ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1347	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you to take the places. I would point out that according to § 3 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the responsibility of the President of the previous legislative period to open the sitting and to carry out the agenda until the President is elected. In this sense, I will open the first and constituent session of the newly elected National Council of XXII – at the due time. legislative period. I can ask you to rise from the squares.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1387	I can now very much welcome all the Members of the House, both those who have been elected to the National Council recently, and those who are now the first elected Members at the beginning of their parliamentary work – a particularly warm welcome to them. With great respect, I welcome our President-in-Office Dr. Kletil, who gives us the honour to attend this meeting. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[President Dr. Thomas Klestil rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] You are aware that we have granted approval that the ORF will be able to film the meeting live until the end of the election of the Bureau. Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2002/2003
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1423	I declare that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 17. In accordance with Article 27(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council the information referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 27(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website legislative period and in accordance with Article 28(1). 1 of the Federal Constitution for its ordinary meeting in 2002/2003. On the basis of this resolution by the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, today's meeting was scheduled. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1447	I can inform the House of the following letter from the Federal Chancellor: ‘To the President of the National Council Mr President. I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 29. ==References== 300,000/2-BEV/2002, held at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2002 (OJ L 330, 29.12.2002, p. November be- and the Federal Government and the State Secretary, in accordance with Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitution, have removed from office. At the same time, under Article 71 of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted me and the other members of the Federal Government with the continuation of the administration and with the Presidency in the former Federal Government. In addition, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the President of the Federal Government has entrusted Mr Franz Morak, State Secretary Dr Alfred Finz, State Secretary Dr Reinhart Waneck as well as Ms Mares Rossmann with the continued exercise of their functions. Best regards Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel.”
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1508	I would like to make this known and ask you to take note of it. For the purposes of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, as set out in Section 3 para. 3, until the final election of the scribes, I call on four Members who have been made known to me to provide this function for the time being: Mr Jakob Auer, Mrs Gabriele Binder, Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pabléund Mr Mag. Werner Kogler. There are no objections. No one is reported to be prevented for today's session. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1556	Before we go into the agenda, I announce that Deputies Dr. Spindelegger, Mag. Mr Schweitzer, ladies and gentlemen, asked for the self-employed motion 1/A (E) tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Mag. Schweitzer concerning the results of the Copenhagen European Council on 12 and 13. It should be discussed in an urgent manner on 1 December 2002. Under the Rules of Procedure, urgent procedure must take place no later than 3 p.m. and may take place at least three hours after the date of the opening of the sitting, i.e. at 12.15 a.m. The urgent procedure will therefore take place after completion of the agenda, unless the time has already been reached at 3 p.m. That means in practice: At the end of this meeting, I assume, the urgent request will be raised, but not during this session, at some point between 12 and 1 p.m. 1. Point I should like to draw attention to some of the points raised by the honourable
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1583	We go into the agenda and arrive at the 1st. Point: It is the fishing of Members. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé, I would ask you to act as a writer. Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé will read the formula for fishing; then the ladies and gentlemen will read it. Members of Parliament on call for name by Mrs Partik-Pablé, who will then be replaced by Mr Auer, who will have to do the fishing with the words “I promise”. In this sense, I should now like to ask Mrs Partik-Pablé to read the formula for fishing and then start calling for the name. – We rise from the squares for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e1613	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” On name call by writer Dr. Partik-Pablé or by the author The Members who are quoted below are making the fishing observation with the words ‘I praise’: Achleitner Elke, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Amon Werner, MBA; Auer Jakob; Auer Klaus Hubert, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Bartenstein Martin, Dr.; Bauer Hannes, Dkfm. Dr.; Baumgartner-Gabitzer Ulrike, Dr.; Bayr Petra; Mulder Ruth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Binder Gabriele; Bleckmann Magda, Mag. Dr.; Bohemia Franz Xaver; Böhmdorfer Dieter, Dr.; Bösch Reinhard Eugen, Dr.; Brader Alfred, Mag. Dr.; Brinek Gertrude, Dr.; Brosz Dieter; Broukal Joseph; Bucher Joseph; Bures Doris; Cap Josef, Dr.; Csörgits Renate; Dobnigg Karl; Dolinschek Sigisbert; Donabauer Karl; Donnerbauer Heribert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Eder Kurt; A Caspar, Dr.; Ellmauer Matthias; Eßl Franz; Fassleven Werner, Dr.; Faul Christian; Fekter Maria Theresia, Mag. Dr.; Ferrero-Waldner Benita, Dr.; Finz Alfred, Dr.; Fischer Heinz, Dr.; Fleckl Anita; Franz Anna; Friend Karl; Frieser Cordula, Mag.Use custom fonts; Fuhrmann Silvia; Gaál Anton; Gahr Hermann; Gartlehner Kurt, Ing.Use custom fonts; Gaßner Kurt, Mag.Use custom fonts; Gehrer Elisabeth; Glaser Franz; Glavischnig Eva, Dr.; Gradwelt Heinz; Grander Maria; Grillic Fritz; Grossmann Elisabeth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Grossruck Wolfgang; Green Forest Kurt, Dr. Gusenbauer Alfred, Dr.; Hagenhofer Marianne; Haidlmayr Theresia; Hakl Karin, Mag.Use custom fonts; Haubner Peter; Chief Herbert, Mag.Use custom fonts; Heinisch-Hosek Gabriele; Heinzl Anton; Hofmann Maximilian, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Hellner Anna; Hornek Erwin; Hoscher Dietmar, Mag.Use custom fonts; Huainigg Franz-Joseph, Dr.; Hütl Günther, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Jarolim Johannes, Dr.; Kainz Christoph; Kaipel Erwin, Ing.Use custom fonts; Captain Norbert, Ing.Use custom fonts; Keck Dietmar; Keusnigg Georg; Khol Andreas, Dr. Kogler Werner, Mag.Use custom fonts; Königsberger-Ludwig Ulrike; Head Karlheinz; Kößl Günter; Krainer Kai Jan; Herbs Günther, Dr.; Crist Hermann; Kukacka Helmut, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sad Werner, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Kuntzl Andrea, Mag.Use custom fonts; Kurzbauer Johann; Lacner Manfred; Long rider Hans, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lap Christine, Mag.Use custom fonts; Lentic Edeltraud; Lichtenberger Evelin, Dr.; Lunacek Ulrike, Mag.Use custom fonts; Machne Helga; Maier Ferdinand, Dr.; Maier Johann, Mag.Use custom fonts; Mainoni Eduard, Mag.Use custom fonts; Mandak Sabine; Marek Christine; Marizzi Peter; Matznetter Christoph, Dr.; Miedl Werner; Mikl- Leitner Johanna, Mag.Use custom fonts; Missethon Hannes, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Reinhold, Dr. Mitterlehner; Molterer Wilhelm, Mag.Use custom fonts; Morak Franz; Moser Gabriela, Dr.; Moser Hans, Mag.Use custom fonts; Murauer Walter; - Muttonen Christine, Mag.Use custom fonts; Neugebauer Fritz; German Erwin, DDr.Use custom fonts; Nuremberg Rudolf; Oberhaidinger Georg; Ollinger Karl; Pack Jochen; Parnigoni Rudolf; Partik-Pablé Helene, Dr.; Pendl Otto; Petrovic Madeleine, MMag. Dr.; Pepper Katharina; Pilz Peter, Dr.; Pirklhuber Wolfgang, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Posch Walter, Mag.Use custom fonts; Prehauser Stefan; Prammer Barbara, Mag.Use custom fonts; Prassl Michael; Prince Nicholas; Prinzhorn Thomas, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Puswald Christian, Dr.; Rada Robert, Dr. Rädler Johann; Rasinger Erwin, Dr. Rauch-Kallat Maria; Reheis Gerhard; Rest-Hintering Heidemarie; Riener Barbara; Riepl Franz; Rosary Barbara; Rossmann Mares; Sburny Michaela; Angry Erika; Shashing Beate; Scheibner Herbert; Scheuch Uwe, Dipl.-Ing.Use custom fonts; Scheucher-Pichler Elisabeth, Mag.Use custom fonts; Arbitrary Peter; Schiefermair Notburga; Schöls Alfred; Schönpass Rosemarie; Shopf Walter; Schultes Hermann, Ing.Use custom fonts; Kussel Wolfgang, Dr.; Sweezgut Johannes; Schweitzer Karl, Mag.Use custom fonts; Sieber Norbert; Silhavy Heidrun; Sima Ulrike, Mag.Use custom fonts; Spindelberger Erwin; Spindlegger Michael, Dr.; Stadlbauer Bettina; Stadler Astrid; Steibl Ridi; Steier Gerhard; Steindl Konrad; Stoisits Teresa, Mag.Use custom fonts; Strasser Ernst, Dr.; stupid Günter, Dkfm. Dr.; Tancsits Walter, Mag.Use custom fonts; Drink Joseph, Mag. Dr.; Trunk Melitta, Mag.Use custom fonts; Turkovic-Wendl Ingrid; Van der Bellen Alexander, Dr.; Constellation of Friedrich; Walch Maximilian; Walther Heidrun; Wimmer Rainer; Winkler Josef, Ing.Use custom fonts; Wittauer Klaus; Wittmann Peter, Dr.; Woeinger August; Wolfmayr Andrea, Dr.; Worm Gisela, Mag.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2293	That's the end of the fishing draw. Has anyone been left out? - That's not the case. I'm just making sure that's what happened before. Ladies and gentlemen! You have committed yourself through the performance of the vow to the law-reliance and conscientious exercise of your function, and as a member of the National Council for your future work, I can wish you all the good and good luck and great joy. ==References== We have dealt with this item on the agenda. 2. Point Election of the President, the Second President and the Third President
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2327	We're coming to the 2nd. Point: This is the election of the President, the Second President and the Third President of the National Council. We have debated this under one. There are proposals for a written vote, which I announce as follows: The proposal for the election of the President of the National Council is presented to Mr Dr. Andreas Khol, the proposal for the second President's election, is on the part of Dr Heinz Fischer, and there are two proposals for the election of the Third President: The proposal of the club of the Austrian Freedom Party is based on Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, and the proposal of the Green Club is to Mrs Mag. Terezija Stoisits. In line with the Presidential Conference, I propose that we conduct a debate on all three proposals in common. This requires the approval of the House. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – That is unanimously decided. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2403	We have also discussed what time we want to hold this debate. As a result, it was agreed that according to Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure, we would propose a block speaking time of 20 minutes each, with 20 minutes for one or two speakers of a political group, but not more than two speakers. Is there any objection to this agreement regarding block-by- Text Time? This is not the case. Then we'll do that. We are now going into the debate. Mr Schüssel is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2433	Mr President! Mr President of the National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As the first act in the new legislative period, the High House elects the Bureau of the National Council and thus the highest offices in our state. These functions have been in the hands of individuals in the past legislative period, who have filled them well and responsibly in the interests of the state and also in the interest of Parliament, and I would like to thank them very much at this point, on behalf of the Austrian People's Party Heinz Fischer, Thomas Prinzhorn and Werner Fassleven. [[General condolences.]] At the same time, I would also like to thank all those Members of the National Council who have been expelled, who have been part of the House for many years and who have brought in their work, their ideas, their imagination, their political commitment, and we also very much welcome the new Members in our midst. I am particularly pleased that among them are representatives of all generations and that, above all, many young Members are in our midst today. ==References== In November, there was a marked set-aside in Austria, and many Austrians have also expressed the desire to continue the reform course of recent years, to put the common foreign and security policy on the part of Austria, but at the same time to make a determined and non-discriminatory progress towards each other. The Austrian People's Party has won clearly – hundreds of thousands have chosen us for the first time, many have re-elected us – and I would like to say at this point to the electorate, to the spectators and spectators who are watching us in this parliamentary debate, that with this clear mission, which has brought an incredibly great success to us, we have not expected to deal with this success carefully and cautiously. I know very well that this entails a great responsibility to lead our country quietly and safely into a not at all easy future. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria stands well today compared to other countries because we have repeatedly faced the necessary problems. At the same time, however, there are also great challenges ahead of us: European politics, for example, brings the historical enlargement of the Union by ten new Member States – in 16 months this will take place – back to the centre of the periphery, and we must and want to take an active interest in this opportunity: for the benefit of people, businesses and employees. The international economy requires us to continue the measures started to stimulate growth and increase employment. In view of the strained economic situation, however, we also need to take measures to keep our social security systems stable and financially in the future, especially the pension and health systems. In order to maintain peace within and beyond our borders, it is necessary to strengthen the functioning security institutions – Gendarmerie, Police, Federal Army, Rescue Services. In solving all these questions, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has a very important role to play, and all of us, ladies and gentlemen, have the responsibility that has been delegated to us by the voters, to the best of our knowledge and conscience, because in democracy, Parliament is the best place for the parties to fight and win the best solutions to the problems of our country – in the positive sense. I am glad that at the beginning of this legislative period, Parliament is from the outset undisputed as the only real place of political debate and that the pressure from other places has shifted, which is important. That's living democracy! Ladies and gentlemen! There are today constituencies for the first, for the second and for the third President of the National Council. In this context, it is the parliamentary rule, the parliamentary custom, the use, something very, very important for us – I said at the beginning of the last legislative period. The corresponding rule of play, which has been in force for over 20 years, is that the strongest party is the First President, the second strongest group has the right to make a proposal for the Second President, the third strongest group for the Third President. The ÖVP accepted this rule when, after the last election, it was very, very painful for us, the third strongest group, and we naturally feel committed to this rule of play as the strongest group in this House. I therefore propose to you, on behalf of the People's Party, the role of First President Andreas Khol. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Andreas Khol is an experienced, profiled, and passionate advocate of parliamentary democracy. He has been a member of the House since 1983, and he has proved in all these years that he has really learned parliamentarianism from the ground up, and is now certainly one of the best experts of the Rules of Procedure, but also of parliamentary practices in all political groups. He was sometimes known as a “Häuptling Sharp tongue. ” Many have appreciated this – the rapporteurs, but also the House. He will now have a different function when he is elected. It is quite clear that, from the hour of his election, Andreas Khol will be fully committed to this other function for the House, for all political groups, for the recovery of parliamentarianism – just as Heinz Fischer did before him. I think that for the whole House, for all political groups, Andreas Khol will also be a strong advocate to the government of parliamentarianism and parliamentary uses and practices. I would therefore ask and ask you to give Andreas Khol your confidence in the election as the First President. He deserves it, he won't let you down. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The People's Party will, of course, also support Heinz Fischer's election as Second President. I would also like to thank him sincerely on behalf of my group for continuing his work – although he is no longer First President will be – that he should be a member of the Presidency and that he will be the second President. If someone does, then this also shows how highly his appreciation of parliamentary work is. Putting yourself in the service of democracy here is a very important signal. I've known Heinz Fischer for a very long time. Many, many years ago, we were club secretaries, group secretaries. He's been elected to the House a little earlier than I did. We have taken a long political path together. We have often stood in very different positions, have had different views. – This has not lessened human respect and the professional respect that Heinz Fischer enjoys with me and my group – I am sure to be able to speak for my group as a whole. We will therefore be happy to support this choice. [[General condolences.]] The same applies to the election of the Third President. On the basis of the strength of the political groups, the Liberal Party is entitled to the election proposal. Thomas Prinzhorn has been the second National Council President over the past three years, and he has managed this office prudently and wisely. He has our full support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I hope, and I hope that, by supporting all the candidates as much as possible, we will make it visible to the Bureau at the beginning of the new legislative period, that we will set a sign that we want to work for Austria, for which people in our country want to work, and that we will give Parliamentaryism a particularly high priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2563	We are continuing the debate. The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary time limit: about 10 minutes. The remaining speaking time of the ÖVP is 11 minutes. Please, Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2582	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all the retired members of the National Council very much for their commitment to Austrian democracy and to Parliament at the same time as those who led the Presidents during the last legislative period. I would particularly like to thank the divorced First President of the National Council, who held this post for twelve years, who, as I mean, took great care of it and who became the epitome of a President of Parliament. – Heinz Fischer, thank you on behalf of the Social Democrats! [[General condolences.]] I am also pleased that many new Members are present in the House. This is a good sign for Austrian democracy. If there and there it is said that there is little change in the politics of the personalities and everything remains the same, then I must say: It is precisely the composition of this National Council that there has been a very large exchange, not only because of the change in strength, but also in the individual political groups. Parliament today is a renewed Parliament, and the Austrians have voted on 24 December. It made a very clear contribution in November. I would like to welcome all the new colleagues from all the political groups to Parliament and look forward to good cooperation during the next legislative period. [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We face major challenges – major challenges arising from the international situation and also from the conditions of Austria itself. The international economy is in a difficult situation. We cannot hope that economic solutions will result from the start of the economy in other parts of the world. We are on our own in many areas. Therefore, in the coming years, it will be very central to the contribution we can make to making to the economy taking on a greater dynamic that we stop the rise in unemployment, thus giving more Austrians the opportunity for employment, and thus also making a decisive contribution to the continued financing of social security systems in our country. Hard work is ahead of us – let's do it together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Our playgrounds are not very large. The 2003 budget will have some distance to the zero deficit or to a balanced budget, and thus the economic budgetary margin is limited. If these spaces are limited, because all the parties, including in the election debate, have come to know that we want to maintain and develop budgetary stability, this means that we have to take big initiatives and ask ourselves very specific questions: What is to become stronger in Austria? In which area do we need more expenditure and more commitment? For which areas of our lives should we be more efficient and economical? I believe that, in view of this international competitive situation in which we are located, it is urgently necessary that we not only talk about it: How can we secure pensions for today and for the future?, but when we talk about it, we also need to make it clear that we want to increase pension security and pension justice and that, therefore, Austrian pensions should be dependent on the employment situation in our country and not speculation on international stock markets. To cooperate in such a reform is essential! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A society with a higher life expectancy – forecasts mean that our sons and daughters who are born today may be 90 or 95 or 100 years old – means that we will have to deal with a changed society, and that means that we have to provide more resources for the health care of our society than in the past. An ageing society, a society with people with higher life expectancy must change priorities in our country. The aim of all the reforms we are considering must be that in Austria, health care should not be dependent on the income of a single person, but that we try to guarantee health care for all – no matter how high the income of the individual may be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are always countries we compare with. If you want to represent the balance sheet positively, you compare yourself with those countries that work less well than we do. If you look forward, you should compare yourself with those countries that make it better than we do. If today it is recognised that spending on research and development represents the real wealth security of our country, then we must measure ourselves with those countries that are far ahead of us in this area. Therefore, I consider it a major challenge for the next legislative period to introduce reforms that will allow us to make more resources available for research and development, in order to ensure that Austria's wealth and its population are not only present today but also in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Many of those reforms that are necessary will require a broad majority in the Austrian National Council. That is why it should be a living and constructive Parliament, a Parliament trying to deal with the major challenges together, even though there are different ideas on the way to the solution. It will play a crucial role in this, with what care and wisdom the President of the Austrian Parliament is trying to organize our work. We Socialists are about the uses and practices of the Austrian Parliament. Even though Mr Klubobmann Khol has not always made us very happy with his speech as a Member, we acknowledge that the Austrian People's Party as the strongest party has the right, the First President to nominate. I assume that Mr Khol will continue to exercise this office with great care – I will give him an advance of confidence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In democracy it is like this: The strongest party is the first and the second strongest party, the second president. Even though it may not be so easy for Heinz Fischer personally to vote for the second President after twelve successful years as President of Parliament, it is, I believe, a profit for all of us that Heinz Fischer's rich experience will also be available to us in the coming years and that he will bring in in the presidential all his experiences, which we have all appreciated together in the last 12 years. That is why Heinz Fischer is the candidate of the Social Democrats for the Second President, and I am seeking your support. [[General condolences.]] Even if the decision of the Freedom Party, who is to be its candidate for the Third President, was disputed within the party, we respect the decision made by the Freedom Party: Thomas Prinzhorn, second president in the last legislative period, I think, has tried to be a good second president. I cannot make any accusations about his presidency either. There is therefore nothing against the fact that we remain with the Usance to assign the third strongest party to the position of the Third President. I will support Thomas Prinzhorn's candidate for this function. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will still have a number of issues to consider today. However, I would like to say one at the beginning of this legislative period, especially because it is not yet clear how the future Austrian Federal Government will be composed. Today, as social democrats, we have tabled a request that in the future, in the Austrian Parliament, the establishment of investigation committees should be a minority right. No matter who is in the opposition or who is in the government: I would like to see this initiative supported, because a Parliament needs strong control rights, a Parliament must be alive if it really wants to deal responsibly with the government. I would therefore be pleased if we could reach consensus on this question, even before there is a form of government, so that effective control of the executive in the Austrian National Council is possible. Support Let us now take steps towards an effective and efficient Parliament in the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2712	Ladies and gentlemen! It remains a speaking time of 9 minutes for the SPÖ Group. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2733	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With today's fishing by the ladies and gentlemen of the XXII. GP has begun a new hour of the Austrian Parliament. ==References====External links== In November of this year my group suffered a painful loss, but it is unmistakable that the majority of Austrians still want a continuation of the reform path for Austria and in the interests of Austria. I would like to start with the XXII. The legislative period with the previous three Presidents, with you, Mr President Dr. Fischer, to the Second President Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand the Third President Dr. Werner Fassleven, as well as all the retired colleagues for those in XXI. I would like to thank you very much for your work on the legislative period. [[General condolences.]] On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank all the Members of the National Council for their good cooperation. In the interests of all Austrians, signal the legislative period. With the election of the Bureau of the Austrian National Council, the guardians of the Austrian Federal Constitution are elected alongside the Federal President and the Constitutional Court. The Presidents of the National Council are of particular importance in their role as guardians of the Constitution, especially at a time when government formation is still outstanding and where it is quite possible that the options in this House will also give rise to a government which has a large majority of four-fifths in this Parliament and therefore has all constitutional possibilities to change that state. For more than two decades, it has been a good tradition in this House that the First President is put by the strongest vote group in the Austrian Parliament. We therefore recognise the candidate of Klubobmann Dr. Andreas Khol for the position of the First President of the National Council not only, but as a liberal political group we will support the election of Dr. Andreas Kholin as well as the function of the First President of the National Council. It was unmistakable, dear Andreas, that in all the years in which we have both heard this House, we have personally represented very different positions. But for me as the former Third President of this National Council, it was also unmistakable that you were always on the side of the guardians of the Constitution and of parliamentarianism. Therefore, your candidate is a good candidate and is supported by us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is also worth noting for my group that the candidate of the current First President Dr. Heinz Fischer – who has held the position of the First President in the Austrian National Council for more than a decade – is given a clear signal of continuity and the continuation of traditions in this House for the position of the Second President of the Austrian National Council. Together with my group, I will expressly support the candidate of the Socialist Group for the Second President of the National Council. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We liberals have with Dipl.-Ing for the election of the Third President of the National Council. Thomas Prinzhornden proposed current Second President of the National Council. We're using Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn – as I am grateful to the two previous speakers of the House’s strongest and second strongest political group – referred to a president who during the past legislative period, in the XXI. GP, in its capacity as second President of the National Council. Moreover, we, with this candidate, like the Social Democratic Group, are also relying on tradition and continuity in the leadership of the Austrian National Council Bureau, despite the painful loss of vote we had to take. Ladies and gentlemen! The public may often smile at certain traditions in the House, but in difficult hours of parliamentarianism it has proved to be true that the strongest vote, the strongest vote and the strongest voting group in the House have been supported by the majority of the Austrian National Council in their proposal. The Bureau of the National Council as the guardian of the Constitution and the word of parliamentarianism in Austria are important to us liberals. We mean that we're with the candidate of Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn proposed an excellent personality for election, for he proved by his management in the last legislative period that he was not only obliged to parliamentarianism and constitutional functions, but also fulfilled them as best possible and according to best knowledge and conscience. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria faces difficult decisions. The world economic situation has been markedly saddened in recent years. In spite of the pre-Christmas period in the Christian countries, the international media report serious efforts and fissures in the Middle East. Many people in Austria are trembling about their workplace, and the elderly people in our country are worried about their health and nursing care. We're in the XXI. The legislative period ensures that, through savings in the government budget, we today have the opportunity, in compliance with the Maastricht criteria, to provide important additional incentives for the future of this country, important incentives to secure jobs in Austria and to reduce unemployment to the extent that it is hoped that full employment will come back soon. But we must also not overlook the fact that a small country like Austria, with all its budgetary measures, is only able to strengthen the initial structural boosting effects, but is unable to focus on the international trend in a decisive way as an internal country. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the future of this country is so important at this time when we are all still in exploratory discussions on government education that, despite a painful electoral situation, my group has rightly decided not to evade responsibility for cooperation in this state in the interests of all Austrians, but to feel obliged and ready for this cooperation. We believe that we have the good work of XXI. The legislative period, but also the problems still arising from the previous legislative periods, will also force in the future to reorganise this state and to continue a healthy economic course in the interests of all Austrians. We are willing to accept this task and to make this announcement. We are facing the opening of Eastern Europe. In particular, my ministry has had many contacts with the future European partners in the social field, but also in the health field over the last two years. Therefore, there may be no one here in this Chamber as qualified as I am to talk about the fact that in future we will see a significant change in Europe, particularly in the social and health sectors. The countries in the east of us are still much worse in these two areas than the Republic of Austria, and therefore it will be important to maintain the security of our economic location, the safeguarding of our excellent health system, the safeguarding of the backbone of the Austrian economy, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, in such a way that we also operate in the XXII. GP and the following legislative periods will be among the richest countries in Europe, among the most flourishing and prosperous countries in Europe. We have important challenges and projects ahead of us. The Austrian National Council will be called not to look at these projects with the glasses of the parties, but to regulate and carry out them with the glasses of the State's necessity. My group, ladies and gentlemen, will be ready to do so, and I wish the new National Council for XXII. The legislative period is a great success and good thing! I can ask you all, our candidate Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn during the election of the Third President of the National Council – following the good tradition since 1983 – to support and participate in the election. Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2873	The remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is 10 minutes. Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2896	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I can say that the honourable Members are allowed to speak. In accordance with Article 33 of the Rules of Procedure, Kogler and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have requested the establishment of a committee of inquiry in connection with the operations of the so-called catch-hunting vessel post-purchase. In addition, the five Members' request for a debate on this request has been made. This desire must be borne in mind. The structure of the debate is subject to § 57a of the Rules of Procedure, that is, Mr Kogler, who will justify the motion for a resolution for 10 minutes, and then each group will have a speaking time of 5 minutes in the order of its strength. For the time being, § 57b of the Rules of Procedure shall apply, i.e., the debate shall take place after completion of the debate on the urgent request, but no later than 3 p.m. Mr Van der Bellen is next spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e2929	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== In fact, November 2002 has brought about a significant shift in relative power relations, we all know that, among other things, we also have a change in the seat rules in this House. I am glad for the Greens that we occupy a few more places. I'm looking forward to new neighbours, I say that quite openly. Some colleagues from the S & D party, as it were, are hospitating in our wings. – Welcome to the Club! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Through the passage and partly further above, some colleagues have new neighbours in the form of representatives of the Freedom Party. Here too – no reservations at all! I can still remember when I came to Parliament eight years ago, I also sat down on this passage, I think, somewhere further back there, and my colleague was on the other side of the corridor, I think you are, Mr Schweitzer. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Was it okay!]] - We've had a little bit of a het from time to time, haven't we? - Yeah, okay. The main issue today is, of course, the item on the agenda 2, the election of the Presidents. The Uzancen – these famous uses of the High House; I think, too much to say, that the most powerful party, the Austrian People's Party, can propose to the President of the National Council, which is nevertheless to be elected by the absolute majority of the Members of this House. I do not want to underestimate these uses – I would like to stress this – because they have in different ways With regard to advantages: They give a certain degree of security in the process, in the practices, in the rules of the game, even they have the capacity, at least at times, to represent a certain minority protection, against the fact that the majority of the House, however it may be designed, passes over the respective minority. But as it stands in politics, there are always pros and counters, and the counter in this case is the fact that Mr. Khol, of course, is a member of the ÖVP and therefore a member of the most likely – with almost 100 percent probability – current and coming government party, and therefore a special responsibility will be given to Mr. President, who at the same time belongs to this party. I'll talk later. ==References====External links== On 1 November 2002, Heinz Fischer was elected to the office of the First President. Allow me to refer briefly. Heinz Fischer was generally a fair and exemplary President of this House. Of course, we did not always agree with everything, but today is not the time to deal with small things. As has been said, we found this presidency to be exemplary. This is what all my colleagues in the Green Club feel. This is not entirely self-evident. Heinz Fischer did not so to speak as an example of heaven, even as President, he was once a clubman with the Social Democrats. I didn't experience this time, but how I heard Heinz Fischer as a clubman as well as the other clubmen also engaged in party and in the interest of the Social Democrats. I suppose that's every clubman. But he has changed in this office of the First President. There was a second, as I mean, incisive story, and that should already be emphasized: When Heinz Fischer was elected during the last legislative period, namely in 1999, he was a member of a government party, the then Chancellor's Party. In February 2000, he was a member of an opposition party, and if I am not mistaken, correct me, Mr. Khol, if I am wrong! – it is unique throughout the history of the Second Republic that the President of the National Council is a member of an opposition party. Yes: It worked! It is not necessary – you should remember that for the future too! – that the President of the National Council is a member of a government party in all his full power. It has worked with Heinz Fischer as a social democrat and with it oppositional deputies shiny. I think this experience is very good, good for parliamentarianism, that the President of Parliament, who is not and cannot be a means of fulfilling the government, but at the same time cannot operate fruition against the government, can perfectly perceive Parliament's interests in cooperation with the government parties in this difficult situation. I have repeatedly found that the President has a wealth of powers from the law. Mr Khol! Please be a little careful, I'll warn you now. I trust you to be, too. The President as a consensus conference where you try to make consensus – nice and good! We have almost always succeeded in establishing consensus, but if it does not last, then the President could do all he could. For example, I remember an anecdote. Was it not the last time we had major problems again in 1999 to define the seat rules? That is where the President, Heinz Fischer, threatens us to make the seat regulations alphabetically if the four parties do not agree. – By the way, that has worked! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I will also remember Heinz Fischer's peculiarity to avoid, as far as possible, prejudize, which I consider to be a totally hopeless undertaking. But with every decision he makes, he says: “unprejudicial” – even if it conforms to the Rules of Procedure! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I did it once – I think that is a famous and still unique case – to make an actual correction on my own. Mr Khol helped me in terms of content at the time. I had claimed – the context doesn't matter – that something would be from Shakespeare. There were long debates as to whether that was true at all, and Mr. Khol then informed me and said that it was Schiller. Then I made an actual correction, but because it was so strange, I went to the President before and said that I wanted to make an actual correction, but I'm going to correct myself. – This triggered large foreheads, large foreheads and leaves in the Rules of Procedure, and it was then approved “unprejudicial”. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a secret choice. I wonder how the other clubs can certainly know who's voting like that. I mean, we are still in the National Council, where freely elected Members are sitting, who in secret elections elect the Presidents. [[Lively congratulation with the greens.]] We have emphasized this in the Green Club, and everyone and every Member is free to vote on how they or they think it is right. Apart from that, I assume with some certainty that most greens – I express myself carefully now, out of respect for my club – will choose Heinz Fischer, out of respect for the person. I emphasize, out of respect for the person, and – sorry! – not because the Social Democrats have proposed him. For the office of the Third President, we propose Terezija Stoisits. Everyone knows Teresa Stoisits. She's a long-standing, experienced Member. If I am not mistaken, it has been working in the Austrian Parliament for 12 years. She is known for her role as a judge and as a minority speaker of the Greens. She is the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights. She has not only made friends in her commitment, we all know that in this house. But we do not sit here for this either, that we are only making friends, but we are going back and forth because of our political positions also opponents and opponents. Last but not least, I think and the green club believes it is right and appropriate to have a president in it again. My memory is not very good, but I don't think you need the five fingers of one hand to count the presidents of this House. Two, I think, have been there in the past, in now 57 years of the National Council since 1945. – That is very modest, ladies and gentlemen! Nor is it about quoting the Uzances in this case at the office of the Third President of the National Council. The First President, who is indeed powerful if he wishes, if he can; the Second and Third are not. It is about cooperation with the Presidents, of course it is about the Presidency, it is about trying to control the Bureau's passion somehow, which usually succeeds. These are all important things, but I do not think that they are right in this case. The Greens differ precisely by a mandate from the liberals. – I believe it is perfectly legitimate to set up a candidate for the Third President’s office from the Greens, just like in the past, but now very special. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now to Mr. Khol. There is no question that the ÖVP offers its most prominent, most important and exciting parliamentarians of recent years here for the office of the First President. That, I think, is completely out of dispute. We know Mr. Khol as a long-term clubman, but we also know him – and this is especially true of the Greens – as coordinator of the blue-black government. We know you, Mr Khol, as coordinator of the clubs: the black club with the government, but above all also the ÖVP club with the club of the liberals. You and Westenthal will somehow go into the story purely optically. That's still in our minds. - That was your job. You made him good. Politically, of course, we were on the other side of the fence. There have been enough occasions when we've gotten into each other's hair. There are conflicts at the political level... – Well, you still have some hair, and I also have some hair. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] That's all right. It's enough for conflicts, Mr. Khol. This blue-black manager is in our head. It is true that people usually change even more with the change of office, but reservations in this direction still exist. In spite of this, our personal relationships – now I mean you and me very personally and not my club – were not bad. When I started out in Parliament eight years ago, I had exactly the same stress on speeches as he did, I think every newcomer in Parliament has, and I can well remember that in the first few months, when I held something here at the speaker's desk, my colleague Khol, from me to this day, was somehow helpful to me that he did not give any unpleasant calls of call and did not try to confuse me, but, on the contrary, was somehow supportive. I mean, that's what you're going to register! Anecdotically, I appreciate my taboo speech, my wrath about the Illiberality and the horrors of the tobacco novels of that time, which still enrags me today. I went out to the speaker's desk at the time, and Khol said for inventive reasons: “The Van der Bellen is a failed person.” – I don’t know how he came upon it. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I said from the speaker's desk: “Thank you... However, I am not speaking as a g’sheer person now, but as a smoker.” – These were so small things that were helpful to the newcomer in this Parliament. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the Agg. Dr. Khol.]] I have already said sufficiently publicly what qualities I value on Mr Khol. I don't think I need to repeat that today. I hope that you will register, Mr. Khol, that, although you are a member – of course – of the Austrian People's Party, the ÖVP will be a government party in the coming years, but the president's office is not that of the ballhouse square's agent, but something else. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I do not doubt that you have good intentions, but you know what the good intentions are and what ways are paved with them. I hope that you will carry out and carry out these purposes if they are good and that you will resist the temptations that will undoubtedly come upon you. You see: I assume that you will be elected – of course. I would say, after many discussions with my colleagues, regardless of the voting cell and the secret of the vote, that: You will receive some vote from Greens as a advance of confidence, and you will not receive some vote from Greens because they are still in reserve. But the conditions can also change. I wish you all the best now! I would like to have a good cooperation within and outside the President, Mr Khol.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3082	The remaining speaking time of the green club is 5 minutes. The wording “without prejudice” at the actual correction was justified, because if Mr Van der Bellen now spoke of an actual correction in order to correct the wording “then” he would not receive the word for an actual correction. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mrs Rauch-Kallat. The clock is set to 15 minutes. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: We only have more than 11!]] The Federal Chancellor spoke only 5 minutes. [[Abg. No, nine!]] I apologize. At the beginning, there was a problem with time taking. They told me here, five minutes. [[Abg. Smoking call: (on the way to the speaker's desk) I also take 15!]] I'm correcting for a remainder of 11 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3153	High house! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank the separate Bureau of the National Council very much for its good cooperation and excellent presidency, but also the First President also for his second president and the Second President for the new position as third President and, above all, to thank our third President Werner Fassleven very much for his excellent presidency in this capacity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, however, also offers an opportunity to make a short decision on the location at the beginning of a legislative period and to ask: Where is Austria today? – Austria is well placed at the beginning of this legislative period, and this is not natural, because we have difficult years in the world economic context behind us and certainly also difficult years ahead of us. Austria, however, has been able to claim itself perfectly in the last three years, since the beginning of the last legislative period in 1999. How could this be proved better than through international rankings? – According to the World Competitiveness Report 2002, Austria is in the international position as in the previous year in competitiveness 18. We are in position 15 in the liberal economic environment. This means that, compared with 123 countries, Austria improved from 28th place to 13th place compared to 1995. Austria takes place in the international competitiveness of the business location. This is also an improvement of five places since 1999: In 1999, we took place 18th, in 2000 place 15, 2001 place 14 and now, in 2002, we are in place 13. – Thank you, Wolfgang Schüssel and Martin Bartenstein, for this excellent performance! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Austria is in second place among the countries most closely linked to the world, 9th place, and 6th place among the countries which show a special international political commitment. – Thank you, Wolfgang Schüssel and, above all, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, for this ranking! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Austria is – and we are incredibly proud of that – the world's top quality of health infrastructure, air quality, personal safety and quality of life. – Thank you very much to all the ministers, members of the government, but also to all the Members of this House who have contributed to this! Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We were particularly proud that Austria has not only cut off excellently in the PISA study, but that we have landed first with Finland in an international assessment of the public schools in Austria, which was carried out by 80 managers. – Thank you many times, Elisabeth Gehrer! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] Thank you, of course, also all the teachers who helped! Thanks also to all the officials of the Interior, the Gendarmerie, the police who made this country a safe country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also want to maintain this position, even if we know that this will not be quite easy, because we will face major international challenges as well as nationally in securing our excellent health system and our excellent social system. We therefore want to continue to take this competition very seriously, but at the same time to benefit from the next legislative period, especially in order to focus on social matters. The next year, 2003, we have the “International Year of the Disabled”, we have the “International Year of the Family” in 2004 and it is a very special concern of the Austrian People’s Party to settle social cohesion between generations and genders at the top. Ladies and gentlemen! We would particularly like to highlight the needs, concerns and, above all, the legitimate concerns of disabled people or people with special needs in this legislative period. I am therefore particularly pleased that, with Franz-Joseph Huainigg, we were able to win a affected, committed person to work in this legislative period for the concerns of disabled people here and beyond. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am convinced that, as in the past, we will succeed in achieving good results across political borders, especially on disability issues, and I very much hope that we will succeed in bringing about the gender equality law for disabled people, which has been envisaged for many years. But it is also a very special concern to us, especially as regards the families, to continue to work on our work for Austria's families during this legislative period. In the past legislative period, we have brought the childcare allowance for three years in Austria to the top of the world in family promotion, and it will be a special concern for us to continue to work on it intensively during this legislative period. It is very important for us that we give parents more time for children in a constantly changing world. It is particularly important to us that the compatibility of family and profession is a matter of course not only for fathers, but also for mothers and that children should not be too short. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] We will therefore pay particular attention to supporting parents in their difficult task and providing them with as much help as possible in the education of their children. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is also very important to me that this legislative period is borne by a fairness between the sexes and the generations. As a women's politician, as a woman's spokesman for my party, I am particularly concerned that those disadvantages that exist in our society in reality – no longer in law, but in reality – will be intensely reduced during this legislative period. In this area, I would particularly like to see a very clear development of income shears between women and men and the career opportunities of women in this legislative period. It is therefore my concern that gender mainstreaming – an expression of which no one knows what it really means; in principle it is the gender-related approach of each legal measure – will also find a corresponding precipitation in this legislative period. It is also important to me, however, that there is fairness, in particular between generations, that, especially in the case of pensions, there is a crucial need for further work. We know: Those who want to preserve good must change some things. . I am glad that during the last legislative period we have succeeded in taking a first very important step towards ensuring pensions, and I am glad that we are with the youngest and oldest Members in this House – Andreas Khol is Vice-President of the Senior Confederation – also within our group have this generational justice. I wish me fairness between the city and the countryside, fairness between the social partners and, above all, a good eco-social market economy. Ladies and gentlemen! We offer you fair and good cooperation. I hope that we will also be able to reach agreement on constitutional issues, and I am very glad that we will also meet a long-standing concern in this legislative period: They convinced us; we will also ensure that there is a federal law in the field of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3303	The floor was reported as next Mr. Dr. Cap. The clock is set to 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3321	Mr President. High house! I have to work through the mists of the government incense at the speaker's desk here. It was a little much! I understand that the Secretary-General of the EIA has produced himself here after this election outcome and has received many, many thanks, but this is not really in a context with the agenda that we have to deal with today. [[Call at the ÖVP: But that was not necessary now!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was unnecessary now!]] On the other hand, I would like to focus on what is the subject of today's meeting. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It was an election campaign, but it's already over. That's what I wanted to say, otherwise nothing at all! There have never been as many new Members in Parliament – and I am already taking part in an Angelobung several times now – as many new Members as this time. You have to be worthy of that! The Social Democrats are 21 – 11 men and ten women. There have never been so many new Members here! I remember my first day here. It's actually similar every time, it's almost like a starting school mood: You're a little excited and wondering, How is this going to happen?, and then you are confronted with many mischievous things that exist in Parliament and which you have to get used to. There are uses and habits and traditions – that will be what the many young Members, women and men, will get to know here, the fight for the places of speech, the fight for committee membership and, above all, the problem: How can I give my electorate in my constituency the best way to convey my work? This is often also a matter of media coverage, and we therefore propose the following: In the future, Parliament and parliamentary work should be made more transparent. The Committee meetings should be made public – in principle public, also accessible to television – so that voters can simply see what we are doing here and get it better. This would also be very helpful for the boys who have the problem at the beginning – you will not be the first speaker in a debate, I have to feel it painful at the time – that the voters, if you are not first speakers and the speech is not made on television, ask themselves: Where is he anyway? What's he doing? – That is why, I think, this is certainly also a proposal that might help to make work easier here. You will also realize in your first speeches that there is a habit here not to make calls, but perhaps even to be a little helpful. However, you also have to look at it – that was the case with me the first time – that not everyone listens. But it has improved a little, and it has already increased the willingness to confront the contents here too. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: It depends on your content, whether we listen or not!]] I therefore offer myself as a Ombudsman for all boys – also from the ÖVP! [[General hustle and bustle.]] They should come to me if they have a problem. I'll help them, I'll give them tips! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If they have difficulty in conducting the club, I would especially like to give them advice. If they need ideas for initiatives here in the house, then, I suggest, we just put ourselves together. If you do not know more, there is the possibility of a self-help group – there I am also helpful, no problem. We can certainly achieve an improvement. As far as the problems of the liberals are concerned, I have to say something about my training and my powers. You already have to use experts, which will probably be a little more difficult. Because I mentioned the reform of the National Council earlier: As one who has now been allowed to cooperate in the Presidential and has come to know the fine consensual culture, which has never been characterized by comradery and has never led to the confusion of political differences, but one has tried to organize the work together in a reasonable form for the High House, I must say – I would like to underline what Dr. Gusenbauer said in his speech –: We need to think about how we are strengthening and expanding minority rights here. The balance between opposition and government parties should be improved, especially because the government parties understand themselves primarily as those groups that implement government work here in the House. We have come to know this particularly intensively over the last two and a half years, and that is why we also want to see the possibility here, for example, that a third of the Members can request and set up an investigation committee. It is particularly important that an investigation committee is finally set up on the issue of the acquisition of the warplanes, the "Eurofighter". We'd had him a long time ago, if it had this minority right. However, because there is no minority law and because the two previous and present and probably future government groups do not want it, there is not yet this committee of inquiry. That's bad. Many of those who watch today will be among those who have supported the popular desires of the past. In this context, I would like to refer to the social state's desire to make a request for further consideration during this legislative period. I refer to the Temelín people's desire already forgotten in the FPÖ, as well as the popular desire regarding the warplanes or interception hunters. It is necessary to find a regulation so that the people's desires in the House can no longer be treated after the end of a legislative period. We must find a regulation that, after a change in the legislative period, the people's desires will continue to be the subject of treatment in the House. It should not be so that it was for nothing that many signed these popular desires; signed in the hope that they will be dealt with here in the House and that they will also be taken appropriate steps. We are actually the lawyer of all those who have recently signed so many popular desires. We are concerned that these people's desires can be dealt with here in the High House and that the relevant decisions can be made in the sense of the people's desire operators. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Many of those who have sometimes listened to Question Time here rightly want to see a recovery of Question Time. So there should not be a written question, which the Minister will not answer in writing, but there should really be a question-answer game, it should really be ensured that one can go into it. Finally, only one sentence on the current political situation: Mr. Federal Chancellor and Clubobmann Dr. Schüssel! I understand that one is happy to have won such a election, but after what the previous exploratory talks have essentially done, I have to say: We should take into account a very well-known sentence in the population: Overconfidence rarely does good! We should therefore take this sentence into account because it concerns Austria, Austria's future and not a power poker, power games or other power-political considerations. We should work together and think about what is the best way for this country – especially at this time when the European Union is expanding, especially at this time when so many and often difficult economic questions are to be answered, especially at this time when there must be great reforms, no further sausages and rumblings and rumblings that do not serve this country. In this sense, as an Austrian patriot, I call for a reasonable work in Parliament, a reasonable work for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3411	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. The clock is set to 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3429	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Please allow me to comment on my previous speaker: Mr Cap continued where he ended up at the end of the previous legislative period. He once again played a role that didn't fit in, but we're used to that. Mr Cap! It has been, as I believe, a very successful legislative period that has ended today, a legislative period which was marked at the beginning by extremely difficult conditions, which have not least come about because you have left something that would be so necessary in Austria if difficult times were to be dealt with, namely the basic consensus. That is why at the beginning of my speech I am trying to accept the basic consensus that is necessary when it comes to successfully representing Austrian interests towards others. This is what I urge all of us to do today at the beginning of the new legislative period, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Kallat has already listed many successes of this Federal Government. I can only add that very, very large milestones have also been implemented in the social resort, such as the allowance for all, the decision-making of the ‘new’, which is nothing but the beginning of a comprehensive and urgently needed pension reform, ladies and gentlemen! Or: the general transport plan, the administrative reform, many necessary things were finally addressed. Something was moved in this country. Even though the outcome of the election was so painful for us liberals, it showed us one thing: The way this federal government has begun to go is the right way. That is what I read from this election result, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I too would like to take the opportunity to thank myself as a executive clubman for working with the members of the Presidency. Mr President, Mr Fischer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Fassleven, thank you very much for your very, very good cooperation. I would also like to thank all those who leave the National Council today, but above all our new colleagues for their new tasks very much, very much, success. We will work together to cope successfully with the difficult times ahead of us. If we want to deal successfully with these difficult points, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, then we need the basic consensus on the essential issues raised at the outset. We will discuss even today very important questions relating to Austria, such as a transit solution, including the further procedure in the field of anti-CFC policy. But if we want to move on, ladies and gentlemen, we need a basic consensus. This basic consensus, I believe, should also exist in the forthcoming election. It is parliamentary use that in the election of the President the strongest party is given the First President, the second strongest party the Second President and the third strongest party the Third President, and so we should hold it today and in the future. For me, Andreas Khol is someone whom I met as an enthusiastic parliamentarian, who has repeatedly taken a sharp stand against the FPÖ, starting in 1990. Over time, however, I have come to know many positive qualities that a people's representative should have: Not only the sharp tongue in word and writing, but also the pointed, knowledgeable statements of opinion by Andreas Khol, but above all, what I highly appreciate about him, are true to his principles and his willingness to talk, even after the hardest conflicts. There are two levels on which we can meet each other: on the hard material level, where we are dissociating, and on one of them completely unimpeded friendly level. I especially appreciate that to Andreas Khol. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For me too, an excellent candidate is Heinz Fischer, who became the first President when I was first praised in this House. With Heinz Fischer, of course, as a new parliamentarian, I have not had too big a direct debate, but many things have separated us in terms of content. In the course of the time, when I came forward with a few rows of seats, I also had the possibility of direct discussion with Heinz Fischer. What I appreciated so much about you, Mr President Fischer, was that you have always expressed your conflicts with me in writing that Zettel was brought to me, in which I was informed in writing about your displeasure. I am also aware of this opportunity, Mr President, that I am in favour of the abuse of such a note – it was many, it was, as I mean, 20, 30, 40 such notes over time, and one of them I have misused, Mr President, in every form today. I hope you still accept this late excuse. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But now we want to know what that was!]] It is my concern, Mr President, to thank you for your careful work. I am convinced that you will be a worthy President and you will have a worthy place in the number of the Presidents of this House. I welcome your candidate for the second president's office. Our group will support you. We liberals – I say this to the Greens, also for the future – stood and stand on the occasions in this House and will do so in the future, as did my previous speakers. That is why I would also like to ask you, our candidate Thomas Prinzhorn, who has shown in recent years that he is a careful president to give your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3490	The next and last speaker in this debate is Mrs Petrovic. The clock is set to 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3508	Mr President. High house! Uses are essential for the functioning of a house as the National Council is. I think they are more important and more correct than regulations we have in other top institutions, such as the People's Procuratorate, where an automatic system between party strength and occupation of the office is established. I think it has lost nothing in a modern democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! But Usen – and this is just the fine and valuable thing about it – are not a rigid corset, but they give a certain margin that can be filled out accordingly in the context of political action, within the context of the internal context and, of course, especially in an office that places the person very strongly at the centre. Member Dr. Schüssel – today I am speaking to Dr. Schüssel as a Member – has said in relation to the Third President: There is nothing against the election of Mr Prinzhorn. - Yeah, I think so. I have to say – I have also noted this in public – that beyond all fundamental political differences that exist between the Greens and the Freemans – we see ourselves here as an absolute counterpoint to the programmatic content of the Freemans – ad personam not to say that this office has been exercised fairly and rationally by Members of the Princehorn and, if there have been difficult situations, has handled the scope far. I found that right. That is why I could stress this, it doesn't mean anything about it, but that would be me, and that's too little for us, because the other question would have to be: What does that mean and – even this word has fallen – what are the signs with the candidate or the choice of a person? I think it would be high time for two factions, which are about the same size... – Yes, it is true, a mandate is still in between here, but the order of magnitude is the same. [[Call for the call.]] I would remind the ÖVP that it did not even handle these famous 415 votes in the sense of an automaticism, but if we spoke according to the party strength, then occasionally the ÖVP took second place, occasionally did so to the liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We accepted them!]] That is, you have alternated and made a certain margin possible as part of the use. The same seems to me to be quite possible and quite appropriate to the third Presidency – I hope the third President – of the House. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] First of all, I am delighted that the green club is proposing a woman for this office, and I am particularly pleased that we have for the first time a very clear overhang of women in the Green Group. The newly added Members are all women. That is to say, the 17 green mandates are now exercised by 10 women and 7 men. I think it's also a sign that the greens want to put. In addition, the person of my colleague, Mr Terezija Stoisits, who, as members of the Croatian minority in the Burgenland, is also a sign of the country's colorfulness, for its cultural diversity, is a living sign by her function in this House. In fact, it is even more than a sign that it has always identified itself with human rights and the defence of human rights. I would therefore be very pleased if this House in the Bureau could once again welcome a woman. I welcome the President-in-Office of the House of Marga Hubinek at the gallery and hope that there will once again be a chance with Teresa Stoisits that a woman is represented in the Bureau of the House and has this office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3572	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude this debate. We will now take up the election of the Presidents. It is my desire to make the election of all three presidents in election cells, and I will therefore proceed in this way. Election of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3604	First of all, I would like to remind you that, for the election of the President, there is a proposal for an election on Mr Dr. Andreas Kholvor. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. Under the same provision, the election of the President shall be carried out in secret and with a vote. If we vote in secret with polls and polls, then certain technical preparations are necessary. I would ask you to make these preparations. For this purpose, the session will be suspended very briefly. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3651	Ladies and gentlemen! The preparations are over. I therefore invite you to come back to the meeting room. I'll start the interrupted session again. I ask Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé to stand up as a writer for the name call. Is Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé in the hall? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You still look in the wrong direction!]] – I look in the wrong direction from old habits. Ladies and gentlemen! The voting paper to be used in this election shall be issued by the members of the Parliamentary Directorate, together with Kuvert, after the name's name has been called. Only this official poll can be used for the election. In the election cell, the name of the desired candidate or candidate shall be written on this ballot. After completion of the voting document, it shall be cast into the urn provided in the envelope. I am now seeking the individual Members to accept the Kuverts, then go to the electoral cells and carry out the electoral act in the form now described. I'm looking for the woman's writer for the name call. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3689	Can I ask the House whether all the members of the House have voted and therefore I can declare the vote to be terminated? - That's the case. I hereby declare the vote terminated. I call on the House's officials, who have already been instructed on this matter, to take the vote. The House's scribes have the right to participate as observers in the poll. For the purpose of counting the votes, I interrupt the sitting for the necessary time. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3732	Ladies and gentlemen! I can resume the interrupted session and inform you of the results of the election as follows: 183 votes were cast and 23 of these 183 votes were invalid and therefore 160 votes were valid. The absolute majority of valid votes are therefore 81. There were 130 votes in favour of Mr Khol, the remaining votes on other Members. [[The remaining votes were for Members: Amon, MBA: 1, Dr. Fassleven: 3, Mag. Dr. Fekter: 1, Dr. Fischer: 9, Mag. Friser: 1, smoke-callat: 11, Scheibner: 1, Dr. Kussel: 1, Mag. Stoisits: 1, Dkfm. Dr. Stummful: 1.]] I therefore note that Mr. Dr. Khol was elected President of the National Council. [[Long-term applause with the ÖVP, the SPÖ, the Free and the Green MEPs.]] [[The representatives of ÖVP and the liberals rise from their seats.]] [[Some Members, first of all Abg. Dr. Schüssel, go to Abg. Dr. Khol and congratulate him.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol takes off the white rose infected on the revers of his sac. Dr. Schüssel.]] I'm asking the chosen one if he will accept the just announced choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3796	I accept this choice with humility and joy.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3814	I congratulate the new President on his election. [[New appeal to the ÖVP, the SPÖ, the Free and the Green MEPs.]] Farewell address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3842	Ladies and gentlemen! Before congratulating the newly elected President, whom I have just congratulated, I should like to take over the presidency and continue in the process of completing the agenda, and I may, in a few words, turn to the House as a separate President, following an old parliamentary practice. I would, of course, like to express my thanks for being President of the National Council for more than twelve years. You will be able to understand it somehow, I hope that it is a moving moment for me to leave this office with a certain degree of uncertainty, mixed feelings, because on the one hand, I feel really connected with this function and really do not want to miss a day of parliamentary work, nor do I want to cooperate with parliamentarians, the friendships that can be made at such a time, and on the other hand, because I am really proud and happy to live in a country where this democratic change takes place with such a natural nature, in a way that we can all observe and, like the Austrian public, close to high maturity of our democracy, at least in important moments. That makes me happy, and I'm happy about that. Ladies and gentlemen! I started working in this house almost 41 years ago, exactly on 2nd. In 1962, as a legal adviser to the SPÖ Parliamentary Club. At that time there was a parliament in which Leopold Figl was president – for a few months; he was then replaced by Alfred Maleta – a parliament in which one could get to know Raab and Gorbach, Withalm and Kreisky, Rosa Jochmann and Karl Kummer and many other personalities such as Willfried Gredler, Jörg Kandusch, Emil van Tongel et cetera. These personalities and many others are also in my lasting memory. I was then appointed as the SPÖ's club secretary in 1963. My visa in the ÖVP was Dr. Smejkal, I would almost say that – at least then – legendary Dr. Smejkal. As Parliament's work did not yet develop as it is today, there have been only five employees in all three groups throughout Parliament. When I was appointed a club secretary, I had to introduce myself to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Schärf, for he had a strict eye on Parliament. He was himself in the First Republic of the club, so he wanted to get to know the people who are doing this work. Then a slow expansion began. Erhard Busek came on the ÖVP side, Hannes Androsch on the SPÖ side, and a few years later – because he mentioned it; I think it was 1968 – Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel. That was also an exciting time: ÖVP government alone. At that time, I have already come to know the great importance of political change for democracy. There are political scientists who define democracy as the political system in which the change of majority and power takes place peacefully – not a bad definition, and it says a lot. It is particularly clear that I came to know this in 1970, because the 1966 election result, which was so excellent for the ÖVP, reversed in 1970. In the Bureau of the National Council – President Maleta was President of the House for eight years at that time – it was based on the results of the election of 1st President. In March 1970, which the SPÖ 81 mandated and the ÖVP granted 78 mandates, six mandates were granted to the liberals in the near future to five and six after an election. At that time, in this election of the President of the National Council on 31 December. March 1970, as a club secretary here in the hall, I stood to the left somewhere – I can remember quite accurately; I do not know where Wolfgang Schüssel stood, probably further right – and the change from Maleta to Waldbrunner has been performed very smoothly. [[Rejoicing]] President Maleta has taken over the position of the Second President. I've been thinking about this situation a few times in the last few days. I am not going to stop you now with further descriptions of the development of parliamentarianism. I would just like to tell you that, for example, in the 1970s and also in the late 1960s, when there were absolute majority in Parliament, there were clear political differences and nevertheless remarkable personal friendships. At the time when Withalm and Pittermann were clubmen, it was like this: When Dr. Withalm drove to the spa in Montecatini, he said to his Visavis Bruno Pittermann: And you'll be careful that in the 14 days there's no stupidity going on in Parliament! They have been able to rely on each other humanly, and that is remarkable. I myself have had a real and great friendship, for example, with Stephan Koren, the clubman of the ÖVP, and have visited his widow until last, even when she was sick, even when she was in an old age home. Wolfgang Schüssel probably knows that. It's nice to be able to tell you about this. I then became unfaithful to the National Council during my duties as Minister of Science for a number of years, then returned and was elected President in November 1990. I have felt this as a really important, beautiful task and have tried to fulfill it as well as I can. No one can say he didn't make mistakes, but I tried to make it as good as possible. I also had very good cooperation at this time at the Presidential Conference, in fact with all those who have been members of the Presidential Conference since 1990; I do not want to list them individually. ==References====External links== In November, which in turn triggered a major change, came to an election result, which has brought strong changes, as provided for in the law of democracy. And not only do I find no stone out of the crown that I don't have anyway, but I'm happy to congratulate Chancellor Schüssel on his great success in sports. There's a big stake behind it. But I would also like to see the other top candidates, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Mag. Chief, Dr. Van der Bellen, to her incredible great commitment, which she ended up with Not only for their party, but also for the functioning of the parliamentary system, they congratulate and warmly thank them. Thanks a lot. Ladies and gentlemen! If I'm thanking you, I'll start in my closest environment. I'd like to see my office manager, Mrs. Mag. Gaugl very, very thank you very much. I would like to thank my press speaker Bruno Aigner. He's been with me as a press speaker for 27 years. Someone's got to do this to him first. I think it's ready for the book of records when a politician has the same press speaker for 27 years. I would like to thank the Director of Parliament very much, very much, and I would like to say to the new President that he has a very excellent staff at the head of Parliament's administration. This also applies to the Deputy Directors, which applies to the heads of each department. Actually, I like to say it: I thank every individual employee and every single employee in this House for being able to rely on them because they are always available because they are proud of their work in Parliament and because they do good work. As it has already been said today that a President has some kind of political homeland – my home is the SPÖ Parliamentary Club – I would like to thank my closer political family for their friendship, for the nice words that have just been formulated at my address in the last days and weeks. Now I like to turn to my two colleagues Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and Dr. Fassleven. We met today as a Bureau in the early days, because there are always different questions to be resolved. Since, as you hear, I speak to you quite openly and freely from the liver, I say: In the first months, I've had it with my colleague Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn was not very easy emotionally – probably he was not with me too – but we then found a very satisfying and helpful cooperation. I'm happy about it and thank you for it. It was a bit easier for our colleague Dr. Fassleven, because we had already known ourselves much longer before and also worked together as a partner in previous coalition governments. The two colleagues, Mr Fassleven and Mr Prinzhorn, who do not now have the opportunity to take the floor, asked me to thank all the Members of the House very personally, and I do so. Ladies and gentlemen! There are great tasks ahead of us. I look forward to the problems that we now face in the context of the formation of a new federal government. I hope that there will be wise and wise solutions to the interests of our country in this context. I particularly wish the Austrian National Council all the best, that body that I really feel very closely connected and that I am likely to serve in another function, with the view that it is honorable to work in every function in the Bureau. I look forward to this work with joy and interest. In this attitude and with a high regard for our predecessors in the history of parliamentarism and with the request to always respect and uphold the human component in politics, I now wish to give the presidency to the newly elected President Dr. Andreas Khol, and wish him every good again. Please continue, Mr President, with the completion of the agenda. [[The Members rise from their seats and provide long-lasting lively applause.]] [[President Dr. Andreas Khol goes to the Bureau, where he is congratulated by the outgoing President Dr. Heinz Fischer for his election, and takes over the chairmanship.]] [[The divorced President Dr. Heinz Fischer thanked him with a bowing and thanked the clubmen Dr. Gusenbauer, Dr. Van der Bellen, Mag. Main and Dr. Schüssel as well as Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and Dr. Fassleven.]] Statement by the President
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e3965	High house! Just as the parliamentary tradition is that the outgoing President has a parting speech, it is in line with the tradition of this House that the newly elected President gives a speech of departure in which he explains how he intends to design his office which you have delegated to him. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart for this choice. I have clearly received votes from all political camps, from all parliamentary groups, and I thank you for what party president Gusenbauer called the “confidence” advance. I also thank you, as usual, for your brilliant speech, Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen, and for the friendly speech of Mag. The chief who supported my choice on behalf of the Freeman. Ladies and gentlemen! I am looking forward to this cooperation with all of you, with all the political groups in this House. I welcome the newly elected Members – many of them are new here, as we have heard, more than 70 – and wish them good luck and success. I would like to call all of you – I have been here in the House for over 20 years now – to you, the new colleagues: Be proud of this function! It's a wonderful office that has been transferred to you. Be courageous and be diligent! It is a good job to be able to work in this House, the fishing point of democracy. We have great tasks ahead of us. I see this entirely in the light of the discussion we have had. We need big reforms. That is why we need a new government very soon. There will be an intensive legislative period. Together with the Federal Council, the second legislative body here in the High House, we will be called for: with the internal reforms, but also with the enlargement of the European Union, with the reunification of Europe and with the European Constitution, which is underway and which we will all be working through our representatives, through our interest, through the main committee. Ladies and gentlemen! The outcome of the election has given me the existence of this advance of confidence, and I will try to be a President of all the Members of this House and a President of all parliamentary groups. That is why I did not put the white rose, which I wore as a sign of my attitude as a Christian democracy in my suit, into the faithful hands of my friend Wolfgang Schüssel: to show that like Heinz Fischer here above did not wear red cloves on the Bureau, I also do not wear white roses up here, nor will I be a party politician. I assure you that you have an objective office. I know that this is often a difficult task because, as we all know, emotions often go up. I have always admired my predecessors when in the stormy times – I remember the sanctions of unkind thought in 2000, I recall the demonstrations, I recall the debate of the legitimacy of the government – emotions have increased, but the Bureau has always succeeded in holding the Presidency objectively and managing the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, are for me the standard of justice. And we strive for righteousness, for: Iustitia fundamentale regnorum – justice is the basis of all government. Consensus has been announced. In the last legislative period, we have passed 42 percent of all laws in consensus; in the previous legislative period, it was only 29 percent. I will try – I went to Heinz Fischer's school for eight years – to bring about consensus at the presidential conference, the place I call consensus forge. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the working conditions for Members, Heinz Fischer has already told us how this was. When I came to the House, everything that a parliamentarian had was a mailbox – and nothing else! During the time Heinz Fischer led the Bureau, in which Heinz Fischer was President of the National Council, has gone a long way in doing so. Whole generations have taken place there, so to speak, and I will try to further shape it in this spirit. The foreign representation of the National Council is also a major task: precisely as Europe grows together, in the course of the unification with many countries with which we once were in a common state association. Very soon, there will not only be a “house on the ring” but “houses on the ring” – this is also an achievement of the last works. I would like to develop these “houses at the ring” as open houses for what art, what literature, what science, what discussion is, together with you, and make it a place of civil society where the many voluntary organizations, the many volunteers who do more than their duty, can also meet with the representatives of the legislative bodies. Let me briefly outline my objectives in this high office. I am a convinced European, I was a student of Felix Ermacora, whom many of you have still known as Members of this House, and therefore I will strongly support the Europe Convention and the work on a European Constitution. As a Tyrolean, I am a convinced federalist, and therefore it is my concern to work with the Federal Council and with the country days, which I still regard as essential places of democracy in its inventory as essential and irreplaceable: It is also my concern to work with the federal states, for Austria is the sum of its nine federal states. As a South Tyrol, I can also tell you that I have a single request to the House: that I be left to the Presidency of the South Tyrol Subcommittee, the Presidency which I have been allowed to exercise for many years of legislative activity – a committee with which our commitment to South Tyrol is demonstrated. Today, Mag. Chief of the guardians of the Constitution. The Bureau is a guardian of the Constitution; the President of the Federal Republic – whom I respectfully welcome – is another guardian of the Constitution; further, our highest courts. I believe that, as the guardian of the Constitution in this House, we should also take up the idea that a Styrian Federal Council, namely Herwig Hösele, first brought into the debate – Alfred Gusenbauer has taken up this idea in the election debate, Franz Fierler has supported it – that we should just initiate and support an Austria Convention to see through our constitutional development. I have already spoken about the “houses on the ring” and also mentioned the Palais Epstein. I think it should be all our quest to let a “house of history” in Vienna become a reality from the thoughts; not in the Palais Epstein – this is used in the consensus of all political groups for parliamentary purposes – but I believe that we should now come to terms with the question of ‘house of history’, of which we have spoken so much and which all political groups agree on. Ladies and gentlemen! I invite all Members to express their concern, their wishes, suggestions and complaints to me very openly; I would be very grateful for this. Josef Cap, you said today that you are, so to speak, the “Ombudsman of the newly elected”; you I mean, I know you. – I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, I am serious, my door will be open to everyone. Before I finish, I would like to appreciate Heinz Fischer's work. He will continue to keep us in the Bureau, and I thank him for continuing his work in a very noble way – and I think I will still often need his advice. Heinz Fischer, you've been a great president of the National Council. A comprehensive reform of the Rules of Procedure, which has only made it possible for us to reach a modern consultation, has come about under your leadership. You were and are a master of consensus: standing on the firm shores of a convinced social democracy – an ideologically quite firm position that Heinz Fischer had here – he was the master of consensus again and again. Under Heinz Fischer, the working conditions here in the Hohe Haus were fundamentally improved, and under Heinz Fischer the role of the National Council was also strengthened, ladies and gentlemen. When I came to this house, there was no discussion forum in the rooms of this house, there was no exhibition, there was no concert, there was no play. – Today this House is a centre of political, artistic and general discussions. That was the opening of the house by Heinz Fischer! Heinz Fischer was always a convinced social democrat, as I have already said, but also a tolerant humanist – with humor and joke. I believe that the thanks of all the political groups here and today, Mr Fischer, should be expressed to you. [[General condolences.]] [[Divorcing President Dr. Heinz Fischer rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] But I would also like to thank all the Members who have been expelled, and I would particularly like to thank Werner Fassleven as the third President of the National Council – and as a loyal friend. Thank you, Werner Fassleven, for your attitude, for your work and for your example! [[General condolences.]] Thank you all, ladies and gentlemen. Heinz Fischer laid his heart on Georg Posch, the director of Parliament. – Dear Heinz, I can calm you down: His father and my mother were already friends in the framework of the path finder movement in Innsbruck, and I believe that Georg Posch and I also become friends. I thank him because I know how excellent this house has been run and how great the staff are motivated. Thank you very much – and for good cooperation! [[General condolences.]] Thank you all, ladies and gentlemen. Let us go to work together and with God’s blessing! [[General condolences.]] Election of the Second President
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4136	We shall now proceed to the election of the Second President. There is a proposal for an election on Dr. Heinz Fischervor. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this election by means of a vote. I would point out that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. The electoral process is the same as before. I now ask the author, Mrs Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auer will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4190	I'm still asking: Is there any member of the National Council or of a Member of the National Council who has been overlooked or overlooked? – That does not seem to be the case. That is why the vote has finally ended. The officials of the House responsible for this will now vote as before. The meeting will be suspended for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4223	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election. Members cast: 181; of which: 162. The absolute majority of valid votes are 82. On Heinz Fischer, 131 votes were taken. [[General condolences.]] 31 votes were taken by other Members. [[These 31 votes were for the MEPs: Dr. Cap: 3, Dr. Einm: 5, Gaál: 1, Dr. Gusenbauer: 1, Mag. Kuntzl: 1, Marizzi: 2, Mag. Prammer: 10, Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn: 1, Riepl: 1, Arbitrator: 1, Silhavy: 1, Mag. Stoisits: 2, Dr. Strasser: 1, Dr. Wittmann: 1.]] Dr. Heinz Fischer is thus elected Second President of the National Council. I'm asking the chosen one if he accepts the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4281	I thank myself and gladly accept the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4303	I would like to congratulate the honourable Member on his excellent work. Dr. Heinz Fischerfor election and ask him to sit in the Bureau. [[President Dr. Fischer takes place at the Bureau.]] Election of the Third President
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4330	We shall now proceed to the election of the Third President. There's a vote on Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornvor. There is also a motion for a resolution on power. Terezija Stoisitsvor. According to § 87 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall also carry out this vote with votes. Again, I draw attention to the fact that according to § 87 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall also be valid for votes against other electable candidates. Here, too, the electoral process is the same as before. I would ask the author, Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé, to begin with the name call; Mr Jakob Auerwill replace Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé later on. The name call and the vote will take place now.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4379	The name call is over. Is a Member or a Member in plenary who has been overlooked? If so, please vote! The vote is now definitely over. The members of the House who are responsible for this will now vote as well as in the previous elections. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4416	I will resume the interrupted session and announce the results of the election as follows: Members cast: 182; of which: 164. The absolute majority of valid votes are 83. On Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn took 90 votes, on Mag. Terezija Stoisits53 votes. 21 votes were taken by other Members. [[These 21 votes were for the Members: Dr Fassleven: 2, Mag. Main: 2, Dr. Lichtenberger: 1, Scheibner: 15, Mag. Schweitzer: 1.]] That's Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn was elected Third President of the National Council. [[General condolences.]] I'm asking the chosen one if he accepts the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4477	I'd like to take the choice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4495	I congratulate Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornfor election to the Third President of the National Council and may ask him to sit in the Bureau. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn takes place at the Bureau.]] 3rd. Point Choice of the authors and folders
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4529	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item: Choice of the authors and folders. In accordance with an agreement at the Presidential Conference, I propose to make the choice of the authors and folders under one by raising the seats. Is there any objection to this procedure? - That's not the case. I shall therefore proceed in this way. We arrive at the choice of the authors and folders. The proposal is before me: Jakob Auer, Astrid Stadler, Magistrate. Dr. Josef Drinkl from the Austrian People's Party as well as Gabriele Binder and Rainer Wimmer from the Social Democrats to writers as well as Deputies Ridi Steibl of the ÖVP, Gerhard Reheis of the Social Democrats, Mag. Eduard Mainoni of the Free and Dieter Brosz of the Greens to Folders ................................................................................................................. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this election proposal to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I assume the elect will accept the election. The choice of the authors and folders is thus carried out. 4. Point Election of the Main Committee
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4651	So we get to the 4th. Agenda item: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian According to § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the number of members of the Main Committee shall be fixed by decision of the National Council. The election is carried out in accordance with Article 30(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of electoral lists, with as many Members as one vote in each list as it corresponds to the ratio of the figures of the Members who have subdivided the individual lists. The order of the electoral proposal is crucial for the election. 32 members were proposed by common accord for the main committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this proposal to be a sign of approval. – This was adopted unanimously and is therefore decided. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the ÖVP Club 14 members, on the SPÖ Club 12 members, on the FPÖ 3 members and on the Green Club 3 members. The following Members have therefore been elected on the basis of the lists I have submitted: of the Austrian People's Party Club: Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Auer, Karl Donabauer, Franz Eßl, Dr. Werner Fasslevend, Silvia Fuhrmann, Fritz Grillitsch, Mag. Karin Hakl, Dr. Andreas Khol, Mag. Helmut Kukacka, Maria Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Mag. Walter Tancsits, Ingrid Turkovic-Wendl; of the Social Democrats' Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Caspar Einm, Christian Faul, Dr. Heinz Fischer, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Mag. Christine Lapp, Mag. Christine Muttonen, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Stefan Prehauser, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Peter Schieder, Dr. Peter Wittmann ; of the club of the liberals: May. Karl Schweitzer, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn ; from the Green Club: Dr. Evelin Lichtenberger, Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, Dr. Peter Pilz. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. 5. Point Election of permanent committees (Immuniity Committee, Incompatibility Committee, Budget Committee)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4908	We're on the 5th. Agenda item: Election of permanent committees. I would like to begin with the following permanent committees: Immunities Committee, Incompatibilities Committee, Budget Committee. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of setting up the committees referred to above to be a sign of this. – In turn, I note the unanimity and the decision. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Council shall determine the number of members and alternate members of each committee. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them in accordance with the principles laid down in section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. The clubs shall make the members of the committee and alternate members of the committee appointed to the President. These are considered to be chosen. After consulting in the Presidential Conference, a number of 13 members and substitute members are now proposed by common accord for the Immunity Committee and the Inconsistency Committee, each of which is divided among the political groups as follows: six members and substitute members of the Austrian People's Party, five members and substitute members of the Social Democrats, one member and one replacement member of the Liberals, one member and one replacement member on the Greens. A committee size of 26 members and replacement members is proposed for the Budget Committee. These are distributed to the political groups as follows: Each of 12 members and replacement members on the ÖVP, each of ten members and replacement members on the SPÖ, two members and replacement members on the FPÖ, two members and replacement members on the Greens. We shall come to the vote. First of all, I shall vote on the Committee size of the Immunities Committee and the Inconsistency Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a committee size of 13 members and replacement members to give a sign of approval. – I adopt the unanimous decision-making and adoption. I shall now vote on the Committee size of the Committee on Budgets. Those ladies and gentlemen, who are for a committee size of 26 members and replacement members, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. The names of the members who have been notified by the clubs to the President, or as alternate members, and thus as elected Members, are listed in the Stenographical Protocol. [[At the time of printing, not all lists were available; see Annex.]] 6. Point Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Constitutional Act 1948
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e4994	We shall now proceed to the 6th and the last item on the agenda: Election of members to be sent by the National Council and substitute members of the Standing Joint Committee of the National Council and of the Federal Council within the meaning of Section 9 of the Financial Constitution Law 1948. This committee consists of a total of 26 members elected by the National Council and the Federal Council each half. As regards the 13 members of the National Council, to which 13 replacement members are added, it is proposed, on the basis of the agreement in the presidential conference 6 of the ÖVP, 5 of the SPÖ and 1 member of the FPÖ and the Greens each. I have the following constituency proposals: As members: of the ÖVP Club: Jakob Auer, Dr. Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Johann Kurzbauer, Johannes Schweisgut, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Ing. Josef Winkler ; from the SPÖ Club: Dkfm. Dr. Hannes Bauer, Dr. Josef Cap, Kurt Eder, Marianne Hagenhofer, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser ; of the FPÖ Club: Dr Dieter Böhmdorfer; from the Green Club: Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen. As replacement members: of the ÖVP Club: Peter Haubner, Karlheinz Kopf, Edeltraud Lentsch, Dr. Ferdinand Maier, Werner Miedl, Mag. Walter Tancsits ; from the SPÖ Club: Heinz Gradwelt, Ing. Erwin Kaipel, Manfred Lacner, Erika Scharer, Mag. Melitta Trunk ; of the FPÖ Club: Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn; from the Green Club: May. Werner Kogler. You heard the proposals. Is there any objection to voting on the proposals? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, as I have called them, are in favour of the election of these Members, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. This choice has also been made. The agenda is exhausted. I hand over the presidency to the Third President, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Request for urgent procedure Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Mag. Karl Schweitzer, colleagues on the outcome of the Copenhagen European Council on 12 and 13. December 2002 (1/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5272	We are now moving towards urgent treatment of the self-employed application (1/A) (E), which has just been distributed. As this request has now been received by all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5348	I give the floor to Mr Spindelegger as an applicant for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5370	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take the opportunity at the first meeting of the National Council in the new legislative period, also on behalf of my group, to focus on the issues which are currently being discussed in the European context. First of all, on behalf of the EIA, I would like to express my great pleasure at the fact that a historic event has taken place at the Copenhagen Council: Ten candidate countries were admitted to the European Union by decision, subject to the necessary decisions. I believe that this is really a reason to call a decision “historical”. We welcome this extremely, because this will make Europe a really great peace and prosperity project, as we have predicted. I think we have every reason to be proud of it! [[In the case of the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Eder.]] However, I would also like to use this opportunity to talk about the special, specifically Austrian problems which have appeared to us at this summit, as in the previous ones, particularly important and for which we still need solutions that are in the sense of Austria. In particular, there are two political issues, the transit question and the question of Temelín, which concern us. I would like to start with the transit question because sometimes impressions are raised in the public, which are far from any reality, and because I consider it necessary to correct the dimensions. We always have to take into account two requirements for the whole question of the transit contract of Austria: One is that we face the fact that the contractual arrangement expires at the end of 2003. We therefore need a replacement solution, we need a regulation for our country on these issues – about the ecopoints or however they may be referred to – so that the heavy transport of goods through Austria takes place on the basis of regulations within the European Union, and not the principle of free travel. The second condition is that we need partners to do this. It is not the case that one simply has to pick up one decision in the European Union, but we need partners to do so, we need to agree with the other Member States – and this is difficult to achieve. As we know, despite the call to the European Council, no results have been achieved. The objective for Austria is quite clear: We want the transit contract not to expire. We need an extension, a new system, which is satisfactory for us for at least three years. Secondly, we need a clear directive that it is one for Austria as a whole. You can't have loopholes there! Thirdly, we need a clear commitment in the European Union that in future a new road cost directive may include factors other than possible in a toll. It will be necessary not only to play a role in all issues relating to environmental protection, but also to allow cross-subsidisation of rail development by a truck toll. I think that under these conditions, the Copenhagen European Council has shown a certain intermediate result, but of course not yet the solution. A regulation on an interim solution for the transit of heavy-duty vehicles through Austria for the period from 2004 to 2006 has to be established by the end of the year – as formulated by the European Council at point 35 in the conclusions. If I consider public opinion, ladies and gentlemen, I must also say a few critical words at this first session. We all agree that we want a solution for Austria. And none of us need to try to profile in the public the way Mrs. Lichtenberger did, for example, which meant that the ÖVP/FPÖ government wants to see an unbridled transit by the population. – Ladies and gentlemen, far missing! These are words which, as I think, do not need to fall in this context. Or: I should like to quote Mr Eder, who explained that it was a failure, that we did not speak in time. – If you follow the list of all the events in this context, everything that has already been done by Austria in the European Union to the European Court of Justice for the ecopoints, then I think you should do away with such statements! As far as Mr Niessl from Burgenland is concerned, I have read in the APA, he has explained that there is a westerly burden of the government here. – He obviously does not know that the transit agreement has so far been valid for all of Austria and that this will, of course, continue in the future. On the occasion of these press releases, I would also like to suggest: Let us take advantage of this new legislative period, which begins today at the first meeting, but let us make a national consensus on such European issues, where vital interests of Austria are on the agenda! I would like to ask you to see it that way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we look at the conclusions of the Council on Temelín, we must admit that many countries of the European Union continue to benefit from nuclear power, and this is reflected in all decisions. However, we have set standards with our neighbouring country, the Czech Republic, with the Milker Convention, according to which it is precisely necessary to invest in safety, knowing at the same time that we cannot prescribe a neighboring country whether it will put a nuclear power plant into operation or not. The milking process with the binding international declaration of the Czech Republic to comply with these standards, with a road map that also sets out exact data, which has to be done up to some point, offers a certain degree of security. Moreover, if the Czech Republic has jointly signed a bilateral agreement with us at the Copenhagen European Council, confirming its commitment to these agreements, then that is, as I believe, what we can achieve at European level at the moment. The decisive thing for us is that the one who has been achieved is that it is legally binding. It is less crucial whether the European Court of Justice or the International Court of Justice is responsible for this. We want safety to be a major issue at Temelín too, and I believe that we can do so with this procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have long discussed all these questions in Austria. It's about putting it into practice now. On this occasion I would also like to say quite clearly from our point of view that all the observers of the international sphere working in the European Union know that our members of the government – whether the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister or the Minister for Infrastructure – have given their best in order to achieve a solution. I would also like to thank you at this point for this commitment, because many decisions that have already taken a particular direction in Europe would not have been possible in the past. Especially in connection with the subject of Temelín, I would remind you that the European Union did not even want to talk about safety standards for European nuclear power plants earlier. Considering that some of these power stations are already on the list of those that need to be closed, and that proposals on safety standards are also drawn up in the Commission in such a way, one must say: Much has already been done here. I would like to ask all of you to concentrate on trying to implement the Austrian positions together during the forthcoming work. This requires the cooperation of every political group in this House. If we are so far as we know what we want – and I think we agree on Temelín and also on the question of transit – then we should develop a strategy for how we can implement it. The main players are the government members – they have proven in the past that they are just too perfect in this metier. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a lobbying with the other countries! [[Deputies Eder and Mag. Worm: Sure! Now you said it yourself!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have so much in the opposition to take action against the Federal Government that you no longer see where the opponents of the solution we want sit! They are in the other countries of the European Union, and that is why we need support from Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I would like to ask you and ask that you, together with us, decide today at the first meeting on the urgent request, in which the essential points are held once again and we, together with the Federal Government, give the task of continuing negotiations in the sense of Austria. I think it would be good if we were to re-commit the press releases that have been made to the past legislative period and start today. My request and offer to all the political groups in this House are: Let us work together for the goals of Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5470	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Excuse me, first of all, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic speaks.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5492	High house! Mr President. I can push myself in between Michael Spindelegger and Karl Schweitzer and comment on this very important subject. I would like to thank the two political groups in ÖVP and FPÖ for allowing the House and the public, indirectly, to receive a report on the Copenhagen European Council. This is an essential issue that will have a massive impact on our future in the coming years, and it is therefore also wise and right that we can also talk about this challenge for our future on this first day of constitution. The Copenhagen European Council, which took place a week ago, has brought about something that many of us have hoped for through years, not to say decades. Today I have seen Alois Mock, our former foreign minister and vice-channer, at the visitor gallery, and I will never forget how he had already concluded our accession negotiations in 1994, when he said to the twelve EU or EC Member States: Do not forget the forthcoming round of enlargement in Central and Eastern Europe! – Dr. Mock announced that he had anticipated this at a time when few believed that this would be possible at all. I had the honour of being able to start negotiations in autumn 1998, which have now ended in Copenhagen under the Danish Presidency, and in a few weeks, in April, this historic document of reunification in Central Europe will be signed on the Acropolis. There have also been countless attempts in the past to reach agreement on Europe. But these were all attempts to bring about an agreement of the continent from above, mostly by force, through hegemony. The difference at that time is that such a union of the continent will become possible for the first time in the history of Europe, in freedom, in democratic agreement – because there is a need for referendums in the candidate countries – and by voluntary negotiation now. This gives a bright perspective for Europe, but also for Austria, as I believe. We can see problems in this, but we must not underestimate the historical opportunity that opens up this possibility. I would like to thank the previous presidency, not only Denmark, but also all those who have taken the first steps or continued the project. I would like to congratulate the European Commission, which had to bear the main burden of the negotiations. Romano Prodi, from the very beginning, a genuine and determined supporter of this reunification project, Günter Verheugen, the responsible Commissioner, and also – I am not saying this without pride – the Austrian Franz Fischler played a very important role in the crucial issues, for example in agriculture, and thus paves the way for this agreement in Copenhagen. Thank you to all those who have contributed! At the same time, however, we also thank the people of Central and Eastern Europe, in the Baltic countries, which, in part, has proved with resistance to the former Hegemon, that it can fight the way to Europe and wants to: the Czechs, the Poles, Hungary and so on. In any case, the model of civil court in this population should be a model for us and should not be forgotten at a time when this project is being discussed at the Copenhagen European Council. The accession negotiations themselves have, I believe, produced a good result for us. I believe that the population in the candidate countries also sees this as similar, and I hope that the necessary referendums will also be positive by a clear majority. I am not only saying this because we have neighboring, good feelings, but also because this union of Europe is in our own interest. It is an important contribution to peace and stability, especially in our zone of Europe, where there has been war, violence, displacements, expropriations. It is an important contribution to internal security. Just remember that the fight against cross-border risks, against which no nation-state can stand alone today – organised crime, money laundering, drug trafficking or trafficking – can be better coordinated internationally and Europeanly! The acceding countries do not belong to the Schengen zone, but they work very hard to ensure that they can belong to this internal zone of security as soon as possible. For us from the very beginning, environmental quality was a very important issue. I should like to remind you that the adoption of EU standards in these candidate countries now requires an investment of €100 billion in order to bring the economies and the various pollution and pollution facilities to a cleaner, European level. I am very sure that with the environmental cluster we have built up in the economy, the Austrian economy will also have an excellent opportunity. In the economy, it is particularly important for us to see that, as a smaller country in the heart of Europe, with a share of 2% of the EU population, we already have 8% of the European Union's trade volume and that we can use some of the growth gains or the growth benefits of our neighbouring countries for us. The real growth rates in the candidate countries are between 3.5 and 4 percent around us, so that this will also be a job and an overall economic opportunity for us. The financial flows were very controversial until the Copenhagen Council. The overall agreement costs us €40.9 billion for the whole of Europe, cumulated until 2006. That means that we are, at about €1.75 billion, under the Berlin decisions, although we wanted to take up only six countries at the time, but have now taken ten. Net costs for the 15 EU Member States today amount to just over €10 billion. – The membership contribution of the new candidates alone is €15 billion! – I'm saying this so you can see the relationship here a little bit. The “Herald Tribune” has written in a very interesting editorial these days that enlargement for Europe and today’s EU-15 is actually a very good business, one of the best investments in our own future. We have calculated that in the next three years, starting in 2004, we will invest € 570 million, which is €25 for each Austrian. It is interesting to note that the new candidate countries do not enter under the same conditions as the existing members. Greece receives about €437 per year per capita, Spain about €126, Slovenia €41, Hungary €49, Poland €67 and the Czechs only €29. The fact that we have also achieved that we have stabilised agricultural expenditure by the year 2013, thus preventing a cost explosion on the one hand, but also an uncertainty of domestic agriculture on the other, is important and, I believe, an element of these positive decisions by Copenhagen. Like Germany, Austria has made massive efforts to ensure that we can control our labour market for a transitional period of seven years. This was accepted by everyone. The question of whether we use this time limit to the full or not will very well depend on how the labour market development affects us. Now it would be too early to make a final decision on this. But it's our decision, and that's, I think, a very reasonable thing. We have used massively – Michael Spindelegger has pointed out – to work together in a broad consensus of parties on nuclear safety, because the accession process for the first time allowed us to shut down or at least upgrade unsafe nuclear power plants in our neighborhood. Three nuclear power plants are even locked up: Ignalina and Bohunice are already out of dispute – the countries in question are already candidates for accession – and yesterday, as I have heard with great joy, the Bulgarian government decided that Kozloduj, just as it has been agreed, is also being shut down, which requires great sacrifices for the Bulgarians; but it is a contribution to a reasonable nuclear security policy within Europe. As far as Temelin is concerned, we have done so. Temelin was not on the list of nuclear power plants to be closed – which the Commission and the other countries have never accepted – but it is a nuclear power plant that is now in operation. With the help of the Commission's mediation, we have achieved that there is a bilateral treaty, binding by international law, for the Czech Republic and Austria. We wanted, in agreement with Prague and with the Commission, to present this Milker Treaty as a protocol to the Act of Accession and thus to make it acquitable to the European Court of Justice. The last point has not been reached, not because the Czechs have crossed, quite the contrary: These are their words, and I would also like to expressly hold this here. Prague has behaved first class in this phase and has worked really well with us. The new Prime Minister Špidla and Foreign Minister Svoboda have cooperated very closely and confidently with us. . Instead, three EU Member States, which themselves have nuclear power plants, have prevented us from getting through the back door a Community law for nuclear power plants – a concern we, I believe, jointly represent, regarding which the Commission is on our side and has already presented the first proposals. Nevertheless, we have achieved that the Melker conclusions are annexed to the Accession Treaty as Annex – not as a protocol but as a bilateral declaration – and that the European Council has welcomed and welcomed this Treaty and ultimately expects its immediate implementation. The most difficult thing for us was the transit question. I have here submitted a detailed report to the President-in-Office, and I would also like to describe these things very realistically here, in order to explain my view of things to the public as well as to the opposition that it sees as very critical. When we started three years ago, we had nothing to do with preliminary work or commitments to extend the transit contract. I'm saying this without accusing anyone. It was perfectly clear that the transit solution negotiated at the time in our accession agreement will be replaced by the end of 2003. I would like to thank Mathias Reichhold, the Minister for Infrastructure, but also the Foreign Minister for their tireless lobbying in order to prepare the ground for our understanding among the other 14 Member States that there must be an extension of these ecopoints, these transit schemes. We have been able to anchor this for the first time in Laeken, in the conclusions of the previous European Council. The Minister of Infrastructure has given me a list indicating that this year alone he has been lobbying for this important concern at 40 international meetings. The Deputy Chancellor was together with the Foreign Minister for a bilateral meeting in Italy. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany visited the state in the autumn of this year. I even took it with me to show you. September this year was signed by Lunardi and Reichhold – signed by the Italian Minister of Transport, each page, as one does in an international treaty – that the Commission proposal that we have requested in Laeken and which is presented a few days later is actually approved. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] After a delaying tactic in Copenhagen, we are still standing without a concrete result. What should we have done now? – I would like to ask that at this point. We could have said: We are sorry, it was nothing! or do what we have done, namely to the Copenhagen European Council in a massive and strongly represent our Austrian concerns, just as the other countries have done, Portugal, for example, with a Berlin Protocol or some of the candidate countries. I found it completely incomprehensible that some feel that such an historic event should not also address an important national concern – which I believe is of great importance to European transport policy. I know we might have been a little nervous with this. In the meantime, of course, every European minister of transport knows not only what the Austrian transit treaty is and what the ecopoints are and why we do not want to allow any exception in our territory. Austria is Austria! Whether this is about Hörbranz or the Burgenland or Vienna: Austria is Austria! I have maintained in the conclusions that there will be a three-year extension – that was also disputed – and that this extension will take place throughout Austria. What is open – I would like to say very directly here – is that we have not yet guaranteed the extent to which the number of ecopoints must be reduced if the most modern truck, the “Euro 4”, which is newly approved from 2005 onwards, goes into operation in order to keep the pollutant balance stable. We have also fought massively for us to achieve that, at the same time, the Commission is presenting a new proposal for a new European Road Costs Directive in the first half of the year, because one thing I also say to you very openly – and I know that I am in agreement with my colleagues in government in this regard –: Everything that will be decided here – hopefully – can only be a transitional arrangement and a provisional. Of course, what we need is massive investment in the railways. That is why the last German government has also made available €17 billion, of which two thirds for rail development. Inntal expansion is already in progress. The Brenner Base Tunnel track is to be set in motion as a private-public partnership model. However, we need a road cost directive that allows us to achieve a Europe-wide fair capacity and cross-funding for the rails for the surplus income, otherwise all of this will never be expected. Only if we see this as a whole – a three-year extension until this new road cost directive enters into force with the more fair tolls until we can invest so that the rail development takes place in such a way that an alternative to road transport comes about – then, I think, we can talk about a real solution. At the moment, at least in Copenhagen, we have set things back in motion, reopening the discussion process. We have at the moment, I think, the fifth interruption of COREPER. This is the Permanent Representatives Committee; I think it will be resumed after the Fisheries Council today at 5 p.m. I promise you: We will not loosen up, so that we will have a reasonable regime for the Austrian environment, for the Austrian population! We must not tire out, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are strong then if we do not turn the forces against each other. We all have the same opinion: We want a clear extension with everything around how the transit contract once was. The problem is just: We must convince the others – and we can only do so if we act together and not turn the forces against each other. Allow me one last word on the further prospects for accession: In Copenhagen, a 2007 accession date for Bulgaria and Romania has been declared realistic, as possible, which I very much welcome. No date has been set for Turkey – and I welcome it in order to say so very openly, because first the Commission, as with all the contributions, should be to submit a report on the processes of entry, an objective criterion: Does Turkey meet the political and economic criteria – yes or no? I say quite frankly: The door must remain open – that is clear – but only for those who really believe that they also link the same canon of values with us, that they know what democracy, human rights, pluralism ultimately means, what international law and the rule of law do. These criteria must be clarified once and for all, then such a candidate can begin with the accession negotiations: not if only the principle of hope applies, but the criteria, the political criteria, must be fulfilled. At the same time, I am saying that the Union itself must be extendable and willing to expand, even in such a difficult process, where the prospect of accession has now been opened up for ten countries. I say quite openly: If Turkey is to be integrated into the negotiation process, we must have the courage, but at the same time give Balkan countries, such as Croatia or Yugoslavia, at least a clear and clear perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: With this Copenhagen European Council, Austria will be the only country with four neighbouring countries, which will soon be new members. We are moving from the periphery to the centre of Europe. We have a fascinating task in front of us: to develop the border regions – economically, culturally, educationally. The aim of the Minister of Education is always to offer the language of the neighbouring country in schools along the border. The network of regional partnership, which our Minister for Foreign Affairs Benita Ferrero-Waldner has created and which will be given the greatest strategic importance for the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5656	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5674	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have also known ourselves in the Government Convention on the Enlargement of the European Union. But I say that we are also somewhat critical of this enlargement – in the form of how it has now gone over the stage. Federal Chancellor! We know that the European Union has defined clear rules that can be met if you want to become a member of the European Union. However, one cannot repeatedly resist the impression that, if a date of accession is closer, one will be prevented from complying with these rules. The rules of the game, which are actually set up to ensure that the interplay works, are not fully complied with at once, and some of the rules of the game are partially broken. And that is something that has to be rejected, especially because we have to note that it is always large countries, which, when their own interests are concerned, do not comply with the rules of the game. After having had no opportunity to discuss this in this House, I would like to remind you that there has only recently been a discussion on compliance with the Stability Pact. This Stability Pact was introduced by the Minister of Finance of that country, particularly disputed and represented, which then said it no longer adheres to what the European Union has called for. – Such a procedure must be rejected! In this context, the small countries have the task of acting together against the need to comply with the rules of the game only if small countries are affected, but they can break large. That's not how it's done! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This basic critical remark must be allowed to me, but of course this urgent request is to be seen in the context of what has affected Austrian problems at the Copenhagen Summit. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to all our negotiators for the fact that they have managed to work out at least one approach for Austria in the transit question, which still includes the Austrian positions, and that these are also represented accordingly, yet this negotiators' round has been faced with the problem that many errors have been made in the run-up to the fact that the negotiators of the transit agreement at that time have failed to negotiate an arbitrary transitional solution at the same time, so that we are faced with the fact that this transit agreement would have expired in 2003 without having had anything in our hands. So what has been achieved so far is quite a progress, especially because the Eastern Region is now involved in this ecopoints quota. I see this as a very great progress. I am particularly grateful to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Transport and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany for having shown the necessary hardness in the negotiations in order to get that far. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It must be seen that the European Union has once again been sparse in one of Austria's most important issues. There have been five or six shifts in the presentation of the Road Costs Directive. And you can't take that. One cannot accept that something that is of almost vital importance to a country is simply being pushed to the long bank. For this reason, it is also necessary to proceed with clear hardness and to show that this is a country's life interests in the midst of the European Union, which will not allow its population to be reduced in the quality of its life of unbridled traffic so that life in the Inn Valley may not be worth living any more. That's not how it can be. Federal Chancellor! Now to what has been achieved in the question of Temelín. It was obviously the maximum possible – we would have wanted more. I must say that the solution in the form is not satisfactory for us, but I now rely on what the Greens have always said in this House: Let us, however, become a member of the European Union, then we have the chance that Temelín will actually be shut down if we in the European Union can also review the zero variant in the form of whether it is economically sensible at all to put Temelín into operation! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! The Czech Republic is now becoming a member of the European Union, and now we can work together to review the economy of Temelín in the form of whether it is even useful to actually produce the electricity produced there, since it will not be on the market in view of the liberalisation of the European energy market without cross-subsidisation. That means: If cross-subsidised, one violates European competition directives – so it is not possible! – and if you do not cross-subsidize, no one buys the electricity. Together with the Greens, the SPÖ and the two other parties represented here in the House, it may be possible not to put Temelín into operation from an economic point of view. I have not yet given up the hope.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5727	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. The clock is set to 5 minutes if desired. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5745	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of a border region, namely the forest district, I am, of course, particularly pleased with the historical choices made by the Copenhagen European Council. From a decades-old extreme frontier situation, we are going to the heart of Europe's reunification, to the centre of Europe – with all the opportunities it offers strategic for the next decades. I believe that in fact – as some previous speakers have already stressed – Copenhagen at the beginning of the 21st century. ==References====External links== I have to say: The year 2002, which ends in a few days, what a fascinating year from the point of view of Europe! At the beginning of the year, there was the introduction of a common European currency – the euro was introduced – and now, just before the end of the year, this historic policy position in Copenhagen. Ladies and gentlemen! For me – I hope, for all of us – it is a real reason for joy that at this time in our Parliament we can do what policy should be: Politics is supposed to be future-forming. What is the more beautiful challenge to be able to make a Europe of the future?- Oh, my God! I think I am happy to be part of this Parliament at this stage. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the Copenhagen European Council, Austria has introduced two separate themes of genuine national interest and high priority; the previous speakers have already stressed it. I think you can achieve more and more, but if you can't do politics alone, if you're a member of many, you have to realistically see things. I think that what has been achieved here so far was actually a maximum within the framework of the possibility. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not forget, for example, that two fundamental principles are interconnected in transit: on the one hand, the fundamental principle of the Constitution of the European Union ‘Free movement of goods and services’, on the other hand, the equally fundamental principle of ‘Preserving man and the environment from negative influences’; that is, maintaining a living environment, preserving our world’s top quality of life. As far as quality of life is concerned, we continue to take place worldwide. There is no doubt that two concerns are of the highest national interest. Ladies and gentlemen! We should also be so honest as to say that, with regard to the objective of bringing these two principles to a denominator – I am very glad that the Federal Chancellor has also stressed this very strongly – in the long term, causally there are only three possibilities: first, the development and forced use of state-of-the-art technology in motor vehicle construction, second, the shift from road to rail and third, if possible, the ban on traffic under the earth, is also under tunneling, says Brenner base tunnel. We should be so honest to say – especially since this transit contract is about to celebrate the 10th anniversary of its in-force meeting – that the transit contract has the historic merit of being the first ecological regulation of transit traffic in Europe. In my knowledge, Austria is the only country with such an ecological regime of transit. But we must also be so honest as to say: The transit agreement, the ecopoints were always only intended as transitional arrangements. We need this transitional regime again, we need it again from 2004 to 2006, but we should not lose sight of the greater objective, namely those three measures that I have mentioned. I am really grateful to the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister, the Minister Molterer and Reichhold, for it was Austria that regulated the two issues ecologically. the transit and safety of nuclear power plants at European level has only made it a subject! This is not just about short-term success, but about long-term security strategies for Europe, ladies and gentlemen. – Thank you, Federal Chancellor, and your government team, which has successfully negotiated here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word to Temelín. – There are many points of view in my Waldviertel constituency. You have visual contact, you can see the miles of Temelín. Nevertheless, in this border region too, a large majority of the population has confidence in the Melker Agreement, confident that these treaties are also respected under international law; so far, the Czechs have adhered precisely to them. We also trust that the new Czech government under Prime Minister Špidla will stick to it. We should take this broad mood in the population, and here in this Parliament too, we should give this milker agreement the confidence it deserves. Ladies and gentlemen! Coming to the end: I believe that the issues of such far-reaching national interest are that we should resist all temptations to change small parties here. Both Temelín and transit are not suitable for party hacking, but are topics for which one can only appeal: Not only do we signal European solidarity, we not only signal ecological solidarity, we also signal national solidarity. In this sense, my expectation is that all four political groups in this House agree with this urgent request.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5825	As the next speaker, Mr Dr. Ein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5843	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to have returned here in the National Council to everyday life. But I can do it briefly: We will not agree with the urgent request made by the two ever-yet government groups. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's nothing new anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's a shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The attempt, whenever you are in distress, when you have just failed to do something again, to come and say: Now we need a national shoulder closure!, is understandable, but a bit cheap. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is about you seeing that you have also caused the distress in which you are now, and for that I will cite some example. I should like to comment briefly on the comments made by Mr Schweitzer, who has already left the room in the meantime. He meant that he was actually guilty of those who negotiated the transit contract, because they would not have negotiated it... – No, he said it differently. He said: If they had negotiated him in good time, he would have gone either for 100 years or would have included at least a transitional arrangement. This is, of course, a very clever consideration, but, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed the case, as my colleague stupidly said: The transit contract was a sensation at the time we concluded it, and, of course, it did something in the time of its duration: He has led to a reduction in the exhaust emissions, and we should see this clearly and clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] It is also not the case, as Mr Bundeskanzler said, that nothing has happened before the start of this black and blue government. Of course, something has already happened before; I like to come back to it. Of course, I too, as Minister of Transport, started discussions with the Commission on a transitional arrangement in autumn 1999. However, there has been a change of government, and since then the ball has actually been with you. But let me also bring another point to the meeting, because you, Federal Chancellor, have acted as if this were only a European matter. The question of the extent to which Austrians are burdened by transit is not a question that depends exclusively on the transit contract, is not a question in which the 14 European partners can be blamed if our problem has not been solved. I can remind you that we could have done some concrete things domestically, and that as social democrats we have always been at our disposal as partners, Mr. Federal Chancellor, only you have jumped! We reached an agreement with you in 1996, namely a coalition pact, which states that we are introducing truck-road pricing. Of course, this would be a measure which contributes to the transfer of traffic from road to rail by creating fair competitive conditions in the cost of transport. But you jumped off in the spring of 1997! Thus, the law that we have agreed to together is that of 1st. In July 1998 a truck-road pricing should have been brought into force. Today, five years later, we still don't have truck-road pricing, and that means that about € 1 billion of revenue is lost. Mr Bundeskanzler, then you had our shoulder closure! It was about concrete measures, but you didn't want to do anything – the miser has the Austrians today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The same, ladies and gentlemen, applies, for example, to the question of transport via the burner. It was the ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs, who carried a certain Brenner toll regime that was illegal. Austria has been sued by the Commission for discriminatory collection of the toll and for excessive toll. It was always clear that Austria will lose this case at the European Court of Justice. That was also the reason why I tried in autumn 1998 to reach a European-level regulation allowing us to maintain the same height of toll, but on the condition that a third of it is lifted on the route between Kufstein and Innsbruck. – The regulation has been adopted, the Commission has agreed, the 14 partners have agreed, but the ÖVP Tyrol and the ÖVP at federal level have not agreed and have not realized it! We have lost the procedure, and today we read in the newspaper that Austria is threatening to pay a fine of 1 million schillings a day in the next few weeks to ensure that the adjustment has not taken place. Federal Chancellor! You can have our shoulder closure then, when it comes to the concrete problem solution, but if you do not come to a result due to a missing negotiation strategy, skip Please do it yourself! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, I should like to say: We will not prevent you – you know very well – from doing the necessary and useful, but the responsibility for what you did not achieve in Copenhagen and what to complete You have previously prevented the Minister of Foreign Affairs and you are wearing what the Minister of Transport has not completed. In conclusion, I should like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5973	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Dr. Eine, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e5994	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that the Copenhagen Summit was a historic summit and that the decisions on the accessions of our neighbours, but also the Baltic States, Malta and Cyprus, are a historic event. The fact that these opportunities are great for Austria and need to be used, good use must be made, good neighborhood needs to be used, there is no doubt about that either. And precisely because this is the case, I think it is a serious historical error that two key questions of Austrian interests, namely the transit question and the question of Temelín, have been split up right up to this summit. This has dramatically reduced the chances of a solution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government Party! They have today submitted a request that the representatives of the Federal Government should, at the end of the day, excuse the representatives of the Federal Government for the end of the last period of government without decisive and targeted activities on these two issues. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been much too late – and the wrong – initiatives in both areas. Let me first of all say a few words on the question of the transit agreement. They make a request and ask us to support this request, which states that a regulation, any regulation – and as we know after the negotiating stage – is to be signed without upper limit in transit traffic. Ladies and gentlemen! Without limit, this ecopoints scheme is beyond any enforceability. That would be just as if you were forbidding parking in certain places, but no one ever cares about whether it is controlled, and no man is punishing anyone when he parks there. Without this upper limit, as is now contained, there is no longer any enforceability of the ecopoints scheme. We were all horrified at the fact that the debate on Laeken's findings had taken place on this meagre compromise, which no longer provides for a ceiling. The horror along the transit routes has grown as it is now said that it is agreed that a regulation with an exception for so-called clean trucks of class EURO 4. Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, we have received scientific data on the table proving that the so-called clean trucks of class EURO 2 and EURO 3 are no cleaner in real operation than the so-called dirty trucks of class EURO 1. With regard to EURO 4, we know nothing about the real emission behaviour at all. Nevertheless, a blank check is issued that these trucks should be excluded from the scheme. But that's not enough. I have taken from the Italian media today that Minister Lunardi promises his supporters no longer to agree with ecopoints at all. And I am looking at how the Italian rule of law, which Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has always so warmly welcomed, can be convinced that Austria needs a feasible regime for transit. The only positive thing that happened at the Copenhagen Summit on transit traffic is the promise of a new road cost directive to allow higher tolls in so-called sensitive areas – I hope at least – to be allowed. But that, ladies and gentlemen, is not free. The need for a great negotiating skill that you haven't proved so far. It will also be a matter of taking their own transporters into duty. I can only hope that you have backbone enough to stand up against your own lobbyists on this issue and not to reopen the front for complaints, so to speak, which will result in another toll or other regulation before the European Court of Justice, as we unfortunately had to experience at the Brenner. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This question is also so important because we are standing shortly after the in-force step of the Alpine Convention. ==References== It entered into force on 1 December. In doing so, we have accepted international obligations to implement measures that must also be imposed in the transport sector – this is what the Transport Protocol requires us to do. This Alpine Convention describes the area of a sensitive zone in the form of an international treaty. This sensitive Alpine zone must be protected from heavy traffic and its negative effects. I would ask one of you – if you had done so before, then today the negotiations looked different: We need an international, alpine-wide solution to transit traffic, so that the crossings are no longer played against each other. Only then do we have a realistic chance! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, on your request and the appropriate requests to support this request. Ladies and gentlemen of the current government groups! They are so happy to ask us to close our shoulders, including Mr Tilg, a liberal from Tyrol. This for- However, I would like to leave this aside, namely the one in favour of the population, and not the one with the ÖVP government line. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Community must come from both sides. A commonness cannot be expected and demanded that the opposition before the line of government fall on the knees and unsightly “brings” everything that stands inside. This is absolutely impossible in this case. Ladies and gentlemen! They have never tried to adopt a common attitude with us. I'll throw that before you. That is why it is all lamentable that we cannot vote in favour of this rather strange request, not even a crocodile tear. Joint positions also require joint negotiations and joint speeches, each one going a bit far to the other, but not a dictatorship from the ÖVP government line, which is indisputable in content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6106	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6124	High house! Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Minister! At the conclusion of the transit contract in 1991, strings and climate failed to agree on a successor. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] A period of twelve years was agreed, which was reduced to ten years with Austria's accession to the EU. However, a survey commissioned by Minister Reichhold shows how serious this problem is: 90 percent of our population take transit problems very seriously, 62 percent even say Austria should not agree to the EU Treaty on Easter enlargement if there is no adequate transit solution. And in Tyrol there was a survey, according to which 78 percent of the population there were of this opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] If now, Minister for Exploration To one of our Minister for Transport Reichhold, he wouldn't have been diligent enough or have other worries and talk only, I must say the following: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Reheat]] If a minister – as Minister Mathias Reichhold – has personally held 40 talks with partners from all over Europe in order to represent Austrian positions, I would like to thank our Minister of Transport, Mathias Reichhold, as a Tyrolean Member. [[Abg. Gradwell: What is the result?]] - Thank you, Mathias! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What did it use?]] I would like to speak briefly to Mrs Lichtenberger. There is an APA message and the following statement from it – which has not been long ago –: Clearly against the emerging transit compromise in Brussels, the Greens have just spoken out. This is a bad transit and a zero solution on the back of man and the environment. Green Transport Spokesman Eva Lichtenberger fears with case of the upper limit more pollutants, more noise and more accidents. This is not a solution for Austria. The Greens call for national solidarity against the compromise. That's strange. Our Chancellor and Mathias Reichhold did not agree to this compromise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] And all of a sudden, is it the case now? – That’s strange, I have to say. Mrs Lichtenberger! The Tyrolean Landtag unanimously decided that the transport chapter with the EU candidate countries should not be concluded until a sustainable European solution is found for cross-border transport. The principles of the White Paper adopted by the Commission are to be met. In addition, there is a letter from the head of the Tyrolean state to Mathias Reichhold – I do not know if the chancellor has received it – in which all the studies are included. There too, it is called upon not to accept this compromise. I believe that the Minister for Transport now needs every support from all Members of this House to find a new or better solution for Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A minimum compromise was found in Laeken in December 2001. If we're already starting to let this go, I don't know where to go. It is, of course, difficult for us Tyrolean Members to understand this whole thing. In view of the current investigations, there will really be a higher burden on us. But let us stop giving the people a compromise on the compromise and, in turn, a compromise! We all have to vote against this, we have to support our negotiating teams on this issue, instead of just acting polemically on the floor. – That's what I'm saying! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The population expects from our Members something better, the population wants us to do something. If more than 50 percent of Austrians say that we should not agree to these compromises, then we elected Members are responsible for the outcome. It's not supposed to be said that Mathia's Reichhold is to blame, because this one has never been supported by you. [[towards SPÖ and Greens]] That's what I'd like to say. [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I think we should all be worthy of trust and agree with this urgent request to give not only Mathias Reichhold, but also the Chancellor the opportunity to continue negotiating what you have rejected. But you have said before about the Greens that you will not agree. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: There's nothing in there in the application!]] One thing I have to say personally: We liberals are always for a hard transit solution, and we will continue to fight for this transit solution. I wish you, Mathias Reichhold, good luck in the next negotiations to achieve these goals, so that it is ensured in the future that Tyrol and all over Austria will be spared from the future transitlawine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6242	Mr Grillitsch has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6261	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! It's a pleasure and honor to me, the National Council of XXII. This is the first time that the Commission has been able to take a decision on this matter. For me, it is really a pleasure to be representatives of the Austrian population, and also the task of being there with care, far-sightedness and reliability for the population. As a new member of this House, I would like to assure you that I will devote myself to this task with full strength and with all my heart. Now on the subject of our debate: the Copenhagen European Council. I believe that this has brought to an end a very ambitious project. The most comprehensive enlargement of the European Union has been completed politically. We are pleased that we are with 1. In May 2004 ten new Member States could be included in our circle. If the negotiations are also completed, enlargement will be a central issue with its numerous impact on different levels. Ladies and gentlemen! This enlargement was and is the heart of our government – and it will remain. I am particularly grateful to our Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schussel and our Federal Minister Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner. They have fought in an excellent way not only for the overarching objective of the union of Europe, but above all for European interests. I am not only saying this about transit and temelín, I am also saying this today as an Austrian farmer's representative. We therefore have planning and reliability in our programme by 2013. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now on transit. There is a difficult starting point. We face the challenge of ensuring the protection of people and the environment against the negative effects of road freight transport in the future and ensuring the long-term and sustainable environmental improvements resulting from the implementation of the ecopoints system. However, transit is not just an Austrian problem. We therefore need this road cost directive, which has already been discussed, which also takes into account environmental factors such as pollutant emissions and noise pollution in determining toll levels. This is the objective of Austrian transport and environmental policy – and it must remain. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think anyone needs to make a kneefall in front of the government line. One should not act party-politically, one should not threaten blockades either, but open talks and hard negotiations are necessary in order to solve the transit question accordingly. The German Chancellors Schüssel and the ÖVP have signaled this willingness to talk and negotiate from the beginning – and we will do so in the future. Now to Temelín. We are in the happy position that the exit from nuclear energy in Austria enjoys broad consensus. But we should not be content with that. Our basic objective remains the Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy and the abandonment of nuclear power plants. It is undoubtedly a first Austrian success to have achieved a debate on security standards in the European Union. For this purpose every opportunity has been used at both government and Parliament level for discussions. Rarely before, such an active anti-atomic policy was pursued by a federal government, and we can build on a three-party consensus on nuclear safety. The following is clear to all of us: The expected anchoring of the indictability before the European Court of Justice has failed with the nuclear states in the European Union. This once again made it clear that a veto against the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU would have been the wrong way and would have hit the wrong ones. However, it is also clear that only a common strategy of all stakeholders within the EU – and this is the undisputed requirement of the EIA – can lead to a sustainable Europe-wide exit from nuclear energy. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore urge you not to be opposed to party-political motives, but to do so with us out of a great responsibility, in order to secure our livelihoods on the one hand, and on the other hand to leave no debts for our children on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6331	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6349	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen at the ministerial bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by quoting Mr Spindelegger, who said in his speech: What we need is lobbying. – I can only underline this, but I think it’s this lobby I should have had to have been there for years; it should not have been so particularly emphasized in the last few months. What do I mean by that? – We must not forget that this federal government has also ‘consumed’ three transport ministers in the last three years. Lobbying, of course, also means having many conversations, and if the states with which you are talking to are always addressed by other personalities, then this is not exactly a cause for concern, but an obstacle. You know that difficult questions can often be solved very well in the interpersonal field, if you know yourself longer and well. - On the one hand. Secondly, you also mentioned Mr. Landeshuptmann Niessl in brief. I can say here that Mr. Landeshuptmann Niessl – and I have heard this press release there – spoke only of a West-Wasteness of the Federal Government. He said that even after another ten Member States will come to the European Union – and this has been said in a bold way by my colleague: that we are part of the border with these countries – there is an urgent need for extensive infrastructure in order to cope, in particular, with the additional traffic burden that will come on us. I can only remind you that we will have an increase of about 70 percent in freight transport over the next five to eight years. That is why we are now all invited – and above all the next German government – to put in place the appropriate infrastructure measures, as we will not find the way out with the current infrastructure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not only about the need to extend the current transit agreement, but also about the implementation of the Road Costs Directive in the European Union as quickly as possible. This road cost directive – and there is already the EU White Paper – of course also includes the definition of sensitive zones – which was also addressed by colleague Lichtenberger – after which an increased truck toll may and may be removed in these sensitive zones, and the difference between the normal toll and the increased toll can be used for the financing of the railway. Ladies and gentlemen! Without the railway and without the waterway, we will not cope with the 70 percent increase in traffic that we have to expect due to the EU enlargement. Federal Chancellor! I would ask you to help in the future negotiation of these issues in the European Union in particular to address these issues. As far as the eastern region is concerned, I would like to point out the situation in Vienna and Lower Austria. Lower Austria as a core country, which is also a border with the new countries, and Vienna as one of the central transport nodes in the eastern region will of course urgently need the appropriate infrastructure: It is urgently necessary that we start the North Railway. It is urgently necessary that we quickly expand the Western and South Railways, that the Semmering Base Tunnel be built quickly. It is urgently necessary that we establish in Vienna the central railway station, the railway infrastructure, the freight railway infrastructure, as well as the south, the north-east and a clear route from Vienna. It is impossible for us to steer the freight traffic, which, due to economic prosperity, will rise by 70 percent, through the city, to bring it via Brunner Straße or through Prague Street to Vienna. It is no longer tolerable now, and I can calm down the Tyroleans regarding all their concerns relating to transit: In Vienna we already have up to 140 000 passenger cars and trucks daily in times of normal traffic! The need to remedy this is, I believe, understandable to all. There must therefore be new solutions here. At the belt we already have 40 000 to 50 000 truck and car movements in the inner city. It is therefore urgently necessary to make appropriate transport infrastructure investments in this region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since it has already been a matter of shoulder clasps and joint action, I would like to say this: If shoulder closure, if joint action, but also before common speaking and acting together, is to come together on a denominator, which we can then represent together as Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6425	The next speaker to speak was Mrs Dr Glawischnig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! ==References== December in Copenhagen was indeed a good day for Europe. The accession of ten states, the associated conclusion of a huge peace project, the final overcoming of the division of Europe and the actual end of the Cold War are things that the Greens have always welcomed and for which they have always been offensive. We have also always clearly and massively rejected the attempt to solve bilateral problems in the framework of Veto strategies within the framework of this major peace project. On the one hand, we considered this inappropriate, because it could threaten or delay the large project, and on the other hand, it was not a good strategy in terms of content. In Copenhagen, it was also found that Veto strategies did not solve the problems of Temelín and Transit. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have always made other proposals, and we have always been very constructive in this area. Sometimes you feel like the visionary Kassandra from ancient Greece, who had a double curse: On the one hand, she sees the future ahead, on the other hand, you do not believe those affected. We have already appeared in December 2001, i.e. last year, when the great statement in connection with the Brussels Convention appeared in full-page advertisements in newspapers, which doubted and also pointed out that this was not true. These ads were announced at the time: The Melker Agreement is legally binding and will be indictable before the ECJ. – At that time it was claimed that it would be indictable before the ECJ! For a year, the Federal Government, first and foremost Chancellor Schüssel, carried the Austrian population around the nose, because at that time everyone was already aware: [[Abg. Großruck: That's why they chose him!]] There is resistance from the EU-14, there is massive resistance, and from the Czech Republic there is no great interest in meeting these security requirements. – We know that, and there are also numbers that prove it. The estimates of the Austrian experts amount to 4 billion schillings or € 290 million for the relevant safety retrofits; the Czech estimates amount to 40 million schillings or € 2.9 million. That says a lot. And what remains of us now, after all the promises, all the announcements are broken up like a bubble of soap? We Greens have always said that it would have been better to pursue an offensive offer strategy, that it makes sense to enter into cooperations, to massively expand energy partnerships with the Czech Republic – at the moment the ridiculous amount – and that the exit will only succeed if, especially on the Czech side, resistance in the population is strong enough, although industry, especially an alternative energy economy, is so strong that it also forces this exit. And in the end, the economic insanity of this power plant is something that must be highlighted in particular. For a year, it has actually been failed to work on a solution bilaterally. I still have her in the ear, the great promises of the vice chancellor: I personally will travel there after the Czech elections and negotiate bilaterally! – And I have it not only in my ears, but also in front of me, the resolution of the National Council of July this year, a three-party resolution in which for the first time the offensive offer strategy towards the Czech Republic was also Austrian position, position of the Austrian Parliament. There was a clear green manuscript, namely going there, to form an exit offer for the first time. Only: Nothing of this has happened! Nothing happened! None of these promises has been fulfilled! And this is ultimately also the sadness, because it has now passed out again valuable time. The second block in Temelín went into operation, and the milker agreement is broken like a soap bubble. Finally, only the goodwill of the Czech side remains. It was similar with the transit question. As a strong Austrian Parliament, what actually prevents us from adopting motions for resolutions, reaching the end of the shoulder in the sense of defining a hard Austrian position? What prevents us from formulating that we do not just want a transitional solution, but perhaps a permanent solution for the affected population? What prevents us from deciding today that we still want to stick to the exit of Temelín and do not want to rely on a milker agreement that ultimately did not lead to more security? What prevents us, as the Austrian National Council, from doing everything that is possible in the country to make truck transit more difficult? What prevents us from establishing a ban on night-traveling, sectoral driving bans, appropriate provisions for the transport of dangerous goods? – There are dozens of possibilities! However, as you ask him, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the Freeman, let us reject this conclusion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a low-level shoulder closure, an shoulder closure that could ultimately be made in the energy question, in the anti-atomic policy also with the pro-nuclear energy Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, the strongest defender of these so-called safety standards. I am surprised that no one has seriously dealt with what is actually in this package, in this standard security package. There is not a single material safety criterion inside, no control, no sanctions, but that is the specification of the status quo. In the future, any state can define its security criteria as it likes. We have always warned about that – and this is really a Kassandra problem now – to engage in discussions on safety standards, probably knowing in which direction the Commissioner for Energy is on the way, without addressing the word “outing” in any form – remaining periods and so on – without having a guarantee that perhaps in the Convention, in the important constitutional process of the EURATOM Treaty, finally is finally dissolved as total Anachronism. All this is missing, all of this is missing in this proposal, and it is simply not reasonable to accept such a weak proposal, where we have today, as a new Parliament, as a strong Parliament, as many speakers have said today, in which parliamentaryism has a strong role. This is not the consensus in the Austrian population either. There would have been much more possible, and it is a pity once again. In this sense, we are continuing to try with constructiveness and, in turn, we are submitting a motion for a resolution on the reorientation of the Temelín policy. I've already said: What's going on? – One is the offensive take-up of offers, the supply strategy, and the other, with all those concerned, with the NGOs, to establish a new strategy with the national leaders concerned and to bring the outcome into the National Council within the framework of a summit. I therefore propose this motion for a resolution as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] In this sense, constructive and critical of how greens have always been and will always be, I ask you to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6516	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6540	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at the debate and tell you, Mrs Glavischnig, that you represent things that simply do not vote. I first commissioned a year ago that the milk agreement was clearly addressed in COREPER, and of course this was taken note of by the other colleagues there. I myself presented the agreement in the General Affairs Council last December and, of course, promised that it should be secured in a protocol to the accession agreements. This has been noted. I went to Brussels in addition – you will remember – and I mentioned the same question again in the accession negotiations, in the accession conference. This has been taken note of by the colleagues. You know the rule of law: Admission is usually accepted. So we could very well assume that this was also accepted. – That was the first point. The second point: The Czechs themselves – you have to say that too – have clearly come to know this agreement. We also negotiated with the Czechs in Copenhagen. Of course, you would have accepted exactly what was agreed, but reality is – and you know it –: Three nuclear countries, who are just afraid that a nuclear acquis will be adopted in the future, have refused this possibility. That's the background. That's what happened. It is by no means so that the Milk Agreement is broken like a soap bubble, as you said. It is rather true that we were able to insert a pass into the Copenhagen conclusions and a declaration of our own with the Czechs that the agreement tel quel – as it is – will be implemented. The other fourteen have also given their approval and, of course, want such an implementation. The Federal Chancellor has already said in his speech that our international law experts, but also the constitutional service experts here, see a possibility, even if this has not been explicitly stated, to enter into proceedings with the European Court of Justice if this becomes absolutely necessary. You know that there is now also a new ruling from the European Court of Justice, which at least goes in the direction that public safety and health standards can be taken into account here. If you say, in relation to the general issue of nuclear safety standards, that Loyola de Palacio or the European Commission has not put forward what I would like to ask you in return: What would happen? You'll do it if the nuclear states just don't agree here? . I think it would be particularly good and green if they tried to avoid this position with the other greens or with the other environmentally conscious parties in Europe, because only then is it possible to reach a unanimous decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6588	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Sima in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6607	Mr President. My reigns on the government bank! High house! Mrs. Foreign Minister, please allow me a brief replica. [[Abg. Grossruck: Mrs. Foreign Minister is not “lords”!]] Please, Mr President, let us at least hold back a little on the day of the fishing talks. I haven't even said a sentence yet, and you're calling in. That's incredible! Mrs. Foreign Minister, a short replica. – The mere mentioning of the milking process in COREPER or mentioning the milking process in the various councils has obviously brought nothing. That's just too little. The mentioning alone has not brought us anything, and that is what we see in the result. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel:... “Lordships”!]] – I can of course also say “womanhoods” next time, Mr. Bundeskanzler. But it just sounds a bit strange. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! They have been presented in Copenhagen for the missing anti-atomic policy in recent years. It is also not possible to conceal this urgent request that you have made today. The Temelín policy of recent years has been characterised by contradictions and dissensions, particularly within the government group. You have to say that. If you, Mr Spindelegger, conjure up the agreement here today and appeal to us to agree with you, I must say to you: Take a look at your yet and perhaps future coalition partner, because this was Austria's biggest problem: that we talked to two tongues abroad, so to speak, and that the FPÖ has constantly seen the counterproductive veto culture that has more than strained the negotiating climate. You know that very well, so come on your own doorstep! Federal Chancellor! They completed over a year ago a pact with then Czech Prime Minister Zeman. There have been three key points which have led you to celebrate as a great success: raising the security standards, anchoring the Treaty of Accession and accusing the European Court of Justice. The result has in itself been very thin, and we have always told you that this pact will not be a security upgrade, but if we look at it now, we must note that not one has been implemented by these three key points that you have promised us. None of these points has been implemented! This is really more than blamable for the Federal Government, and I am actually surprised that you are making yourself here today and are still dealing with this in a urgent request and giving it so openly. That's more than blamable. At Temelín you have reached absolutely nothing – unfortunately! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Foreign Minister! They meant that it was a great success to mention at least this bilateral agreement with a sentence in Copenhagen. But You know just as well as we do that the probability that anything else will be implemented by this Milker Agreement is equal to zero. This was very blamable, what happened in Copenhagen: Austria obviously tried very late, because there was still something else in it. The fronts were highly affected by the many veto threats previously mentioned. The negotiating climate was essentially destroyed. It's a mystery to me how you can still believe in the milker process. The milking process has been dissolved in air, it is no longer available, and I fear there will be no further security upgrade in Temelín. This is therefore very bitter, because it is very, very many people who are concerned because there have been long discussions about it and because I believe that it is up to the Austrian people to achieve something on this point. I'm sorry, but you really failed here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to speak now on a very important point, which is quite a sample of nails for the anti-atomic policy of this Federal Government, which is a key word EURATOM credit award. There has been a media-public discussion on this topic in recent weeks. It is, I think, known: The EU Commission intends to increase the EURATOM loan framework by €2 billion. These are to be used for new buildings, for completions, but also for safety upgrades. Just a small example: In the past, €680 million was used to complete K2/R4, the Chernobyl replacement reactor. Now my very clear question to you: Do you intend with your Minister of Finance Grasser to agree to this upgrade, yes or no? There has so far been no really clear statement from the ÖVP on this issue, and I believe that this is an important sample of nails for the future and also for how seriously you feel about this appeal to us, because here we are willing to take a common approach because we consider EURATOM to be the key to a pan-European nuclear exodus. Finally confess color and say what you will do there! I think this is an important issue, and I cannot imagine that you can really agree with the fact that 2 billion euros are going to go into the upgrading and completion of East German cars, which we will then fight in the national parliaments.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6671	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6690	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Federal Minister! ==References====External links== The accession decisions not only set a historic milestone in Europe on December, but, in my opinion, a millennia work has really been created. I believe that this is clearly and clearly to be held across all the party borders. It is a millennial work in terms of security policy, in terms of economic policy, perhaps also in terms of social policy, and I hope, also in terms of the environment. And precisely against this background, the historical significance of this event is, for me, the failure of the Austrian alliance. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. The two questions of existence, the two questions of life, are transport and the nuclear sector. As far as the latter is concerned, I would like to confront you, Mr Bundeskanzler, with your personal statements, which you made a year ago, namely on 12. December, here in this house. That is because it was a question of holding back, once again, to what extent Austria has created a new regulation through the milk process, through the Brussels Treaty on the nuclear policy issue, which really takes into account the security of life of the Austrians, especially the Upper Austrians. Federal Chancellor! What did you say then? – I quote the original word by Dr. Schüssel: “We have insisted that the conclusions will be incorporated into the Act of Accession..., and thus we have practically a new primary right from the accession of the Czech Republic...” You put that here a year ago as a fact in space! ==References== ==References====External links== Session, you said: This indictability “is only because we have ensured that it will be included in the Act of Accession and can therefore actually go to the European Court of Justice after accession.” That's what you said: It is ensured that we can go to the European Court of Justice. – One page further read in this Minutes that you have recorded: ‘This will include all commitments entered into by the Czech Republic in relation to the Temelín nuclear power plant.’ That's what you assured me here, black on white, it's to read. And you put one more on it, because you still formulated: “And with that, picks’s, and that’s important!” – Original quote bowl. Federal Chancellor! With these statements here in front of this House you have really declassified yourself a year later in view of today's situation. Who can still trust that what you say is true? Who can still trust that the positions you indicate here in this House will really be respected? Who can still trust in Austria that during accession negotiations what has been promised here a year earlier will really be implemented? – No one in the face of the present situation on the 20th century. December! Federal Chancellor! This really made you play a maximum of credibility. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am curious, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, how you still want to push around the row. You know exactly, the Veto card doesn't fall. You know that we have not done the homework, either in transit or in the field of nuclear policy. We haven't got a truck toll yet, the announced is far too low. We do not yet have the ban on nuclear power imports in Austria. We have still not done our homework in other areas, which EURATOM funds and the use of EURATOM funds have reached. And with these unfinished homeworks, do you want to break down in Brussels during the final accession negotiations?- Oh, my God! I want to know how to do that, I doubt it! The balance sheet is clear: You have failed to lose your Nimbus as a negotiator and unfortunately also left the Austrian interests on the left!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6771	The next speaker was Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6789	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I would first like to refer to Mr Klaus Wittauer, who spoke here of support and non-polemization of the transit question. The Minister of Transport needs the support of everyone, he said. Mr Wittauer! I have here an APA message from the Tyrolean FPÖ, which reads as follows: “The Tyrolean Freedommen have strongly criticized German Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel (V) in the transit question on Friday. From the very beginning, this one has pursued an absolutely harmful transit policy. Schüssel left Tyrol in the rain and tried to sell it as a success, said FP Landesobmann, Labg. Willi Tilg.’ This is for supporting and non-polemizing. Federal Chancellor Schüssel is the head of the government in which your transport minister also does his work more or less. Dear Ladies and gentlemen! After Copenhagen and the transit negotiations in Brussels, the transit talks conducted by the Austrian Federal Government have unfortunately failed. The EU is committed to carrying the transit treaty to its grave, and the Austrian Federal Government is in agreement here. Unfortunately, we are facing a traffic jam today. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's APA report shows what Italian transport minister Lunardi has to say on the transit question. The following is a quote: ‘Italy will not submit to ecopoints’. Minister for Transport: Italian companies can no longer accept further disadvantages. ... “On the contrary, we expect a premium as a compensation for the disadvantages that we had to face up to today.” – This is what Italian Foreign Minister Lunardi, ladies and gentlemen, says. Now you have to ask: What is more important in this country, transit goods or the Austrian population? – The Austrian population will no longer accept what Italian entrepreneurs and transport operators can no longer accept! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Health disadvantages caused by noise, by exhaust gases, by the increase in NOX emissions, that is no longer acceptable, ladies and gentlemen! It's enough! It's enough traffic through Tyrol! At last you have to decide: What do we want? Do we want to support the truck lobby, or do we support the people in this country who live along these transit routes? In any doubt, ladies and gentlemen, you have to decide for the people and not for the goods on the street! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just so you can see what that means: A VCÖ study reports that a truck avalanche will break into Austria, that in Austria by 2010 a tripled truck traffic will be expected and the truck load on the burner will rise by 16 percent. Thus, in 2010 at the Brenner on an average working day, 6 600 trucks would roll through the valley and at Semmering 6 400 trucks, which are plus 248 percent, in Bruck at Leitha 7 700 trucks, a plus of 235 percent, and over the A1 node St. Pölten even 14 500 trucks, a plus of 73 percent. This burden, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be calculated whether the load in Vienna on the tangent or in Tyrol runs over the burner. The burden is too high, and it is enough, and there is indeed a need for a merger of all Austrian political forces in order to counter this, and there of course also the partner countries, with Who we have to talk to. The partner countries are not opponents whether they are Italians or Germans. The Tyrolean head of state Van Staa wrote in a press release, he felt disadvantaged and left out of Vienna. He also blames Germany. On the other hand, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, the Italian Foreign Minister, blames Italy, which has obviously blocked everything. Ladies and gentlemen! We need partners in Europe, and we must point out that this is about people living along transit routes in our country. We will not allow Austria and the people in this country to be burdened even more in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nor will we allow Euro 4 vehicles to travel without ecopoints from 2005 onwards, because this is the step in the complete liberalisation of truck traffic, and road freight transport and the related loads can thus continue to increase unabated. Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean for the Inntal? The Transit Forum Tirol writes: It is already true in Tyrol that 280 000 Tyroleans in the Inntal must live in areas designated by the Tyrolean government because the pollutants have long exceeded the limits of the Immission Protection Act – air. Ladies and gentlemen! That's too much! It's enough! That's not how we're going to be able to continue! The Austrian Federal Government is required! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6891	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1/A (E) tabled by Mr Spindelegger, Mr Mag. Schweitzer, colleagues and colleagues on the outcome of the Copenhagen European Council on 12 and 13. December. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 1.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. A. To a fellow Member concerning the non-satisfactioning results of the Copenhagen European Council on 12 and 13. December. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, on the reorientation of the Temelín policy of the Federal Government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e6958	We shall now proceed to the debate on the request of the honourable Members. Kogler, colleagues, on the establishment of a committee of inquiry in connection with the operations in the so-called catch-hunting post-purchasing process. Since this request has now been distributed to all Members of Parliament, it does not need to be read by the author. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7065	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7093	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you sit here today in a different role. I am going to address you indirectly, but that is why I am drawing attention to this. [[President Dr. Khol shall take over the chairmanship.]] Why is this committee of inquiry so important to us? Why does he seem to be absolutely inevitable? I mean this without a polemic. I don't have the feeling that we've got to keep chief anchors here, but it's about something quite simple: This is about the need for information, which everyone and everyone should have or at least have. Why? . I should like to remind you that, due to the sustainable pressure of the Green Group, it is first and foremost aware that a procurement act of such size as the planned purchase of the interception hunters is a provision, namely § 45 para. 4 The Federal Budget Act, according to which a federal financial authority, i.e. our consent, is necessary for this purchase. That is why we should take good care of the background to this procurement in good time. This is not a question of opposition or government, but it is simply about the need for information – I am referring to information law, but I am also saying, after I have made you aware of this, that information is your duty. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is sufficient evidence that the so-called type decision did not only comply with the legal and procurement provisions. Rather, there is serious evidence that these provisions have been circumvented or clearly broken. I can only take one in advance: The tendering procedure provided for in point 4.1.3.8 provides that more or less quantities are not permitted in this procurement. are. I now invite everyone and everyone to look at the offer collection of the Republic of Austria, which is on the pult behind Klubobmann Van der Bellen. [[The speaker points to a folder on the MEPs' desk.]] I've already marked it for everyone who wants to know it now or maybe should know it, for the future: Point 4.1.3.8, ‘multi or smaller quantities’, is the heading. Lapidare statement: not allowed. What does that mean? Not that I now prefer 24 instead of 18 interceptors, it's not about it, it's about the rights of the inferior providers. That's quite clear. These did not have the opportunity to participate in the model ‘18 pieces’. This would not be so exciting, if not the Federal Government itself, Federal Chancellor, had not determined the service of your home, or at least had obtained an opinion indicating that the massive problem is facing the Republic. This may even go so far as to force the Republic purely to buy twice, namely that the rights of the suspected or supposed best bidder are tangled, which then has a right to a purchase obligation. Who, please, will assume this responsibility? There is a silent cartel on this question, which I am sorry to say – and there are many other questions that are interesting; I have now only taken one out – and this silence cartel leads to the Members being in no way informed of what the background of this deal is. That is why I invite you – no matter whether government or opposition – to agree to this request for the setting up of an investigation committee, because this is the right place for it to give the opportunity to explain these things. There is no other possibility, because the other committees of Parliament, such as the Committee dealing with federal finances, have not received the documents on counter-actions that are now quoted everywhere in the media. Therefore, a committee of inquiry would be necessary in order to be able to verify this so-called wondrous financing model in a way. On the other hand, one can read in the “trend” that those companies that always like to quote you – including you, Federal Chancellor – say that with this funding platform they do not want to have anything on the hat. The Magna chief logically or rightly says: “In our industry, you get a job if you’re good. If not, then not.” In this statement there is a lot of wisdom, and it also points to anachronism in the counter-businesses. The head of KTM says: “A cleaner!” Someone hasn't even talked to them yet! And these companies are constantly being run as potential counterparts, Minister Bartenstein? They wanted to put the processes on the Internet. Please do so at last so that at least transparency exists at this level! So it doesn't fit in in the back and in the front, and that should make us further suffocated beyond the present. For example, we should be proud that, in order to return to the call for tender, the American provider Lockheed Martin with his “F-16” no longer came to the very shortest election. This is already very strange – Minister Scheibner is now no longer here and can unfortunately not now be asked about it –: The aircraft model, for which we also need it in Austria, is the world's most widely used model, should not be in line with our call for tender?- Oh, my God! – Either the call for tender has been for the proverbial Hugo – but I don’t think so – or in the awarding of something has gone wrong at the stage. So it smells of several cracks after sliding. I'm not going to find out. It was none other than the Minister of Finance who said up to two days before the legendary Council of Ministers decision that the most economical is the most important. It didn't fit into his picture that interceptors are bought, but at least the most economical solution had to be sought. What has come out is by far the most expensive solution, and that is not understandable. I ask you: What do we, as the Republic, do we do to make such a call if it becomes a major tool afterwards? Who is responsible for this? Who is responsible for the expected potential additional costs? This is precisely a reason for an investigation committee per se. – Thank you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is at least one reason to examine the matter in good time. That's my concern today! It is not a charge committee, it is a committee that may be the only one here in the House to be able to assess things in good time. I have to tell you that not only do we have these suspicions. I am not now referring to the processes within the Freedom Party, where certain public accusations are dealt with very easily – that is also interesting – but I refer to several advertisements that have reached the public prosecutor's office until November. This raises serious and massive accusations that are highly in need of information before we may give our consent here. It's not about very nice things. It must not be that we close our eyes to it and fall into this matter, just because, admittedly, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has meant that the matter will be held out of the election campaign and then it will be decided afterwards. If we have now failed or have the chance to be failed, then we should and, as I mean, we should take advantage of them. That is why I also hope that you will agree to this request. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it was only time to reduce the cost of this project by 1 per cent – and this is easily possible through efficient control work – it is not about pro or counter-absorbent hunters – then we would save more money than all the municipalities in their constituencies you represent here have counted together on annual budgets. I would also like to say to Mr Grillitsch, because we have made a duel during the election campaign: A single percent is that, and that should actually increase your willingness to agree to this request. I really want to know what else to hide. If things can be clarified, then it's good. If an incentive is created to make procurement more efficient, it must also be good. If it comes out that some things have gone wrong, then one will probably have to stop the procurement process, because it cannot be, Federal Chancellor, that we are putting on such a work and then nobody will worry about it and the Republic says: Thank you, with whatever motives! I have reached my conclusion – you may have overlooked this, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7235	No, not at all, I'm just generous!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7251	My final sentence is: Give your conscience a chance – and thus the way for this committee of inquiry! You agree! You will still need the information that is being promoted there. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] - That's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7287	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7305	Mr President, Dr Andreas Khol! Ladies and gentlemen! The present application for the establishment of a committee of inquiry is once again an action by the Greens and the Germans in order to obtain more information under the pretext of bringing light to the case. Mr Kogler! Were you yourself and your colleagues in no committee, were you not in any discussion about what this was about? – We do not hold this debate for the first time! Now to the accusations. – In the past, you have raised the accusation that the calls for tenders have been tailored to the ‘grips’. It was said that the federal army, of course, was geared towards the “grips. ” Now the decision has turned out differently, and now there is a flat -rate suspicion that something must be lazy, as the choice did not fall on the ‘ grips’, but on the ‘Eurofighter’. In order to be able to justify the whole thing – you have done very hard with it, I have listened to you – something has to be wrong now in the counter-businesses, although you know that especially with such sensitive procurements – and procurements for the federal army – I give you the right to do it – everything is carefully examined. In this case, a 60-member Commission has found that. In terms of counter-businesses, compensations were invited to the social partners in the Federal Ministry. A ten-member Commission has considered whether it is true that 200 percent of counter-actions are planned, or not, and a vote ratio of seven to three has been decided for the Eurofighter. I'll tell you one thing: For the Austrian People's Party and for the government of Schüssel I and also for the government of Schüssel II, safety in our Republic is at the forefront not only in the areas of health, social security, pensions, but also in the safety of our people in the country of Austria, and this includes the airspace as well as the soil. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I know from my colleague Mr Pilz and other people – in the committees and in the public there were enough such statements – that they are in principle against the German army and believe that 6,000 men would be enough to provide security for Austria. We disagree. There is no country that does not control its airspace, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the Greens, but also other Germans. There is no country, whether in an alliance or neutral, that does not control its airspace. Every country controls its airspace! Ladies and gentlemen! What are we doing on the borders? – We control the trucks, we control the cars, we control the green border – rightly because we want to know what is happening at our borders, and we want to research this more precisely with downstream controls. That is why appropriate air control is also needed. I should also like to draw your attention to the fact that, of course, Switzerland, Sweden and Finland also have fighter aircraft or interceptors to monitor and even defend their airspace – we are far away. As far as counter-businesses are concerned, I can tell you that the so-called secret study on which rumors are now being used was already read in June in the ‘FORMAT’ and that there is no way to speak of a secret in connection with it. All that is now being put forward against the 'Eurofighter' decision, for example, by you, Mr Kogler, in favour of the 'F-16', which is the third possibility in Question comes, is really very interesting: Because the first possibility from your point of view has not come about, but the second one, that's why you are now drawing attention to the third possibility! We inform Parliament, we inform the committees, and we invite you to find yourself there. We will not agree to your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7388	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. His speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7406	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am deeply convinced that all the ladies and gentlemen who start their work here today will do so with a great sense of responsibility and take the work here very seriously – a work consisting of legislation and control. This is extremely important in a democratic and parliamentary system. Ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to clear up with the Marquis, which was invented for party-tactic reasons, which is to say that only government is the perception of responsibility and the one who is in opposition is pressing ahead with responsibility. It can't be like that! In countries, Mr Bundeskanzler, where only government is controlled and not controlled, it looks out and does so accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many instruments of control. An important, strong control instrument is the Examining Committee, and I would like to ask in the alternation of an election log: What if this doesn't belong? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What, if not this, is calling for a committee of inquiry: the largest arms business in the Second Republic? It is a arms business which is particularly delicate and particularly problematic, and I appeal to the control responsibility of all the ladies and gentlemen here in the House. This should go beyond the political question, ladies and gentlemen. I have had the feeling with my previous speaker that he is only concerned with the political question of political access. That is why I fear that the voting behaviour of the EIA will be so, because the EIA is for the interception hunters, and this despite poor economic conditions, despite alarming unemployment rates, despite the financial problems in the social and health sectors – but, it always says, we have the compensation business! – Notable economists call the ‘Voodoo economy’. Ladies and gentlemen! I read here on the cover page of a Styrian ÖVP newspaper “Civil Hunters Give Steirers Euro-billions.” – I must say: [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date]] This is a great Christmas gift! This can only be recommended to all other federal states. But there was another idea in the election campaign, ladies and gentlemen, that the economy will finance the interception hunters through a consortium. – So if these compensation transactions are voodoo-economics, ladies and gentlemen, then this platform is zombie-economics, because there is no such thing among the living! Thus, the ÖVP is in favour of spending more than € 2 billion – without any follow-up costs – for interceptors, whereas the SPÖ has other needs in mind. In the procurement of the “drugs” – I would like to get ahead of a possible call – the situation was another: It was a different financial situation, and above all the geopolitical situation was different than we find it today, because now we – and there I am quite the opinion of Professor Van der Bellen – are surrounded by friends. It would be important instead to invest in the transport infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens are against the purchase of the Eurofighters. I am grateful for this request. If the Greens hadn't brought him in, maybe the SPÖ would have brought him in. But what about the FPÖ's attitude? Ladies and gentlemen! There is a lot of day-to-day business at the FPÖ. I am already very interested in the versions of the FPÖ-Redner. How did the former Finance Minister of FPÖ, Grasser, behave? He said first: No, we don't have money for that! Later he said: Yes, we take the most expensive variant! This change of mind should not be examined, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! Later, he said he wasn't actually for that. In the newspaper “The Press” – and this is not a socialist battle sheet with God – it then said: ‘Grasser...: ‘Wants for costs used F16’’. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an investigation! What are there for pre-contracts, for transactions? How is an exit possible? Is there any way out? – These are the questions that are of great interest to taxpayers and taxpayers. A committee of inquiry is the right body to clarify these issues. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ will accept this request. [[Abg. Donabauer: This is no surprise!]] The SPÖ will continue to be passionately opposed to the interceptors, Mr Cot. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, we have quite different plans when it comes to what we are financing with the taxpayer's money. We need this money urgently for social cohesion, for social security and for the best possible labour market policy in our country and do not want to spend it on superfluous war equipment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7455	Next, Mr Bösch, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is speaking. His speaking time is limited to 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7473	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler and Mr Herb, you have a small error in explaining your request: You have found here that you have made this request, or you have supported it, because you intend to clarify a matter. That's not true! You make this request, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, and you support him, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ to just play your opposition games here. You can't expect us liberals to vote in the frozen posthorn tones of your election campaign to help you get on your feet. Ladies and gentlemen! The procurement process of the interceptors took place with the possible and necessary transparency. They were able to accompany this in Parliament's committees, but they were also able to understand it publicly. Ministers of Defence, Finance and Economic Ministers have examined and accompanied these proceedings and have made decisions. The government has taken decisions to do so. The political process is also a clear one. On the basis of the discussions that have taken place throughout the Republic, this government has broken down the procurement process and the new government will examine the situation and decide how it is doing. This is politically a very clear process. However, Mr Kogler, this has been clearly accompanied. The Court of Auditors has examined the first part of the procurement process – you know it very well – and it is also examining the second part. The other allegations you make on the grounds of your Requests have been sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office; you know exactly that. It has also examined this and rejected it as an injunction. This proposal, which you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, are here and which you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, support, is completely unnecessary. They also know that all these processes have not only been examined but are still being examined and that this question is also politically subject to a new assessment. In principle, I can say to the FPÖ that we will continue to operate the affairs of national defence consistently even during the legislative period now beginning, and this will include a functioning airspace surveillance for us, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7524	Mr Pilz was the last speaker to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7543	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have noted with satisfaction that the Freedom Party still wants to bear defence responsibilities. Until this meeting, I did not know who of you could do it at all. Now someone's found himself in the last offer. Well, Mr Bösch, we will have the discussion with you. A small replica: The Court of Auditors has not examined the procurement process. That was not possible at all. He has only checked the tender documents and nothing else at all. Only the tender itself has been examined and not the procurement process! The area where it started to smell so strictly was the beginning of the procurement to this day, which was the free savings programme: Only the cheapest will be taken! – There was the Free Minister of Finance on behalf of his former head of the Group, who said: The cheapest is the most expensive. If we want to save, we have to buy the most expensive! And there was much more. You know it, and you know the history of compensation business. You know all of this! If something smells bad, then it won't be better if two parties, who already understand themselves surprisingly well again, put one blanket after another over it. You must imagine: Under your black and blue ceilings, you want to continue. It's going to smell worse, we're going to get even more behind what's actually under the covers, and sometime we're going to get the investigation committee. Sooner or later, the great free elections promise “Close with the interceptors! A head of state and his party guarantee it!” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Until then, I wonder: What's the matter with airspace surveillance? Every day, American fighter and transport aircraft fly, in part, through the Austrian airspace to already ongoing combat operations in the two so-called “no-fly zones” in the south and north of Iraq. The Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are fully aware that there are crossings on the border and beyond the border of Austrian legality. The “drugs” remain on the ground, and the relevant ministers remain under cover. That's what I'm asking myself: What about airspace surveillance if, when American friends prepare their next war and partly already lead, only one command applies, namely, stay on the ground and look away?- Oh, my God! Yes, you could now show whether you're serious about airspace monitoring! But it is obviously as inseparable to you as it is with saving, with security, with the zero deficit and with a serious policy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, as you continue to do so, there will be the Committee of Inquiry. Today it will be a nail test for the Freedom Party. The liberal nail will once again bend thoroughly. But the liberal nail bends until it breaks. This will be the case at the latest at the next election. Then, if you continue to do so, there will certainly be no longer any possibility from your side to send a semi-competent person to the Committee on Defence of the State. This can only be done well by Austrian security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7597	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an investigative committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to show this by a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7630	Ladies and gentlemen! Let me now explain to you the further process of our deliberations. We will now adopt a written partial protocol of our deliberations concerning the establishment of the main committee and then conclude this meeting. I'm gonna interrupt for 10 minutes. In these 10 minutes, the main committee will be established in local VI, and all the institutions and the Federal Army Board of Appeal will be elected. The next meeting will be held at which we will elect the Board of Appeal and the Council of Europe. That is, it is now necessary to concentrate. The President of the Federal Republic is waiting. We said we were coming at around 4.30 p.m. Now to the official text: I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the official minutes relating to item 4 concerning the election of the main committee so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘There is a desire for reading the Official Protocol of the 1. Meeting of the National Council on Agenda item 4 on the election of the main committee before: TO point 4: Election of the Main Committee The number of members of the main committee shall be fixed unanimously with 32 members. (After that, the club of the ÖVP 14 members, the SPÖ 12 members club, the FPÖ 3 members and the Green 3 members.) On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the ÖVP Club: Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Auer, Karl Donabauer, Franz Eßl, Dr. Werner Fasslevend, Silvia Fuhrmann, Fritz Grillitsch, Mag. Karin Hakl, Dr. Andreas Khol, Mag. Helmut Kukacka, Maria Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Mag. Walter Tancsits, Ingrid Turkovic-Wendl. From the SPÖ Club: Dr. Josef Cap, Dr. Caspar Einm, Christian Faul, Dr. Heinz Fischer, Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer, Mag. Christine Lapp, Mag. Christine Muttonen, DDr. Erwin Niederwieser, Stefan Prehauser, Mag. Barbara Prammer, Peter Schieder, Dr. Peter Wittmann. From the FPÖ Club: May. Karl Schweitzer, Dr. Helene Partik-Pablé, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn. From the Green Club: Dr. Evelin Lichtenberger, Mag. Ulrike Lunacek, Dr. Peter Pilz.” Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2002-12-20-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00001_d7e7786	At today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications 1/A to 27/A and Questions 1/J to 15/J. Before I close the meeting, I announce that the main committee will hold a constitutional first meeting at the local VI immediately after the end of this meeting. The beginning of the next 2. The meeting of the National Council will be displayed by introductions. I think it'll be that far in 10 minutes. The agenda of the 2nd meeting. The meeting of the National Council will be delivered by way of the clubs and will also be placed in the hall. I now ask all members of the main committee to go to local VI. This meeting is closed.
