ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5590	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to take the places. I'll open the 91. The National Council meeting, in which I will also make a fishing observation. The official protocols of the 88. Meeting of 12. ==References====External links== Meeting of 13. In December 2001, the Parliament's Directorate remained present and without any opposition, and is therefore considered approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Hagenhofer, Dr. Hlavac, Mag. Posch and Reheis. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5627	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Arnold Grabner has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Peter Marizzi instead. Since the election is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make the fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the scribe, the new representative becomes his fishing observation with the words "I vow to do." I now ask the author, Mr Auer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5666	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5681	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5697	I warmly welcome Mr Marizzi in our midst. (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) I also announce that the Federal Electoral Authority has indicated that Mr Abge-orderneter Mag. Gilbert Trattner waived his mandate. In this case, there is not yet a vote for a successor. We have only 182 members of the National Council today. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5721	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Karl-Heinz Grasser is appointed by the Secretary of State at the Federal Ministry of Finance Dr. Alfred Finz. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5753	We are now coming to the current hour on the subject: "OECD-PISA study on the education system confirms good performance to Austrian students" The first is Mr Amon. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Then there will be an opinion from the Federal Minister, who will not exceed 10 minutes, and then a debate will be held. Mr Amon, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5787	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have chosen this topic – the President has read it – "OECD-PISA study on the education system confirms good achievements to Austrian students" because we meant that not only should the negative messages dominate the political debate, but if the Austrians cut off very well in one area, then we should do so on the topic of a current hour – and that is what we are doing today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this program for International Student Assessment, 260 000 students have participated beyond Europe, and 31 states have participated in this comparative study, this PISA study. The performance and performance of pupils between 15 and 16 years of age were tested. After completing their compulsory schooling, the years of life have taken place, and there have also been 5,000 Austrian students. The results of the PISA study give the Austrian students a very, very good witness – but not only to them, but above all to the Austrian education policy as well as to the Austrian teachers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It has been found that Austria is the best German-speaking country in the field of reading skills and Austria is the fifth place within the European Union. It was also interesting to note that the more complicated the tasks became, the better the achievements of Austrian students in this field. In the field of natural sciences, we are also the best German-speaking country. We are in third place within the European Union and have eighth place within the Western industrial nations. And in the field of mathematics, for example, we were able to improve by four places, compared to the results of the Third International Maths and Science Study in 1995. I think this is a good proof that Austrian education policy with our Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrer is on a good, on a right path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You can also read very well from the study that it is the Austrian pupils and the Austrian teachers who do not just have to shy the international comparison, but – on the contrary! – that they like to make this international comparison: After all, we have achieved a 100 percent return rate in our participation in this study. That too is quite unique. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] This study also shows that the Austrian teachers show a high level of performance and that they, as well as the parents of the children, place great importance on performance. And precisely because this international comparison is so important to us – I will come to see why it is so important to us – I mean that the path of our education policy to a reliable school, to a school where performance is worth something, and to a school where one can rely on the fact that, on the basis of a corresponding degree achieved, one can also get a corresponding qualification along the way that this path of the reliable school is also the right way. I believe that this PISA study is necessary that this Programme for International Student Assessment is therefore necessary because it promotes international comparison and competition between education systems, because it is also an important instrument for the evaluation of education systems, including for the evaluation of school experiments, in particular through a three-year rhythm within which this...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5865	Mr Amon, one second. – It’s nice that the good luck at the beginning of a session is so great, but whoever is the first speaker, he’s having a hard time. I ask you to take a little account of it! Please continue, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5889	I would like to thank you many times for more peace in the hall, Mr President, especially because my vote will also have a certain degree of protection. I believe that this study is also useful because it also makes it possible to object to the criticism of the education system. Just the previous debates on education have shown that there has been a great deal of criticism of the education system. There have been, for example, abuses of teachers that we have always definitely and clearly rejected, because we think it unfair to attack and condemn teachers on a flat-rate basis. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Brosz: FPÖ!]] However, it has also been very strongly criticised by the SPÖ and the Greens that we would save the Austrian education system broken and that the quality of it would suffer. The PISA study shows – and therefore this objectivity is so good and necessary – that we spend the most on education in the European comparison and among the OECD countries with the tax funds provided. With this policy, this government can definitely be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Education is very, very valuable to us, and we are spending more on it than the United States of America, than Denmark, Switzerland and all the other countries that have taken part in this comparative study PISA, as well as in the more liberal-left magazine "The mirror" was very nice to read. However, the PISA study also proves that the criticism that has come from the opposition, education policy has deteriorated in recent years, is simply and simply unjust. Elisabeth Gehrer is the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a matter of giving thanks to the Commission for its work on this subject. At the time, there was a study, the Third International Maths and Science Study, in which our students were also tested, in the fields of mathematics and natural sciences. In 1995 Austria took the tenth and eighth place in the natural sciences in this international comparative study in mathematics. According to PISA study, which was conducted in 2001, we improved in mathematics by four places and also in the natural sciences. Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be a coincidence, but it must also have been the education policy of the Austrian People's Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The education policy Elisabeth Gehrers, which focuses on quality, but also especially on school partnership instruments, is the absolutely right way, because the PISA study also makes it very clear that on the one hand, the school climate and on the other hand, a disciplinary climate are crucial. The school climate is particularly concerned with the question of the dialogue climate and the motivation for learning, as well as with the mutual assistance of students, and with the disciplinary climate, it is about the possibility of undisturbed work and listening to what the teachers say. I think that this combination is not least achieved by the introduced behavioural agreements, in which we place very much on the one hand on a school partnership climate, on the other hand, but also on the other hand on a certain willingness to do so, and that we are absolutely right. Finally, it should be said that the success of an education system is not the external form of the school organisational structure, but primarily the willingness of teachers to do so. And that the Austrian teachers show a high degree of performance, has not least been demonstrated by this comparative study. I do not refer to a debate on total schools either, just because sometimes it is falsely said that total schools had been so well cut off in this study. [[Abg. Brosz: Really!]] – That’s not true! The worst have been cut off indistinct total schools. Similarly, you could argue – and I am therefore at the end of the sentence, Mr President – that the fact that the East Asian tiger states, with over 50 students in one class, have cut off sensationally well, would be an argument for increasing the number of students in school.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5965	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e5981	Let us therefore consider this study differentiated and let us not make the Austrian education system mediocre!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6011	Mrs Gehrer spoke on an opinion from the government side, which should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6032	Mr President. High house! International studies have an important task, namely to ensure quality by giving feedback on the quality of a school system. There is always a discussion about the fact that it is not allowed to make tests that it is a necessity for students to check too much. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is very necessary that we take part in these international studies so that we have comparisons. I also think it is necessary for us to ensure quality in schools within Austria through such checks. The already mentioned TIMS study from 1995, which showed us that there are some shortcomings in the scientific field, for example among the 14-15 year olds, has led us to question the methodology of science teaching in Austria. It has led us to implement a project for a new methodology in the field of science, in which it works in a way that is different from the one before it is offered to constructivist teaching: not traditional teaching, which consists of knowledge transfer and repetition, but a teaching in which a student is given knowledge and thus needs to solve tasks, thus a new form of teaching. This was the effect of the TIMS study on the Austrian school system. The PISA study has now produced a gratifying result: We're good! But I say quite openly and honestly: We want to get better! What can be taken from this PISA study? – First of all, from this study, we are the best among the German-speaking countries – see the big discussion in Germany that broke out there – that we are at the forefront in Europe, but that we still need to improve in order to get to the world’s top class. That's a challenge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In my opinion, this study has shown that very good achievements are provided by teachers at Austrian schools. In international discussions, it is also important that the school be taken seriously in Austria. It doesn't matter when you get to school and whether you're going to school. It is also a matter of whether to participate in the class or not. It doesn't matter if you do homework and learn or not. This laisser-fair style, which is, for example, maintained in some schools in Germany, has shown its consequences by the fact that, in particular where there is an undifferentiated overall school system, pupils have achieved much worse performance. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to use this study to say that this is a plea for an overall school, I'll tell you very soberly: It has been shown in many studies that the organisation of the school is not decisive for the performance that is provided there. The key to performance is the quality and sustainability of teaching, and the school is taken seriously. And this is happening in Austria! It is therefore absurd to discuss the introduction of an overall school. Organisational effort is not worth it, and this does not improve performance. My aim is to further improve our good, differentiated school system with its 100% permeability! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another task we take from the PISA study is the following: The Austrian students do good reading. But it also shows that there are children in every age age age who cannot read. The study found that 4 percent of children are almost unable to read and that 11 percent have problems with it. We made a project out of it, that is, we want the children's reading performance already in the 3. People's school class by reading tests and giving targeted support to those who are struggling, because reading can mean learning, and that's most important to me: that the young people, when they leave the folk school, master this cultural technique by a hundred percent. Ladies and gentlemen! To do this, you need to run tests. These tests are not there to attest to the student that he can't do anything but to show the teacher where there are still shortcomings. I ask you for your support if we define performance standards when we propose reading tests, which are then in Austria in the 3. classes of folk schools are conducted so that we can see the children's reading skills. Ladies and gentlemen! This study is a fine confirmation of the good work, but it is also a call for even better in areas where we still recognize deficits. My concern is to make improvements with all the parliamentary parties over the next few months. These include the upper-level reform, performance standards, reading tests and various projects in the school sector. I ask you for your support!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6114	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that each speaker has a speaking time of 5 minutes each. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6141	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the result of this PISA study is a good witness, a beautiful success, especially for the Austrian students – some of them are present today, and one should really stress their success here – and on the other hand for the teachers who are not being shocked here – even not at all by the opposition; as you should rather ask the liberals – and also – that has not been emphasized so far – for the parents, especially the mothers, who contribute a lot to the school performance of their children, learn with the children and promote the children. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, yes!]] From this point of view, parents are also grateful for their work with the children! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Amon and Mrs Gehrer: However, this study is not a reason for self-satisfaction and no reason at all for self-satisfaction for you, for the work of this Federal Government, which has been done for two years. It is not supposed to be adorned with foreign feathers, not even to distract you from your own failure. For the result that we have been on the table in the PISA study – the 15-, 16-year-olds have been tested – the course was set ten years ago and earlier! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike today, the promotion of children, equal opportunities for all children and equal access to education were important social objectives and also objectives of school policy. Unfortunately, these times are over. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Today, you from the government parties set different priorities, you set the course in a completely different direction: You save the education system broken, and you take one step after another to break the same access to the education system. [[Abg. Amon: The budget figures are from this year!]] Ladies and gentlemen! After two years of black and blue coalition, the situation at the schools already looks quite different: There are much bigger classes and fewer teachers. And what do larger classes and fewer teachers mean for the children, for the students? – Less promotion! Teachers have less opportunity to address and specifically promote the individual child, the individual youth. In other words, on the basis of the results of this study, we have to ask ourselves the question today: If you continue to set the course, how will the PISA study look like in ten years? What will the school look like in ten years' time, and what opportunities will our children and young people have in the next ten years? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: This is unheard of!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You are already in the process of taking the next step in the direction of caputt savings. The Minister of Finance has announced this week – probably from vacation, Mauritius – that ministers' discretion expenditure is to be reduced by 3 percent. Mrs. Federal Minister! And what are you doing? – In an internal newsletter, you will already inform that these cuts will be passed on to the schools. More will be saved in schools than has been saved so far. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How many have been released?]] They indicate that structural measures and the effort to do so should be saved. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mrs Kuntzl! How many have been released? What of your prophecies?]] This means a further saving of saying and writing 13.7 million € or 188 million schilling! Another 188 million schillings less money for schools, although the budget resources are already so short! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What has happened to your prophecies, to your obscurity?]] This also means less money for heating costs. I hardly dare to express myself here, because it sounds so unlikely that in some schools the children sit with fists. No new, modern teaching equipment... – Yes, you laugh! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: Please! Where?]] They laugh at the kids who are cold. That's "super" of you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Rarely so laughing!]] No modernisation of the physics halls, no modern equipment with computers in the school! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Azerbaijan!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] No modern and good conditions for children and students in schools! - You laugh, I find it to cry. Your policy is at the expense of the children, and you are simply going over it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kiss: The Villacher Fasching comes first!]] And all of this, although in a letter to the school directors in October 2001, the Federal Minister of Education announced that the school budget will be available without delay. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Condemned, the Federal Managing Director, according to § 111!]] [[Abg. Kiss: Let the Kuntzl appear at Villacher Fasching!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! This is once again a break from your side, and he goes once again at the expense of the children and young people in this country! [[Abg. May. Shut up!]] I hold it here with the responsible EU Commissioner...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6402	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6418	... which Austria also exhorted: Those who do not invest in education miss the future. – You miss your future from the government parties, but above all you miss the future of young people and children, and that is your fault. (Applause from the SPÖ. - Abg. May. Schweitzer – towards the Abg. Dr. Cap –: She has no idea! Joseph, why don't you send the Antoni? He knows himself!)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6448	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6469	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am pleased that I am able to talk about education today, even for the reason that my family works for one half of the economy, but half of it belongs to the teacher’s level. My sister has been teaching at an Austrian gymnasium for many years and is one of that group of teachers who prepare themselves with the highest level of commitment – far more than the normally necessary use, far beyond a 40-hour weekend – for individual programs for the students, which is thanks to the great interest of their students and also through good results. Like some others, she was awarded the title "Teacher of the Year" last year, she is delighted and justifying her commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is exactly what the PISA study is showing. It points out that less of the present school systems, the number of school students or certain investments are crucial to the success of the pupils, but rather the commitment and achievements of the Austrian teachers. Among them there are many who continue to show greatest commitment, and for that we want to thank ourselves! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The example of Finland shows very well that a differentiation must also be made in the consideration of total school and school autonomy. Finland has passed through several models, lies at the first ranks in the PISA study, but only in the 1990s has the autonomy of schools been strongly promoted. And it is also worth mentioning that there are sponsor models, such as a boarding school for mathematically highly talented people, that produce the best achievements. As a representative of the economy, I would like to take the example of mathematics in the PISA study again. In this respect, we are in the EU comparison to rank six, in the OECD comparison from 31 countries to 11 in the top three, and that is indeed a very good result. We have also improved significantly, compared to the 1995 TIMSS study, and I would like to point out that this is the exact time since Minister Gehrer led this place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We are thus significantly better than our German neighbour, especially in the field so important to the economy, and this is really a remarkable result, especially for the future of our students, who will then achieve corresponding positions in the economy with this good qualification. Ladies and gentlemen, one more word for benchmarking. I think it is very important to compare with others and to focus on the best, because only then can investment and costs be used properly. I would just like to say briefly to my previous speaker: There is only recently a package of infrastructure decided by the government, which mainly promotes the continuing training of businesses, in which billions of funds are invested annually. There, additional funds are invested by increasing tax allowances for those companies that invest these large sums in education, for example, 300 million schilling, or in the field of colleges where additional budgets are deposited, or in the area of university institutes where 200 million schilling is spoken of. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that funds should be used where it makes sense, and I believe that this is happening in many areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6544	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6565	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's always good to know where to stand. It is always good to know in which field of comparison one moves. The PISA study is a truly representative comparison between OECD countries, and therefore the PISA study is a valuable example for us as an educational politician, but also for us as legislators of the current state of Austrian compulsory education in an international comparison. And this international comparison, this study presents a very good witness to Austrian students, Austrian teachers, the Austrian school system as a whole and, of course, to you, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to stress first of all as very positive that there has been a return rate of 100 percent in the surveys in Austria. That's really remarkable. This is remarkable in so far as it is a good sign of the willingness of our teachers to perform, of our students' willingness to perform, and of the fact that they do not hide an international comparison that they want to measure themselves and take the overall performance comparison seriously. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If one now looks at the results of this PISA study in its core area, in the field of reading and understanding of the read, in the field of reception skills, one must nevertheless, in my opinion, come to a differentiated view overall. On the one hand, you have to say: We are quite good, at least in the top third of the ranking, in the fifth place of the EU countries, in the tenth place of OECD countries. That's a nice result. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] If, on the other hand, one considers the result in detail, a number of critical questions have to be asked, particularly with regard to the number of points achieved. Austria has reached 507 points in the field of reading. The OECD average is 500 points, and the Finns as the best in this scale have reached 546 points. From this one realizes that the distance to the average – that is to say to the middle class – is much smaller than the distance to the top, and that should give us some thought. Our goal can only be to orient ourselves at the top, and from that we are, that must be said, clearly removed. You need to be able to discuss this critically. I am pleased that you, Mrs Bundesminister, have also said quite critically today and have found that you cannot be content with being in the top third, but that our goal must be to go up, to get to the top. A levelling down would be the completely wrong way. What I ask for, what we liberals demand, is an orientation up. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One question that is pressing on with regard to this study is of course: What do the Finns do so much better than the Austrians and the rest of the OECD countries? – On and on, you have to say: Looking to Finland, we look at this success recipe to find improvement approaches through analyses and to improve our good – I would like to emphasize – our good performance standard. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! That's what we want! We would like to examine the school system critically and look for improvements. We would like to see where we have opportunities to build something even better on a good foundation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We have every opportunity to bring our education system to the top, but we also need to think about reforms in good time, and we want to do so. [[Abg. Oillingers: You also need better education speakers!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Minister of Social Affairs Oillinger!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen on the opposition benches! If we discuss opportunities for improvement in the Austrian school system together, we are working together to find ways to give our young people an even better education.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6675	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. He's got the floor. 5 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6704	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am at least pleased with the last words of Mr Schender's speech, because I have not been able to look up the comments made by Mr Amon. He also did not say that one should perhaps look at how the countries that are still ahead of Austria, according to this study, are working. Let's get it to the point: The PISA study has shown that Austria is located in an area with which you can be satisfied, an area that you can also expand, but which, above all – and this is not uninteresting – looks good in the German-speaking area. It is also evident from a closer look at the fact that especially the German-speaking countries – apart from Austria – have massive problems. My plea is therefore – first –: We do not orient ourselves – what has happened very often – to the weaknesses of the Germans and to the weaknesses of the Swisss, but we focus on those areas where the Austrian system is still extensible. This PISA study was conducted in 2000 and the survey period was May 2000. I think we agree that this government has relatively little to do with this. The measures taken by this government have only been followed, and I cannot really really assess the impact these measures will have on the next PISA studies. The fact is that the savings measures, the restrictions can only be effective in the context of the next surveys. Only then will we see how this actually affects. 31 countries were compared in this study, you said. If you look at which countries they are, you can see: Among them are Brazil and Mexico, and it is no wonder that these countries are at the end of the scale. You know how the economic conditions there are, how there are educational systems working. Also five Eastern European countries are only from the 20th century onwards. Place to find. So you see, if you look at it objectively, that there are only 24 countries that can be compared economically with Austria. 10th place – I think there is still a lot to go up, and this place is certainly no reason for self-consecration. When you look at yourself, and that's the first statement... – Mr. Schweitzer, I have 5 minutes. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr Brosz! I want to know what's gotten so bad now!]] Let me try to finish my remarks at this time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The first clear context is, in this order, the economic, social, cultural status of the countries. Economic prosperity, corresponding social backgrounds have a clear impact on performance. You simply have to consider this, and under these conditions you can also measure objectively. I have already mentioned the outsiders: Germany, Switzerland and Luxembourg will have to analyse why their countries cut off so badly. The second point is – and I am in contradiction with you; You can read this: National Report, page 110 – the comparison of ten European countries, in which school systems have also been compared and where efforts have been made to analyse whether the different benefits are due to different systems or to the schools themselves. As a result of the schools, they are in the classical education systems, where there is a great flexibility within schools. If you look at this – I have tried to sum up this in a statistics as well; Page 110, National Report – then you can see that the best services are provided on average in the Scandinavian countries. [[The speaker holds a graphic in the height on which three different high columns can be seen: a high green column, a smaller yellow column and an even smaller blue column]] [[pointing to the green pillar]] The Scandinavian countries – I believe we can probably agree on this – have overall education systems, but I do not want to say that is the only method. And then Austria comes. [[pointing to the yellow pillar]] Austria is the best country among those who usually select very early. In this area we are good, and this is the average of those who have systems similar to Austria in these ten analogue countries. This gives me reason to think, because I wonder if these systems do not have blatant advantages over them. [[pointing to the green pillar]] [[pointing to the blue column]] To clarify this will probably be a task of the analysis of the PISA study. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schender, to Finland. – Finland has some special features. Finland has 2 200 lessons for 12 to 14-year-olds over three years. Austria has 3 400 hours. Finland is the lower end of the scale, Austria at the top. Finland achieves the best result by far with the lowest number of lessons. I also think we should think about this: Why is that so? What can be done? Let me quote something to Finland as a spot on what is being done differently: "Just in preschool at six years old and only quite in the first class come specially trained readers and speakers into the groups and classes. They'll find out the kids who need some help. In this support class, each individual child is the most necessary one for a quarter of an hour. Children of immigrants receive additional hours in which several of them are taught together in order to learn real communication situations." - Quote. This shows that Finland is going exactly the opposite way towards the one you always try to promote from the ÖVP: the promotion of talent, always trying to promote the uppers. Finland is trying to promote below, and Finland manages to place 80 percent of students on the first three levels. This is a performance, and Austria should focus on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6779	The next speaker is Mr Antoni. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6809	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Since the beginning of December of the previous year, i.e. since the first results of the PISA study have been known, one is particularly famous in governments of these excellent results. That's what it says: We have the excellent tenth place in the international comparison, we are above the average, we are the best in the German-speaking world, we are the best Central European country. I think we can congratulate our teachers on this, we can congratulate our students on it, and we should also note that it is a partial, and that I say quite consciously, satisfactory result. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to make three comments. First of all, I would like to stress what my colleague Kuntzl has already said: Your education policy is by no means the cause of this good result, because you were in office for just two or three months when the data was collected in May 2000. Second comment: The framework conditions for the period before this government were created by social-democratic German Chancellors and social-democratic finance ministers, and at that time there was more funding teaching, more free goods, more afternoon care, more non-binding exercises, smaller group and class sizes. It is therefore understandable that the result has not been so bad. I would like to say critically that you, ladies and gentlemen, are exclusively discussing the top of this six-part scale and selectively limiting the lower range. You can't do that – and I also give Mr Schender's right – as if in Austria everything was fine and there was no need for action. Take note that 4 percent of students – 4,000 – of the year 1984 by reading cannot acquire any independent knowledge! Note that 10 percent, i.e. 10,000 students of this year, have only the simplest reading skills, and borders You do not ask for the 7 percent of the year 1984, which already left school after primary school and could therefore no longer be taken into account in this study! That is, in the clear text, ladies and gentlemen, we have a risk group of nearly 20 percent of students who are unable to learn independently through self-reading and will not be able to participate independently in the European concept of lifelong learning. I place here, for this 20 percent, a huge and urgent need for action, because that means in clear text that almost every fifth student has problems reading. Her answer, Mrs. Federal Minister, to the PISA study is: more tests; a reading test in the third class of folk school; a reading test in the fourth class. Through tests, ladies and gentlemen, the students will not learn to read better. If you want to start right, you have to set a focus that looks like you're talking intensively to parents in the sense of the school partnership about what's important in early childhood education to prepare for reading, that you're also looking for contact with the kindergartens that are in front of the school in order to create reading motivation or to do reading education there. And finally, you should also ask: Is the correct reading practice applied to our schools? Is it above all ensured that after the mediation of the technical ability of reading, the meaningful reading is also developed and further expanded? Let me make a critical comment on the study itself. We miss that, apart from cognitive achievements such as reading, mathematics and so on, no skills and skills were addressed and investigated in the social, creative and emancipatory sphere. And the most important thing to be able to really participate in life-long learning – the ability to self-responsible, self-responsible learning – has not been studied either. Finally, let me give an answer to Mr Schender's question. Mr Schender asked: What does Finland, what Austria does not have and what is so beneficial about the students? – We already have an answer: Finland has a Social Democratic Prime Minister: Lipponen – and not Wolfgang Schüssel!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6874	The next speaker is Mrs Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6895	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have to give my colleague Antoni a little help: According to this study, if he thinks that there is a need for thought about 20 percent of students: He also has to write this on the flags of "his" school minister, and not only the good results. One can certainly ask when the decisive policy choices for the success of school policy have been set. – That was actually under Piffl-Percević and with the School Law 1962, of which we are still alive today. So thank our forebears and ancestors, and everyone may have their share of success. It is a two-thirds law, so it was the majority of those present here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's a correct. – If Mr Kuntzl says that the schoolkeepers have problems providing their schools properly, I would like to ask: What about Vienna? I do not know such reports from other federal states. I don't know anything about children sitting in Vienna with fistlings. Or have the tariff increases of the municipality of Vienna been made so that the children can give up the fists and the heatings in the Vienna school classes are increased by a few degrees? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One of the answers also from pedagogues to this PISA study – I think it was old judge or posch who said that – was: We do not forget the main schools in the urban area, especially in Vienna, where there is a need for action. But this is a result of the PISA study that comes about in the screening of our national conditions. What else is important to me? What errors still need to be eliminated? – All experts say that the external school organisation is not, it is the powerful climate, it is the good training of teachers, the high level of commitment. In Finland, for example, only every seventeenth teacher is declared suitable for teaching. It is the respective good motivational environment, and we can be proud of this Austrian specification; we must continue to work on it. What still seems important to me, especially now that soon the second semester begins: It is gratifying that the girls are the players in reading and thus in the field of learning competence. Girls read better, read more. Their leisure behaviour is also the same. The good reading ability of Finland, for example, leads to high investment in school libraries, but it is also related to our Internet communication and the curiosity associated with it. I wish that, especially when parents of girls make their decisions regarding the future schools or studies that motivate girls to implement their good achievements in the natural sciences as well as to include them in their future planning. What can Austria be proud of? – The matura conclusion is particularly high. The Minister has already pointed out: The Webster University expects some points for a Bachelor's degree when the Matura degree was made in Austria. For the TIMSS evaluation: How can we improve our scientific and mathematical achievements? Here, the Austrian Federal Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs invest a few hundred million in improving scientific didactics. So it comes to internal school reform. There are also 4,000 new training places in the IT sector, so we are absolutely on a modern line. 11 new Backalaureat and Magister studies are or have been set up and 1 000 new colleges in information and communication. The workers' chamber study confirms that 85 percent of pupils aged 14 years are very satisfied with their option of choosing secondary schools. This is an even greater satisfaction than the parents express. Thank you, Mrs Minister, thank you all who are working on this project! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Expenditure on education as a whole has been raised. In this respect, we are in front of Finland. That is, every seventh tax schilling is spent on education. In 2002, the budget was more than 7 billion schilling than it was in 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! "QIS", quality in schools, surveyed over the Internet: since 1999 over 10 million accesses! There are many, many projects in the individual schools, a lot of commitment to teachers. I also thank the "Teacher of the Year" for Mrs. Mag. Pecker. I would also like to thank all those who did not come to the rankings. There's still a lot of work. The previous...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6978	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e6993	... The results should stimulate us, and I see the best signs for that, the choices are well placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7023	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7045	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! "Austrian student on the way to the world's top", we read in the announcement of this PISA study. It should not be mentioned, ladies and gentlemen: Austria was once the world's peak. It's been a long time – similar to that time when our football team represented world peaks with the miracle team. But what happened in the meantime? We've gotten better. That means at the same time, Mrs Kuntzl, that we were once worse. However, we should also not ignore one side of this report, Mrs Bundesminister, if, in this study, we also receive the "note distribution" for your teaching policy at the end of a semester. There is also a note "satisfying" or even "not enough". It is said in the study that Austria has comparatively the lowest values in the school autonomy sector. "The results reflect the multi-stage school administration hierarchy and the close legal boundaries as regards the extent and implementation of school autonomous decisions," it says. So, ladies and gentlemen: "Enough" or "Not enough" in the field of school autonomy! What did this study ask? What did she test? May the school share in the recruitment of teachers? Is it possible for them to release teachers? Is the initial content of the teachers affected by the school? Does the school decide on possible salary increases? Should discipline be defined by the pupils? May the admission to your own school be influenced by the school? Ladies and gentlemen! All these questions must be addressed No answer. Rudimentary approaches are available, but school autonomy is not taken seriously yet and not really lived, but the school administration – in the study called "hierarchical" – is it that ultimately decides on the ache and woe of the school and the student too decisively. Mrs. Federal Minister! It is clearly demonstrated here that those countries are in the forefront – and thus world leaders, as we Austrians once were with our teaching system – who take this autonomy, this independence of schools as seriously as possible. Japan and Korea are mentioned here, but notably Canada and New Zealand too. There the school self-government becomes, the decision will be transferred to school, the decision to corporate identity of each individual school that can shape itself that can represent itself. I believe that in this respect, we clearly have a manko in Austria, because there is still, in the first place, a proportion of red and black school management, and regrettably, party policy is too much involved in the allocation of teachers' posts. Let us take the first approaches to school autonomy seriously, for example, with the behavioral agreement we decided recently! Let's take her seriously! But take also you, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition that you have used lately only to make this school system bad and, above all, to stir up the teachership, your responsibility seriously! It is sad reality that at present far fewer ski courses are taking place than before, because you have managed to move teachers in schools to a "service according to prescription" because the decision of last year, after which a teacher may have to be in class for 20 minutes to get the same salary, has not been carried by you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7087	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7102	Austria's education system must continue to emancipate! Austrian schools need more freedom!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7133	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Mr. "Social Minister"!]] I asked myself, Mr Schweitzer: How will the educational speakers of the government parties make it? How do they deal with a topic that doesn't just give rise to fame over Austria? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Yes!]] How do they deal with the PISA study? Mr Amon said: We in Austria are the top. There's nothing there, we're tops, we're golden right. Mr. Education Spokesman Schender says something else. He says: We're good averages. – Why we are not tops, he does not know, but the Finns are at the front, and he will also learn why the Finns are at the front. Mr. Schender! In addition to the fact that the Finns are on the front, it may also be because there is a better education policy for the government parties and for the educational speakers – they also look around more, gather information, and gather more experience – apart from that, the results of Finland are already available, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm allowed to quote from the standard: "As in the other northern European countries, the Finnish education system is the overall school for all up to the ninth class." – What do you say? – We put it away, we don’t care about it, we don’t need it. We know, Mr Amon of the ÖVP, why we are at the top of the middle. Ladies and gentlemen! A second reason... – But please, don't come with old pots! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The German general school! What is the total German school?- Oh, my God!]] A second reason why the Finns are in the front is that there is something being done in foreign languages. This, of course, has something to do with the country, with the language that is only common there. Finns must learn foreign languages, but they also want to learn foreign languages. However, with us in Austria, those schools that would like to teach a living foreign language as a third foreign language instead of Latin will still be put in the way of a baton. You know that very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Saviour.]] Another reason, Mr Schender, is that the Scandinavian countries are also exemplary in their performance assessment, because they do not place so much emphasis on individual censorship, on censorship at all costs. A schoolwork every week, a test every week – they don't do that there! The Finns, for example, attach importance to group work, to group listing, and they, like other Scandinavian countries, Mr Khol, in certain years – sometimes only in primary school, sometimes beyond primary school – leave out the performance assessment by grades at all. Skill You ever imagine that? But this is the case in the Scandinavian countries! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is certainly with a reason why there can be more creativity developed in the school system than in a through-regulated system. Another point: It's fixed that we have a highly structured school system. I know, in Austria it's like this: In the country, the primary school is the total school, and in the city it is the gymnasium. And there are the liberals who say that this development in Austria is a little too comprehensive for us to join even more; we need a real school, we need the special school again. Then the liberals and perhaps parts of the ÖVP would be satisfied with where the school system is developing. This is the debate you have held in recent years. These are the proposals that you always hear from your side. But this is the wrong way and the wrong perspective, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Take the experience of a positive one and one of us, as I believe, on this question of superior school systems! But also accept the criticism! Ladies and gentlemen! We have never claimed that the Austrian school system is a bad school system to be damned in soil and soil. We have never put this criticism in place. They know that in the past these have always been the liberals who now have difficulties in finding their place in the educational debate. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Give it a rest! Sit down!]] – We have always said: Reforms, yes, it would be to do something, and something would be necessary. Take, for example, the criticism of the PISA study that we are the worst country among migrants children, according to which the biggest efforts of Austria are to be made by migrants children!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7253	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7269	And above all: The education policy of this Federal Government is certainly not suitable for this purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7307	I declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7329	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 GOG to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7629	It is my request from Dr. Cap, Dr. Khol, Ing. Westenthaler and Dr. Van der Bellen intend to take the educational offensive and study fees popular desire at first reading in accordance with § 69 of the Rules of Procedure. On this request the House is to be found. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. The request was adopted unanimously. I will put this first reading on the agenda for tomorrow's meeting of the National Council. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7665	In order to be able to negotiate Agenda items 2 and 3 of today's agenda, it is according to § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure necessary to withdraw from the 24-hour period of stay. On the one hand, it is the report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (944 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Arbitration Act (985 of the Supplements) and, on the other hand, the Report and Request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act and the Sacrifice for Care Act (986 of the Supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the removal of the 24-hour delay to give a sign. – This is accepted with the required two-thirds majority and is therefore included in today’s agenda. What is the further government proposal: After consultation with the members of the President-in-Office of the Council, I propose, on the one hand, the Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Croatia, of the other part, with regard to Final Acts and Declarations (975 of the Supplements) on the other, that, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, it should be distanced from the assignment of this subject to a committee and put it on the agenda for the tomorrow meeting of the National Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. That is why we are doing so. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7710	I would also like to say that Members Dr. Partik-Pablé, Kiss, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, asked for urgent consideration of the motion for a resolution 589/A (E) at the same time on measures against the exploitation of illegally employed foreigners. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you all know, the request for urgent procedure will be made today at 3 p.m. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of ÖVP and the liberals) That's where the right ones talk! A whore! Did you do that research? Enough naïve!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Eurolim!]] Request for a brief debate on the response 2987/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7758	I also announced, before entering the agenda, that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure lays down a short debate on the response of 2987/AB to the question 2969/J by Mrs Mag. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Given that a urgent request has just been envisaged for today's meeting, the brief debate will take place following the discussions on the subject of the urgent request. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7782	Finally, as far as today's agenda is concerned, I should like to sum up points 4 to 7 and 9 and 10 respectively. Is there any objection to this summary? - That's not the case. That is why we shall proceed in this way. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7806	I will now go into the agenda and announce that the President-in-Office of the Council has reached consensus on the following terms: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been envisaged, which gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 156 minutes, Freeman and ÖVP each 116 minutes, Green 92 minutes. Is there any objection to this proposal? - That's not the case. This means that this is so agreedly defined. 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Twenty-fourth Report (III-98 of Supplements) of the Public Prosecutor's Office (1. Years until 31. ) (925 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7839	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There is no wish for oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7866	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office that is before us, and I would like to thank my group for its activities, especially the lawyers of the previous period of activity, whose report is under discussion today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also do not want to hide that we were very pleased and very pleased about the past practice of the People's Procuratorate, which is to say that we were over-participation, and that all three Volksanstalts had been subject to the last period of activity of this Premise. Nor do I want to say that it was Mr Volksanwalt Schender, who has always dealt with a particularly delicate issue, namely the chapter on internal and judicial matters, very objectively and with due openness, and I think that should remain so. I'm actually already on a subject that makes me suspect that it doesn't stay that way, and I'm a record of a main negotiation of 18. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: More than one suspect!]] Stadler had to declare as a witness and did not provide certain information to the court in the course of this testimony. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is another mud battle! Typical!]] At the request of the applicant or the representative of the applicant, the judge was asked to inform Stadler of his obligation to testify. The judge followed this call, told the witnesses Stadler about his obligation to testify and that he had no right of censure as a witness. Nevertheless, Volksanwalt Stadler has failed to provide this information, which has resulted in a decision to impose a fine on the public prosecutor Stadler, namely a fine of 5 000 p. – I wonder if a person who is able to disregard the rule of law in this way is capable of carrying out the activity of a public prosecutor objectively. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A model! A popular lawyer for "delighting"!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: I want your worries!]] But it fits the picture of the FPÖ policy [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] One disregards the rulings of the Constitutional Court, the other disregards the rule of law in itself, goes as a popular lawyer to the gross gratification of a violation of the rule of law for him, and is subject to a curfew. And exactly this person is supposed to watch that the right is respected in our official apparatus! On the one hand, this was, as I believe, an act that is detrimental to the reputation, and on the other hand, I believe that this is not the qualification that a popular attorney should have. I would like to mention a few other concerns. ==References====External links== No-vember 2001 was reported on a participation in the National Meeting. At a meeting organized by the weekly magazine "Current" as claimed in the "Report", well-known right-wing extremists have arrived. The FPÖ policy has avoided this assembly, but the most prominent speaker was Volksanwalt Stadler. The same applies to a Sunday party at the Cobenzl according to "profile" of the 25th century. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: "Beautiful"!]] In my opinion, it is unacceptable to the public prosecutor's reputation if a person breaks the law and is sentenced to a curfew because he does not identify himself with the rule of law. This breach of law should be enough reason for him to think for himself whether he is suitable for this work and for that position. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] In addition, we have heard that he can present files of persons or acts which do not comply with his legal understanding, as well as in the course of the proceedings against the President of the Constitutional Court. We will observe very closely what files these are. We will observe closely which persons are directed against these actions. I fear that the objectivity of the public prosecutorship with the person Stadler is no longer guaranteed. It was in earlier times, also with the proponents of the Freedom Party. You have to consider by the government parties whether you are leaving the course of objectivity and continue the course of Stadler. We will publicly challenge this course with all the means at our command!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e7997	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8018	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! It is a long and respectful tradition in this House to thank and acknowledge the work of ladies and gentlemen, lawyers and their employees. [[Complementary with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] This happens, of course, for the work done, but also out of respect for the public prosecutor's institution. It was created in 1977 with Constitutional Law, initially set up on a temporary basis and adopted in 1981 as the seventh major piece in the Federal Constitution. The reason for the creation of the public prosecutor's office was the concern to give citizens a contact point outside the administration. The People's Procuratorate is therefore a classical body which is a body for legal protection and control in our Republic. These institutions also include the Court of Auditors, the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. On a given occasion and on the basis of the violent, often hurtful words of the last days, I would like to say that all these institutions, which serve to protect the law and control, are part of the checks and balances of our democracy, our respect, our thanks and our recognition for their work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With a certain degree of regularity, the somewhat curious, though logical, situation occurs that thanks are not accepted by the same persons who are responsible for the report before the debate. That is also the case this year. I would therefore also like to thank the so-called People's Lawyers and Mr Volksanwalt and their employees, as well as to assure the two present gentlemen and the lady: We don't condemn! We judge your work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The public prosecutorship has a special position as it has perhaps the most direct contact with the citizens and the population is also very unbureaucratic. As the figures in the 2000 activity report show, this institution is also pleased to be adopted: There were 8 605 entries and 3 806 examination procedures. The use of data subjects shows essentially a certain continuity. Variations are given, but I think they are moving in rather negligible dimensions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Leave Let me say a few words about the debate on the special report of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think it's a shame. The discussion has been somewhat unhappy in some parts, or some have tried to give the impression that the public prosecutorship would not be taken seriously. – I emphasize that is not the case. We, the People's Party, were concerned to comply with constitutional requirements in dealing with the special reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The legal situation is clear: The debate on the reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office is scheduled in the National Council's plenary session only for the annual activity report. Some thought it was small. In my opinion, however, the parliamentary procedures should be based on the Federal Constitutional Act and the Rules of Procedure. This is a command of rule of law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This does not mean, of course, that the People's Procuratorate should not or should not inform Members. Of course, it should, and of course, be allowed to do so, but not through the formal report, which also necessarily leads to a debate in plenary. Finally, I think, the question has also been resolved in a satisfactory way. ==References== It is an information event on December, and I believe that this is a process that is also an example for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8109	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8131	Mr President. Mrs. Volksanwaltin Bauer! Mr. Volksanwälte! My previous speaker spoke about the fact that at the beginning of the statements on the public prosecutor's report there are usually praises to the ladies and gentlemen of the public prosecutor's office. However, she has forgotten to add that this old tradition has been permanently disturbed and broken by Mr Wittmann. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] On this occasion I would like to say: I do not know how to estimate this speech – if it was a Philippine, it was a Suada – at least it was one, namely, a speech of thanks to a former very successful opposition politician in this House. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Wittmann. I'd like to tell you: I am still much preferable to someone who participates in a Sunday celebration than someone who is with the communists on the Jesuit meadow. May be celebrated. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you are talking about the popular attorney Stadler being sentenced by a court for giving evidence, I will tell you the following: This is absolutely not a breach of law. As a witness, when you are asked to call your informant, you have the opportunity to declare or refuse the statement, and in the latter case you have to do the consequences, namely, the one of a curfew. However, I am telling you that especially the case of Ewald Stadler shows very clearly that our legal system suffers from a very serious lack. If today an informant from the population turns to a journalist and this leads to a report that becomes the subject of a trial, and when the journalist says: I'm under editorial secrecy and I quit!, then that's all right. But if an informant from the population comes to us in the House and entrusts us with something important that will be the subject of a trial, should that not be associated with the right to discharge? - Something's wrong! There is clearly a need for legal action, because, honestly speaking, as a member of the House – with all appreciation for our journalists in Austria – I do not see why I am treated worse in my activity than a journalist. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The natural superior!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We already had a discussion about the appointment of the individuals, the Volksanwälte, who took place here today. From my point of view, I can add the following: I believe that the characteristics that connect the three prosecutors as a whole, but also distinguish between them, are really guarantees that the function of the public prosecutors is exercised in an ideal way. I am thinking, for example, of our Ewald Stadler, who was a very keen politician, who is generally very shrewd, who has committed himself to constitutional law, who is really well suited for this function, and who is also entrusted to the population, that he looks closely at the officials, the departments to be examined. I can imagine: If Ewald Stadler gets through in an authority, the sequence is wrong. "This is the beginning of a wonderful friendship" from the cult film "Casablanca" to the opposite. And I thank the Ewald Stadler for that. I also thank him for pointing out, as one of his first measures, that he was one of the courts in Vorarlberg and showed that one cannot deal with citizens in such a way that one can leave files for months or even four years, I think, even with the participation of a notary as a commissioner. [[People's attorney Mag. Stadler: Four years!]] I have no understanding of this at all when it is said again and again: The People's Procuratorate must not intervene. – The judicial administration is administrative. This has nothing to do with the independence of the jurisdiction. It is now this way – and we must not overlook it – that the Republic of Austria is a regular guest to the European Court of Human Rights when it comes to examining whether undue proceedings, i.e. an extended period of procedure, are taking place. That belongs to a second place, and that is also the task of the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But the other members also guarantee quality. Mr. Peter Kostelka has proved that he is a well-known constitutional expert and a cool analyst who certainly wants to help the citizen to his right. And Mrs. Rosemarie Bauer, the woman with the right heart, is also Garantin for helping the citizens to their right. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that overall the public prosecutorship is just too well-occupied, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, we today are negotiating a report that is obsolete from today’s point of view as far as the three personalities present are not responsible for it. It is about the 2000 report. On the other hand, on the other hand, there is already a report from the public prosecutor's office for which they are responsible, namely the special report on heating costs, but we do not negotiate it here – that is what it is. The Constitution states that the People's Procuratorate has to deliver a report once a year, and we are discussing it today. This report, I believe, is a quality proof that the People's Procuratorate is working well. I am not only happy, but also convinced that, in view of the constellation of the three personalities who have taken place here and in the Palais in Singerstraße, the public prosecutor's duties are being performed in the best and convincing way in the sense of the citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8246	The next honourable Member is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8267	Dobro jutro, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! I am pleased that we have the opportunity for the first time to discuss the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office in full occupation. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I hope that the lawyers Dr. Kostelka and Mag, too. Stadler has the heart on the right and not only Mrs Bauer. This characterization made by Mr Krüger: Big Boss Stadler, the cool constitutional lawyer Kostelka and the lady with a heart in the public prosecutor's office, is more than questionable. It is more than sexistic, ladies and gentlemen, to see it that way. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I have come to know Mrs Bauer, when she was neither a member of the National Council, as a sharp colleague, and I do not agree with Mr Stadler or Mr Kostelka. I would say to Mr Stadler that he is indeed on the right spot! I would like to thank the People's Procuratorate to the head of my brief remarks, because the work of the ladies and gentlemen' lawyers and their employees as an organ of the National Council is very valuable to the House, and therefore very valuable because it opens our eyes to us. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's incredible!]] If you read these annual reports – it was in the past already; this report is not yours, but it was written by your predecessors and your predecessors – then you are ashamed. As a parliamentarian, you, ladies and gentlemen, should also be ashamed. What the People's Procuratorate criticizes often has its causes in the process and in the work of the executive, but a good part of the suggestions and a good part of what is contained in the report is criticism of the legislative, are legislative suggestions. To make sure that this is implemented, that something happens at last to what the People's Procuratorate suggests to us – because more than she can't do – we are responsible for that. And I miss that every year, ladies and gentlemen. The report is really very clear. A brief look shows that valuable work is also being done in the sense of the population, for which – this is my experience, that is told to me – the People's Procuratorship is really the last anchor. If one no longer knows when administrative action is against the citizen and the citizen in such a way that one is not only discouraged, but comes into a hopeless situation, then the People's Procuratorate is the last anchor. And this is convenient for us, ladies and gentlemen, if the citizens do not torture politicians, so to speak, but if they can say: Go to the People's Procuratorate, help you! – But this attitude should not mark our attitude toward the public prosecutorship. The results of her work should not only be obliged to thank her, but they should, above all, require us to draw conclusions from it. And I miss these. This discussion on how to deal with the legitimate suggestions, the overall approach to work and the debate on how their work can be made more efficient, i.e. in the sense of reforms within the public prosecutor's office, is urgent. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We demand and remind them for a long time. But the discussion about the People's Procuratorate has been dominated by two things in recent years or in recent past: On the one hand, we are dealing with the question of occupation. Who has these positions in it? – In my opinion, however, the People’s Procuratorate has not done so well. On the other hand, the question is about, but it was finally resolved positively: Is there the popular lawyer, the Volksanwälter again in the ORF? – The ORF is the mass medium that is most likely to represent the work of the authority as it is. I have to say, I'm happy about these shows that are now, and I'm also going to be a regular seer. I would like to congratulate you, and above all, on the designer of the programme, on the way in which this has been done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since the red light is already shining, I would now like to turn to the important points of the report. To us, to the National Council, the People's Procuratorate writes on page 64 in its report under 5.1.2 Fundamental rights interventions: proportionality among public authorities – no common concept. – It is said that the top level of administration is hardly concerned with basic provisions. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is contained in the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, then we would have to hear all the alarm bells for a long time, because this is a very fundamental question of dealing with Parliament's fundamental rights, with regard to the way in which it deals with administration and citizens. But that's just one point now. If you read the report about the Ministry of the Interior, you can see that it is only so full of accusations of this kind. And these accusations are not allegations that were simply written in, but they are subordinated to a concrete government act that violates this principle of proportionality. And that should really be enough cause for concern, but above all to act, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Bauer! Mr. Volksanwälte! Thank you for your work. I hope that we will see ourselves here in the House soon and discuss the 2001 report, but also your suggestions, and we will also be able to report on what has happened in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8339	Mrs. Dr. Mertel came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8360	Mr President. My popular lawyer and solstice! I would also like to express my thanks for the work of the Volksanwälte and its employees. I would like to stress this, above all, because it has been claimed that Mr Wittmann had missed this and that he had broken it with a tradition. He thanked the People's Procuratorate and even highlighted the work of Mr. Volksanwalt Scheider. [[Call out to the liberals:Wishers!]] - Saviour! Sorry! In Carinthia, there is a liberal Member who is called Scheider, which is why I was wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Do you love that?]] – Yes, unfortunately, you know, if you do so in old age, then this is a disadvantage. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is also a possibility!]] – This is a possibility, yes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I'd watch the sentence!]] Wittmann stressed the danger that only Stadler would make a policy of justice. That would be a departure from tradition, and I would like to stress that. The reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office contribute to clarifying legal situations and indicate that there is a need for action by the legislator. However, this report also reveals impressions: first of all, the impression that this public prosecutorship is an important point of contact for citizens. After all, more than 8,000 citizens have turned to the People's Procuratorate, so it is a suitable means for them to come to their right. The next impression that can be won is the unmistakable impression of the operation of this government. The way in which this government operates is to give an impression of page 1 of this report, that is to say, according to the table of contents. Mr Klubobmann Khol would say: pars pro toto, an example that stands for many. This is because the impression of Husch-Fuch, reason: Speed kills – your favorite expression you haven't used for a long time, Mr. Klubobmann! I mean by this the Social Rights Amendment Act 2000, which could not and could not enter into force, until even the Constitutional Court – probably because it is "corruptible" as the liberals claim – considered this procedure to be unconstitutional. Again: The impression is: Husch-Puff, speed kills – your favorite vocabulary cable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Next impression: Many suggestions from the People's Procuratorate cover up with the initiatives of my group here in the house and underline the right of our initiatives. Examples are: Proposal from the People's Procuratorate on the adoption of a Federal Home Treaty Act. The draft law, that is, my group, has been drawn up with the Pensioners' Association, it is present and is already being discussed in the Subcommittee of the Justice Committee. I am pleased that the many good reasons for such a contract will be underlined by arguments from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Another point: Re-introduction of the so-called home travel allowance for students who have to be accommodated in an boarding school because of the distance between the place of training and the place of residence. The return home of these young people – weekly, monthly – costs the parents a pretty rod of money. And this happens at a time when a government seems to be able to apply 17 billion schilling for its favorite project – or say, favorite child – "child care money". There, however, boarding school students should not become stepchildren, especially if one knows that a small sum would be enough to get the families under the arms efficiently. Another point: our concerns about the reduction of maturity. Yes, these are financial concerns regarding 18-year-olds, because this also limits the duration of the maintenance advance. After all, this has lasted until 19 years. There is a need for action to avoid hardship during the transitional period of five years. The mediating activity of the AMS is also a crucial point, just because of the catastrophic labour market situation that now prevails. The People's Procuratorate points out that there are difficulties in the placement of older unemployed people, of single parents and of people with health problems. This is due to one-of-a-kind sense of life in specific situations of those concerned. Therefore, the public prosecutor's office again and again calls for a psychological training of the AMS staff. I think this is very important, because the current government should take seriously any suggestion relating to the unemployed. As this group has so far only been exhausted by you – reduction of benefits, reduction of funds for labour market policies – and in view of your inadequacies in increasing unemployment rates – we have 50 000 more unemployed compared to the previous year this year – you should be grateful to any reasonable proposal in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer referred to the special report of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the award of heating aid. Mrs. Colleague! I must say that if the government parties were really interested in an efficient social policy, they would have allowed the results of this report to be discussed after its completion, in October 2001, and before the current heating period here in the National Council. But you were not even interested in this, because then you would have to admit that this action has brought heating aid much less than it could have brought. Only 18.9 percent of the financial framework provided was exploited. And what were the reasons for this? – information deficits and bureaucratic obstacles. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Mayor Häupl!]] For the future, ladies and gentlemen, this can only mean: With regard to the seriousness of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the part of Parliament, such current special reports must be approved in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8494	Mr Donabauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8515	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Thank you for visiting us today! High house! The report of the Public Prosecutor's Office for the year 2000 is about to be discussed, and each party will comment on it in its own way. Mrs Mertel, you have now let go of your suffering pressure and you mean that this government would not deal with the heating grant. I would like to refer to the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, which took place yesterday, in the context of which you tabled a motion for a resolution and we have told you: Yes, we are treating him, but we want to and must get some information in the countries for the time being. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Your disinterest!]] – In this context, I can also tell you that Dr. Kostelka, in his area of processing the heating aid of 2000, has done very valuable work, which we will also involve in the decision. You do not need to remind us of this issue, we have it in hand, we will meet every citizen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, They believe that this government should take the measures seriously. I can tell you that this government is taking everything seriously. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I also assume that all governments have taken everything seriously, not just these. You can rely on this mention or this reference is essential. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] The 2000 report is a proud report. 8 600 citizens have turned to the People's Procuratorate. Examining procedures have been initiated and many have been carried out. Especially the number of more than 8,000 people clearly shows how necessary and important it is that we have this facility and that it works and works successfully. I regard their task as very essential in the rule of law. I also see her task as an indispensable moderator between the interests of citizens and those of legislation and enforcement. I think that this is really a good thing and that we have every reason not to regret that perhaps a small thing does not fit or that perhaps people who do not fully correspond to one or another in their orientation have been sent. I mean, the work of the People's Procuratorate is at the heart of our consideration and assessment, and the work was good. I can now refer to some areas. For example, you have done a lot of advice in the family sector. I don't wonder. We currently have 29 family-related benefits in Austria – Mrs Mertel, you have previously mentioned child care benefits. This state offers 29 services, and I think it is important that, when the citizens have orientation problems, there is someone who tells them the way and says: This can be done optimally in this or that way. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You didn't create that!]] If you read this report, you will also notice, for example, how important it is that there is this institution. A citizen, 79 years old, emigrates to Sweden. The Swedish administration misses correspondence with Austria, the woman stands there without a pension. Because of the public prosecutor's intervention, this has been done, the connection with the PVA has been established, and the woman gets her pension. However, it is also in the report that, for example, the Ministry of the Interior in 1999 on several requests from the Public Procuratorate – in 1999, please! – has not answered for over a year. These things must also be prepared, quite clearly! A main topic is the whole area of social policy. I think that we have to recognise that it would be extremely necessary to re-examine social legislation in principle, because we have such a convoluted situation today, in view of which we have to say that there is hardly any further orientation. You from the People's Procuratorate write in your preface that you thank all the institutions that have met you and helped you with your work. We thank you for your work with the institutions, but above all for your work, for your work and for your commitment to the citizens of our country Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8584	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8606	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2000, at least 4,704 examinations were carried out by the people's lawyers in the reporting period we are debating today – 4,704! The People's Procuratorate also made constant suggestions on the legal scene during this time, in some cases she was also successful with it, Mrs Mertel! The main objective and main part of the report, which covers more than 200 pages, is a detailed and impressive breakdown and thus shows how important this citizens' point of call has become today. We also have this facility at other levels. We sometimes have national lawyers and at EU level a Ombudsman, and it would be desirable if all these levels were to appear in the public as offensive and had the same meaning as our federal lawyers. So paradox may sound: The modern rule of law brings with it its fullness of rules, which we all here in the National Council have promised the struggle, but which cannot be resolved so quickly, but also a greater degree of legal uncertainty, because the complexity and complexity of many materials are no longer clearly manageable. That is why people's lawyers must be strengthened at all levels, and the government's proposals of the People's Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, are taken seriously. We have already discussed this clearly in committee. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This impressive report has still been prepared by the predecessors of the popular lawyers now in the office. However, I am convinced – I want to say that we liberals are convinced – that they will continue the work of their predecessors in the same way. We all know you, ladies and gentlemen, from your parliamentary work, and we appreciate you from this time on. But we know him very well, and he is therefore very confident that the citizen will also come to his right in the new People's Procuratorate. If, unfortunately, Mr Wittmann – who is no longer taking part in the debate – wants to pay old bills from a time when he has been a member of an evil government, that does not speak for him. You might be able to do this to him. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Khol) You didn't listen to this government!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: One of your little things!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You weren't there! The ÖVP wasn't there!]] It is not this that harms the public and the law of the institution People's Procuratorate, but these unqualified attacks of yours, mys. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8689	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8710	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Every year again we discuss the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the list of unimplemented suggestions does not change much, with the exception of the fact that it is getting longer. (a) implement the suggestion, (b) implement it and (c) do not intend to implement it, then about two thirds of the public prosecutor's suggestions point (c) are not intended to be implemented. I would be interested to hear from the government parties why they do not implement suggestions from the Parliament's auxiliary body, which are important indications of where anything does not fit in the mediation between legislation and enforcement. I think there can be good reasons for perhaps not following some proposal for implementation, because, for example, an entire matter is being completely re-regulated. But that in two thirds of the materials letter (c) we can't understand that. We think that this is also a waste of valuable resources from this House and the Republic – and that is a shame. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to take only a few of these suggestions, which you do not intend to implement, and it is becoming more and more incomprehensible to me. That's what it says: The creation of a framework for the promotion of children with severe disabilities. I would be very pleased if we had uniform directives in this regard. Or: Creating clear criteria for the classification of children in need of care and mentally (psychically) disabled. – Wanting to do that Don't you implement? You don't want a clear and transparent classification? Why, please? Why shouldn't that happen? Why Grab hold Don't you like that? – This has nothing to do with ideological differences at all, but I think that such classification would be a clear and necessary principle in a rule of law. Or – there it might become a little more ideological –: To create a legal framework for women's advisory services. – This would help to ensure that women’s advisory services don’t have to tremble every year and fear whether they may be promoted or not, or have to consider what they need to do to get a bit of money. Other funding institutions have clear and transparent criteria, have framework contracts for a few years, and they can calculate. Why is this not the case with the women's advisory services? I could continue this list at any time now, and I could also add many fields of activity from the Green Club's work areas, to which we have complaints, which are also known to the Public Procuratorate, such as: Environmental impairments, impairments caused by mass animal husbandry plants. They don't do anything, and I think that's really sad and bad. You should not talk much about democratic packages and the better consideration of direct democracy if you ignore the voices of experts in the perception of misunderstandings in general.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8769	Now, as a representative of the People's Procuratorate, Dr. Kostelka is speaking. - Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8790	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As some speakers have pointed out, we have not drawn up the report which we have to represent in third place. For me, this is an expression of continuity in the public prosecutor's office that we will continue this activity in all objectivity over the next six years, but that does not mean that we will not bring in some new understanding of office. Our parliamentary past, which we all have three, means, for us, that we still have a greater understanding of ourselves as the control body of the National Council, but also of the Federal Council and the Land Days, which means that we are increasingly entering into official examination procedures, system examinations, and take into account in the individual examinations the prejudiciality of the individual case for comparable other cases. We will present our first report to you over the next few months, which we wish to complement and extend. Above all, I am concerned that we should point out to a greater extent the human rights consequences that have already been addressed in a debate contribution. The next report of the People's Prosecution, the Twenty-fifth, will therefore include a part of human rights. It is obvious to do this, because some of the 8 000 to 9 000 cases we get per year – by the way: The trend is rising; since the television broadcast, there has also been a sharp rise in human rights claims, and I believe that it makes sense to identify them separately, especially because not all human rights catalogues in Austria can be judicated. For too long and far too often, one has seen human rights in Austria as something that is exclusively a prerogative of the Constitutional Court – but that is only true of those human rights catalogues that are in the constitutional rank, but there are many who do not. The People's Procuratorate will have to apply these catalogues as an examination standard. I am entitled to report that of the 189 states that belong to the United Nations in the meantime, 120 states have public prosecutors, civil servants or similar bodies, but the Austrian public prosecutors are the only such body with a broadcast broadcast weekly – for the first time it was on 12. January this year to see. For us, it is not a question – to make it clear – of looking for confrontation with the administration in these missions, but it is a question of informing and informing the citizen about his rights and the sense of seeking his right, even fighting for it. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can also say, ladies and gentlemen, that this mission has an impact on the position of the public prosecutor: My first controversial case, which I wanted to bring to the show, was resolved three days before the shipment – after five months of intensive discussion with the authority in which the authority had not seen any reason – and I was accused. I believe that this is a good thing for the citizen as well. [[We welcome the SPÖ and the Greens, as well as representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have also started to deal with current issues in principle. There were some surveys on legal protection in social law, on neighboring rights, and in a few weeks an survey on genetic technology will take place. Ladies and gentlemen! We regret that there is a certain pressure to be inaccurate in the discussions between the National Council and the People's Procuratorate. We have taken note of the interpretation. I believe that in the course of the democratic package discussed by the House this question should also be re-examined, as it seems to be useful at all, in the 25th century. Year of the existence of the People's Procuratorate to rethink and adapt certain rights and obligations of the Public Procuratorate. In this context, I would particularly like to address the problem of distributed legal entities. I believe that much is in favour of ensuring that the audit competence and competence of the Court of Auditors and the public prosecutors are identical, not least because most of the distributed lawyers continue to carry out public tasks, in most cases also continuing to act as public authorities – even if they are no longer – and therefore it is not necessarily understandable for the public to understand that in these cases the public prosecutors have lost their responsibilities at once. Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I should also like to point out that, on the basis of the current legal situation, it is the case that the public prosecutorship operates outside its legal competence. But what should we do if someone complains about the ÖBB, the post or other areas? – Of course, we take up the complaint, try to get into the conversation with these distributed legal entities – which we usually succeed – but then, if there is really something about the complaint, once the scrollbar goes down. I do not believe that this can be in the interests of the citizen, in the end, but also of the public prosecutor's office. In this context, let me come back to one of the many legitimate suggestions, namely the extremely unsatisfactory situation of the consequences of the application of violence in the family. They all know that, unfortunately, there are increasingly violent practices in the family. And there is a fatal separation of the term "trafficking" in the StGB, in the Criminal Code, and in the ASVG. In the Criminal Code, someone is a participant in a trade that itself becomes violent – that is understandable. In addition, however, it is in the ASVG that everyone is understood as a participant in a trade that is guilty of it, including a provocation. – In the decision-making process, this may be especially true of the host shop, which it is – thank God! – hardly any more, have been coined where the provocative should not be put better than the injured. But today's impact, ladies and gentlemen, is quite another: In a marital situation, there is a discussion, this becomes more intense, leads to a dispute, and the one who takes action on violence – usually the man – hurts the other, that is, the woman. As a result, the woman does not receive any sickness benefit because she has been involved in the dispute. In a case that I had to deal with, ladies and gentlemen, this went even further: There was an argument – in Vienna one would say: a barnry – at a sausage stand, someone left this sausage stand, returned with a gun and shot at one of those involved in this dispute – with the result: The culprit was sentenced for attempted murder, and the victim received no sickness benefit. I really ask you to make the appropriate changes, especially in this regard, with regard to the effects on women, not least because this usually means that for women, marriage is broken, that they have partly lost the maintenance, that they themselves are injured, and that they also do not receive any sickness benefit. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for your attention. We will have to discuss together twice this year: once more about our own report and the other time about the 2003 budget. I am already allowed to announce that the People's Procuratorate will come up with wishes in this context – our work attack is increasing, and with it the needs are increasing. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8856	Mr Volksanwalt has now come to speak. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e8877	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to refer briefly to the previous debate before I come to the report under discussion. Mr. State Secretary other than Dr. Wittmann – he is, as far as I look at it, not in the hall at the moment; I hope he can hear me anyway – has cut down a trial in which I was invited as a witness. I thank him for bringing this – I do not feel it as an attempt to pay an open bill, but if it had been such, it would have gone beyond it. The background, ladies and gentlemen, is that as a parliamentarian I received information from a former socialist official and I was not prepared to call in court the name of this socialist official. There are in your ranks, ladies and gentlemen, some Members of the SPÖ, who still know what it was about at the time. As has already been said to the Vorarlberger Landtag, I have always felt that it must be possible for a citizen to turn to his elected Member, even if he has previously been a member of another party, and that the citizen has a right to say there: I'm telling you something, but you have to guarantee me that you don't "put me on the market"! – And I always kept it that way. I say this – and that is why I am particularly grateful to Mr Wittmann for his remarks – because the citizen can continue to rely on the fact that when he says something to Volksanwalt Stadler and asks for confidentiality, this confidentiality is guaranteed too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The citizen, I believe, can expect him to rely on the fact that – and this is true of only a few places in this country – he can present things without having to fear equally, therefore, to be quoted in front of the Kadi. Most of the time, it is not the powerful who come to entrust themselves to a deputy or a popular lawyer, but it is the incorruptible, mostly those who have come under the wheels. As far as my political mind is concerned, I have never left a doubt open, I have been elected to do so, and leave no doubt. I also have no question whether I would have to change my political attitude just because I have come into a new function. I have already said on earlier occasions that with my election as a popular lawyer, I will not become sexless or negligent. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have not fully understood the statements on the file template. I suspect that the honourable Member has confused a number of things. This is a constitutionally guaranteed right of the people's lawyers. In this context, I recommend that Dr. Wittmann take a brief look at our federal constitution. I have come up with files, as is the case in the public prosecutor's office by the way, in order to check once and for what objective criteria, for example, the General Procuratorate brings or refuses complaints to respect the law, because that is not understandable, unverifiable, and not even reasonable, without leading to the original act. I have found that, in any case, in those cases where I asked for the file paper on the Minister of Justice, it was not quite clear why the General Procuratorate behaved as it did. That means that this will be another topic of its own. I am already involved in the problem of special reports. The Volksanwälte – Mrs Bauer, Mr Kostelka and I – have undertaken to produce special reports in the future. Whether the House then consults it or not, of course, is first of all in the disposition of the Presidential Conference – in its infinite wisdom, how to add it on this occasion – and finally also in the disposition of the House's general assembly. We want to continue producing special reports and continue to discuss them with you, ladies and gentlemen. We invite you to participate in this discussion. Why? – Because, of course, the lawyers are thinking about why they are putting a matter into a special report. This is not a decision of the public prosecutor's courage or even personality, but it is a maturing process, where, intercollegially at the meeting, one is discussing whether or not a matter, such as the disunity handling of the heating cost grant, is included in a special report. High house! We also regard this as part of the further development of the Institution People's Prosecution on its 25th birthday. The People's Procuratorate is 25 years old this year, and it's time to think about whether you're expanding some kind of public prosecutor's instrument. We believe that although the Constitution requires that we submit a report to Parliament every year, it is not said that the Constitution prohibits us from submitting further reports to the House. How the House then deals with it is, as has been said, its matter. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of distributed legal entities is becoming more and more dramatic. At the decision-making of the People's Procuratorate Act some 25 years ago, no one was sure to expect such a tendency to disseminate later. I do not wish to doubt the sensibleness of the exclusions, but the problem behind them is that there is a control deficit for the Court of Auditors, for example, for the Court of Auditors, but also for us lawyers, which is going to be effective for the citizen. Whether the state is shrouded or not in the dress of private law, there remains state power behind it, and the citizen continues to be arrested in this misunderstanding of the original subordination, that is, the superordination and subordination, even if these legal entities now face him in the dress of private law. We must face up to this problem. We are grateful for the fact that some legal entity is still working with us, such as energy supply companies, which are constantly experiencing problems with electricity tariff accounting, or the Federal Forests, which are in the meantime distributed to us in the People's Procuratorate. But it is not now pro futuro that these lawyers are looking for cooperation with us. We are particularly pleased that there is a new form of cooperation in the area of control with the banking sector – and Mrs. Bauer will do something about it – because we have found an institutionalized form. But there is also cooperation with the Federal Chamber of Commerce, namely with the ombudsmen there. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Kostelka, mentioned: We want to join our own fundamental rights parts in the future reports, so to speak, to illustrate fundamental rights issues, but also to make it clear that fundamental rights in the administration should be taken a little more into account. They mentioned the case that occurred in the Styria where a gendarmerie officer demanded an alcove to a already sleeping already in bed. So the Gendarmerie official got into his house. He later claimed that: The person would have voluntarily allowed him to enter the house – it can no longer be verified today, but it doesn't sound very credible. In this case, fundamental rights were violated massively, in particular the house law protected in Austria was violated. And this is simply because this one had a little overzealous gendarmerie officer no sensor for where fundamental rights violations are realized and where not. The purpose and purpose of this fundamental right part of the report should also be to create in the administration a certain sensitivity to the fact that some administrative action has to do with fundamental rights violations and can lead to them. That is one of the reasons why we want to join the reports with our own fundamental rights in the future. Mr Kostelka has already mentioned it: The new mission "Volksanwalt" – thank God could be restored to the public prosecutor's mission – will certainly lead to an increase in complaints. I would like to thank the ORF expressly for having found himself ready to work on this public prosecutor's mission with the public prosecutor's office again. At the time, as a Member of Parliament – as well as many other colleagues in the House – I have repeatedly brought this up again and again. In the meantime, we have succeeded in achieving this mission in a new, modern, modern form. We are here, I believe, on a good path of cooperation with Austrian broadcasting, which I would like to thank on this occasion, as I have said, for this. We have also extended this to cooperation with daily newspapers. It is not an exclusive cooperation with a very strong daily newspaper, but each newspaper is entitled to be present in the records of the public prosecutors' reports and to present its own reports on the cases presented there. I would like to conclude by thanking our predecessors. With the last year's election of the three new Volksanwälte, for the first time in 25-year-old history – then 24-year-old history – all three Volksanwälte in cumulo have been exchanged. The three Volksanwälte Dr. Christa Krammer, Ingrid Korosec and Horst Schender have been eliminated by the end of June last year, but they are the reporters and also bear the real responsibility for this report. I believe that it is also in the sense of my two colleagues, if I thank our predecessors very much and congratulate them on this report, which has been prepared by our employees and edited by the People's Lawyers and in which in the well-known, high-quality way has been tried to present the problems. [[Congratulations on the liberals, the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also hope that cooperation with Parliament will be further developed – and that we will not hide our desire to achieve a form of closer cooperation with a committee. For example, we have the opportunity to get into permanent good cooperation with the Committee on Petitions – we would also like to talk about this with the National Council. We would like to maintain this new and intense form of cooperation, because in the end it would not only be in the interests of the citizen, not only in the interests of the public prosecutor's office, but also in your interest, because it would probably make it easier for you, as a Member of Parliament, to carry out your parliamentary activity. – In this sense, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9019	Mrs Volksanwälter Bauer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9041	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thank you for the kind words and I am happy to accept the expression of appreciation for the People's Procuratorate. I too would like to thank our predecessors very much, and I would like to take along the expressions of thanks expressed by Members. Although this report has also been prepared by my predecessor, I can say, on the basis of my previous activity, that many of what is contained in this report still have up-to-date events, but some of them have already been resolved – I would like to refer to them here in a few points. In the field of fees, many of the public prosecutor's proposals have been implemented with the last novel you decided here in the House a few months ago. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of payment with a certificate of deposit; a long-term claim of the public prosecutor's office. For me, it is now important to insist that, after the law has been changed, the execution also works and that certificates of deposit are also issued in the authorities or that payment is accepted. In my opinion, the aim should be and should also be to collect a common fee and tax collection from the federal government and countries, because it is not really interested in the citizens, which amount is a federal fee and which is a national administration tax. In fact, citizens are only interested in the sum, which costs them something and the performance of these costs. It is also gratifying that the Ministry of Finance is trying to take up and implement our proposals. For example – a very positive point – the obligation to pay interest is now made more specific, so that the citizen can rely on it in good time and perhaps also consider choosing a different form of payment which is ultimately cheaper for him than to apply for support. Meanwhile, we also need to improve the banking service. Many of the complaints made to me and made to the public prosecutor's office in the past cannot be resolved through bank supervision. That is why the People's Procuratorate already in 1993 demanded that a bank Ombudsman be present. A working group has now been set up at the Chamber of Commerce, which is called "Ombudsstelle der Österreichische Creditwirtschaft" and is a central contact for those concerned, but also for us, the People's Procuratorate. To the extent that it is about the frequently discussed – you will remember – problems related to the interest settlement and it has affected them in the past, the Public Prosecutor's Office has cooperated with the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Court of Justice in establishing the "Convention for Accounting Control". The Chambers of Workers and the "Consumer Information Association" have always carried out these calculations, but the "Convention for Accounting Control" is also addressed to the traders and to farmers. Several times in the past, here in the House – even when I was a Member of Parliament here – the problem of the shade of gardening was addressed. I think that, on the basis of the survey I organised in the autumn of last year, the problems could be discussed in such a way that I – and I say so quite openly – expect that it will now come to an appropriate government template – I hope, as quickly as possible; but definitely still in this year. Mr President Kostelka and Mr Stadler have already talked about our wishes regarding the further development of fundamental rights, they have already mentioned the issue of ORF. Let me focus on just three topics that I personally have done in my business for the next few months, even if they do not exclusively concern the federal level, because I am also a national attorney of the individual federal states, except Vorarlberg and Tirol, on the basis of the business classification. The first issue is the problem of reciprocity – perhaps you have seen the broadcast last Saturday, in this case it was about such a case – namely the reciprocity of land in Greenland and transport areas. There is no significant loss of value, which is only partially - if at all - paid off. The second issue – this is an increasing problem in the agglomeration centres – is the noise development and noise pollution of citizens, a subject which is not always taken into account to the extent necessary. This too will be a central point of my future activity. In both areas, which I have now mentioned, we are dealing with important influences and effects on life planning, but also on quality of life. Thirdly, I am constantly confronted with various areas of support. In particular, different income calculations are carried out depending on the promotion: I would like to talk about a jungle which cannot be brought to the public in this form or which is confusing for the citizen. I wonder whether this does not also mean a significant part or a significant increase in the administrative burden, whether one should take action from two points of view, namely civil kindness and a reduction in administrative burden. I would like to prepare these three areas in such a way that the legislative authorities have the opportunity to find out about it, because Parliaments have to decide – in this case the majority is right, because I also cooperate with the national parliaments. That is why, of course, we are also working with you, ladies and gentlemen, to achieve good cooperation. I am saving myself in this context to repeat what my previous speakers have already said: Only by a really good cooperation can we do well to fulfill our mission that you have given us. I would remind you of the words of individual Members on the occasion of our election to popular lawyers, who said that we should not be a scepter, but ask for the citizens. We will, with one or the other and with the proposals that appear in our reports, also call upon you to implement our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9120	The next item is the report by Mr Herz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9141	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! I also wish you a lot of success, a lot of strength and endurance – you will need it in the next few days; my appreciation also applies to your employees – because the social policy of this federal government will cause you a lot of work. If the social state is reduced when the elbow society is forced when a two-class medicine comes to us when the incomes of the older generation are drastically reduced when prospects of young people are installed, yes, ladies and gentlemen, the lawyers will have a lot of work. [[Abg. Böhacker: Which country do you live in? So you don't live in Austria!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: A meager applause!]] To the staff: partly a very good staffing of the People's Procuratorate. Volksanwaltin Rosemarie Baueris known to us as a sympathetic and committed colleague. Public attorney Peter Kostelka: Competence and experience through many years, just predestined for this office. And to Volksanwalt Ewald Stadler: at least one relief, ladies and gentlemen, that he does not return to the National Council as a Member, because his language, his diction, his choice of words has improved somewhat, and that is a real considerable progress in his case. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That was next!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the social policy of this federal government, desperate people will come to your speaking hours, which are mercilessly pushed out of this society, namely the lawless and the wicked, as the FPÖ People's Advocate Stadler has formulated. Tag: working some. These are people who are full of work and still are in poverty. These include accident pensioners and people who are punished by ambulance charges and by the burden on health and health in the Federal Government. This concerns in particular the older generation that has built up this social state. It is now being pushed to the edge of society, because the most common complaints are to be registered in the social field. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The pensioner Blecha was already there!]] Another important point, Mr Cott lawyer: In the field of justice – I quote from the "parliamentary correspondence" – citizens seeking help cannot help the public prosecutors very often because civil law problems, which are in charge of and for themselves district courts, are addressed. That's where I wonder: In view of its intelligence to carry out a barrage at the District Courts, is it possible to remove a large number of courts? Are not local courts also there to address problems and concerns of the population in these areas? Ladies and gentlemen! I have always been in favour of a reform in this area. Where even a judge is not used or where distances are very small, you can put together dishes. There are still a few small dishes in Styria, also in Upper Austria and in Salzburg, but this ballast, ladies and gentlemen, is to be rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! That the ÖVP delegates do not get dizzy in this sluggish course of their clubman, I wonder something. Mr Klubobmann Khol was originally opposed to a combination of district courts. Then he signed that he is for that – this document of vocabulary stifled in the club of the ÖVP – then he was against it again in plenary, but now he is again for it. So much for the political reliability of the ÖVP Klubobman Khol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] Mr. Drinkl! That you don't get dizzy in this sluggish course, that can only surprise you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Lower Austria, the reform was completed at the courts, it was said ten years ago, and today 14 district courts are closed. In Styria, Mr Drinkl, who is you Steirer, party policy criteria are crucial for selecting closures. In fact, all of this is not justified. What does your basic officer, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, say about this closure, the Gröbminger ÖVP mayor Johanna Gruber? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mr Steibl, I quote: "I am disappointed and sore, especially because there is no reason why the district court in Gröbming should be closed." And what does the liberal national councillor and mayor of Öblarn Anton Knerzl say about this? – I quote: "The courts in this form are a disaster and the worst thing you could do for the district of Liezen." He also says that this is a friendly economy between an ÖVP council and an ÖVP mayor. "Stinksauer", "that's where it pulled away the ground", "Catastrophe", "unacceptable cow trade" – read to me, ladies and gentlemen, what your basic officials say about what you're doing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The courts will be closed, the People's Procuratorate will have more work, and you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, bear the responsibility for destroying rural infrastructure. But be sure that you will get the bill presented at the next National Council elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9277	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9341	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Dear High House! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to address the ASVG problem, which the public prosecutor Kostelka has highlighted, in a matter of fact – and not as polemic as my previous speaker did. It's unfortunate that the victim protection is too short. We have a crime victim law in Austria, Mr. Volksanwalt Kostelka, and this applies subsidiary to the ASVG. The countries would have to do this in their social budgets, but unfortunately they do not do so sufficiently, with the argument that, anyway, the ASVG applied and those people who have become victims of a crime, without being socially insured or then, I have received an answer when cases are referred to the social referents who are similar, this could anyway be regulated by other pots. I guess there's a legal gap. I have become very aware of this, and I will try to make progress in the work that we are closing it. However, I would ask the People's Procuratorate to force the countries a little more, to observe and to do the crime victim law so that such cases can also be handled. This is currently taking place to an insufficient extent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a judicial speaker of my party, I find it particularly regrettable that a large number of complaints about shortcomings in the field of justice are coming to the public prosecutor's office. In the majority of these complaints, however, the People's Procuratorate is not responsible. However, the proposals of the former Volksanwälter Korosec for better control of the judiciary have immediately been regarded by the Justice itself as an attack on the independence of the judges and therefore has not been implemented. In addition to the cases for which the public prosecutor is not responsible, hundreds of complaints remain in the competence of the public prosecutor. These relate in particular to the long duration of proceedings, fees, but also to the lack of care of the courts. Unfortunately, however, every proposal for the control of justice, both by justice itself and by the opposition, is considered massively as an attack on the independence of justice, and thus the control of justice is effectively prevented. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! But with this, you are buying the shortcomings in the area of justice – to the detriment of the right-seeking population! Remember next time, in a critical way, that control of justice might be useful to the protection of the population. I would now like to say something about the legislative suggestions contained in the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office: I am particularly interested in those who concern the Committee on Justice and I can say: I've been trying to get a little bit further. It was suggested by the People's Procuratorate to create a state-wide home contract law. I cannot join this in this form, because this home contract law should contain consumer protection provisions on the one hand, but also the restriction of freedom. In my opinion, and in my opinion, freedom rights are not contractual. There needs to be a separate solution based on the accommodation law, and the home contract must be something else as a consumer protection provision. Both legislative projects are already on track. We have set up a subcommittee in which we have already given intensive advice and accepted it as a suggestion from the public prosecutors. The same applies to the shadow problem raised by Mr Bauer. These are the cases in which a person takes a right to light for himself because plants, trees of the neighbor make him too much shade. Thankfully, there has been a survey – I thank you, Mrs. Volksanwälter Bauer – and in this survey these problems have been discussed with experts. I'm against self-help myself. It should not be possible for the neighbor to come and back to high trees or remove the plants because they make him too much shade. I think the property is so safe that not everyone can enter a foreign garden and cut the hedge in it. I believe, however, that there is an increased right of compensation or a right to a third party. In this sense, we will improve civil law. I thank you for the very informative report, which also facilitates our work here.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9414	Mr Knerzl spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9439	Mr President. High house! On the debate contribution of Dr. Günther Kräubföchte, I note that no "friendly economy" between FPÖ and ÖVP has existed in the closure of the district courts. I myself am not happy about the location situation, but this was necessary in the course of the administrative reform. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9477	The next speaker was Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9499	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would point out the inappropriate words of Deputies Dr. Kräuben to Volksanwalt Mag. Stadler back to the sharpest. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's just inappropriate where you know very well that People's attorney likes to. Stadler is very likely to be present in front of your group, in front of SPÖ representatives. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 8 605 files, 4 704 examinations completed – this is how the public prosecutor's activity looked out in naked figures in 2000. This concerns only the report to Parliament, not the reports on seven days of land. There are single-chicksales, where citizens are seeking help and, with the request for review of alleged or suspected maladministrations in the administration, contact the Volksanwälte. The strength of the People's Procuratorate is that it acts as a citizen-friendly, independent and unbureaucratically. The public prosecutorship is of great importance to public control in the service of the rule of law and democracy. We have seen the importance of absolute independence of the highest authorities in the rule of law and democracy in the last few days in the discussion about the Constitutional Court. The necessary institution must be able to bring the Constitutional Court back out of the field of day-to-day policy through even greater transparency. In this connection, I would like to refer to the request made by Mr Dr. Khol and Ing. ==References== March 2000 on the democratic package, in which increased transparency in the appointment of the Supreme Judges – keyword: Assessment Commission – to strengthen confidence in independence and objectivity of the Constitutional Court. This has not been supported by SPÖ so far. I regard the comments made yesterday by Klubobmann Cap regarding public hearing candidates as a good signal. Back to the People's Procuratorate, who feels obliged to help the citizens in an exemplary way. The aim of the Public Prosecutorship is to improve the quality of the administration in Austria. In this respect, I am quite different from my colleague Mr Petrovic and I believe that legislative suggestions from the public prosecutor's office are taken up very well and a further development of the law – keyword: Administrative reform – lead. The importance of the television broadcast "Volksanwalt" has already been discussed. I would also like to mention the book "The Work of the Public Prosecutor's Office" by Ingrid Korosec, which contains work and future perspectives for the Public Prosecutor's Office. Examples of future prospects: for example, the right of initiative and the already mentioned extension of control competence to distributed legal entities, similar to the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors – a long-standing demand of the liberals, already addressed by the Volksanstalts, a very important perspective for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to the lawyers for the end of my speech: to Ingrid Korosec, Dr. Christa Krammer and Horst Schender for the activity report 2000 and the first half of 2001, to the new Volksanwälte Rosemarie Bauer, Dr. Peter Kostelkaund Mag. Ewald Stadler for the first seven months of her activity. Dear People's Lawyers! You need the rule of law of Austria and the Austrian citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9568	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9589	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr. State Secretary! I would like to discuss with you the issue raised by Mr Volksanwalt Stadler when he said that he did not want to question the sensibleness of the exclusions. There is one issue which, I believe, will affect less the public prosecutor's office than the Court of Auditors and which could be very well discussed about the sensibleness of exclusions. An example would be Artothek – you know, Mr State Secretary – where this will continue to concern us. Now to you, Mr Mag. Stadler. They're known to me as a rhetorician, in which the rhetoric sometimes goes through something. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Not with the oillinger?- Oh, my God!]] You have argued at the beginning of your remarks on your own, and I didn't think that so well, while I have learned to appreciate you when you argue in the case of the People's Procuratorate, because you are doing your thing well. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is more appropriate for you to use this rhetoric in the interests and in the case of the public prosecutors than for the citizens – yes, you are right – as at the beginning of your speech. [[Call to the liberals: It is for the citizens!]] There is no doubt for me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, that the reports of the Public Procuratorate and their content have a very important meaning. This is what you, Dr. Kostelka, have confirmed to us today with your reference to the way in which social security law is viewed and who is then the injured person, although he is actually the one who has suffered the damage in such a trade. We had this debate on the occasion of the introduction of ambulance charges in Parliament, because it was precisely as a pass that was resumed and the government parties were not prepared to discuss it at all. I know it's old right, so to speak, something that this government has not developed from itself, but which unfortunately in the ASVG – you have to say that – has a long-standing unholy tradition, as well as some other provisions in the ASVG or also in unemployment insurance law. I can only say from my practice as a social spokesperson: I would like Parliament to take note of and debate a little more intensively the suggestions made by the public prosecutors and, if not only what I think is good, to thank them for being here. I am, of course, pleased that they exist, but it is a question of discussing what is in the reports and what is not only a suggestion in individual cases, but also a suggestion about how legislation should be changed, for example in the area of unemployment insurance law, here and it will also be implemented. It does not help us if we receive wonderful reports from the People's Procuratorate year after year, give thanks to the lawyers and then send them home again, but nothing changes in practice and law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In practice – with this I want to limit this criticism – something is changing insofar as you, the lawyers, achieve something in your practical contacts with authorities and institutions without the legislator being dealt with. This has led me to a problem that the legislator should have been concerned about and for himself, at least in your intention, but it has not been. That's an undocument, that's not there! [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the Special Report on the allocation of heating aid for the period 2000/20001.]] It is kept as official documents, and it was also a number on it, which features such documents as any usual document with an accompanying number and marks it as a parliamentary template. There is a parliamentary question by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, who is asked how it could be that this document originally contained an official number, although the President – I say: in her immeasurable wisdom – decided that there is no such document. The President – I repeat: in her infinite wisdom – decided only at the request of the members of the government parties in such a way that there should not be, while the opposition parties felt that this should already be done. This is also the case, and I thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate, and I also thank Mr President Fischer – I assume you too will have made your contribution to it, President Prinzhorn – for allowing us to discuss it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The "Special Report on heating aid in the 2000/2001 heating period" is not only a unique document because, in terms of quality and the way in which it deals with a problem, it clearly distinguishes itself from other reports, but also because it asks the legislator very directly: Please, if you do something like heating aid, think of how you do it so that the countries can implement it in such a way that it makes sense! It's clear: According to this report, no one can say that the heating cost action, as it was carried out, had a special meaning because the countries made it completely different. At a meeting with the people's lawyers here in the House – an "illegal meeting", one could almost say that if one were to overwhelm it –, at a klandestin meeting of representatives with the People's Procuratorate, across all parties, found that we wanted to have these reports and, above all, such reports, whether in white or otherwise in a color, and every Member, whether by the ÖVP or FPÖ, SPÖ and the Greens, thought that this should also be done in the future. That is why I would also like to call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to be in favour of such a future. In this context, I would like to inform you of the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since you, the representatives of the government parties and the representatives of the opposition parties, in this agreement felt that this should be done, I would also ask you to agree to this resolution and thus the possibility of creating a better opportunity for the public prosecutors to contact us with the corresponding consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9685	Mr Oellinger! I have studied your motion for a resolution and have read Agenda item 1 again, which reads as follows: Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Twenty-fourth Report of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the period from 1 January to 31 December. Years until 31. ==References== I do not think that your motion for a resolution is in any way related to this item on the agenda. Therefore, according to § 55 para. 6 do not apply for this motion for a resolution. The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: To the Rules of Procedure, please!]] Please, Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9723	Thank you, Mr President. It won't surprise you: Of course, we take note of your decision, but I would like to say to the Minutes that I am somewhat surprised about it. The links with the item on the agenda must be given, but they have always been interpreted in this area in a, we say, fairly generous framework. The fact that there is a report from the Public Prosecutor's Office is not seriously disputed. It is not even seriously disputed that it is another report of the Public Procuratorate, which concerns almost the same period. In fact, we are dealing with the 2000/2001 heating period, while today we are discussing the twenty-fourth report of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the period of the 1st century. Years until 31. ==References== That there is no connection here, Mr President, I can only take note of this with great surprise.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9761	Mr Prehauser has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! High house! Mr State Secretary! The public prosecutor's report was discussed in depth. A lawyer mentioned that the People's Procuratorate existed for 25 years, but he did not mention that it required an absolutely ruling social democratic government to use this instrument of control. I can tell you that the measure adopted at that time has proved to be very successful and that it is also good for a party with absolute majority and government to highlight control, but also to strengthen the opposition. We also know that not only the larger opposition, at that time the ÖVP, but also the Freedom Party, has got a seat in the People's Procuratorate. Ladies and gentlemen! If citizens no longer know how to proceed, it is good that there is this instrument. It is good that many citizens have already been able to fight with the help of the People's Procuratorate in such a way that they have finally come to their right. I am grateful to the People's Procuratorate for this. We can be satisfied, ladies and gentlemen, but only if we do not have 8 600 cases on hundreds of pages of reports, but if the number of cases goes down to 100 and the pages of the reports will be fewer in the future. To achieve this, however, will not be very easy in the near future, Ladies and gentlemen, if there are still cases in Austria such as those which I have just brought up in the Steno style: A citizen of this country: sickness-related retirement due to severe lung suffering, subsequent divorce, withdrawal from the common home, new love, child, marriage, transfer to the house of the new woman with which the path of suffering began. His new wife's house is on a plot in Hungary. From the time of transfer, it was no longer possible to get a regulated pension assignment, and multiple intervention in the competent pension insurance, once also in the competent ministry, has actually led only to the following hammery remark by the staff there: Well, we already know how to say goodbye in early retirement, to go abroad, where the money is worth three times as much. This kind of treatment, ladies and gentlemen, does not need to be liked by a citizen or a citizen of this country! It is appropriate, with the help of the People's Procuratorate, to examine and correct this case. The livelihood to be fought for a young family has apparently not caused any concern to these officials. We are concerned about social democrats, and in the future we will see to it that such cases become fewer. Apart from the fact that no assistance has been received from the authorities, this family father concerned, the BAWAG, who was responsible for the payment of pensions at the time, was able to meet a gentlemen’s agreement. After the documents for the authorisation of the pension relationship had been reviewed, BAWAG concluded an agreement that a prepayment would be made. Of course, the interest on default was to be taken from the referee, not from the late paying authority. But – and now the clone of the whole comes – since the latest BAWAG is no longer responsible for pension payments, one is resorting to a German banking consortium, and the first "love", "contacting" letter to those concerned has had the following content: Due to the changes, you have to expect a 30-day delay in the payment of the pension in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! These are, of course, cases that must no longer happen, but where the public prosecutorship is simply predestined to stop them. We Socialists continue to control the administration for 25 years after the creation of the People's Procuratorate. I am not quite sure with the government now in office, nor with regard to where one knows that freeman promises in the election campaign that if citizens want to stand up against officials, the affected official will be provided with an attorney. On the one hand, this was a campaigning gag, an appeal to a small professional group, but on the other hand, a pre-condemning of those who make a complaint. That's not how it can be, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the ÖVP is silent about it being enough to present the Federal Chancellor. It's too little for us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9839	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9861	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr. State Secretary! It is very gratifying that this year the public prosecutor has again presented such a comprehensive, detailed and informative report. Many thanks to the former folk lawyers Krammer and Korosec and to the former Mr. Volksanwalt Schender. It was a good job they did, and I wish them wherever they are now, a nice, good retirement and that they can really enjoy it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The People's Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen – popular lawyer Peter Kostelka has already mentioned this today – is an important instrument in a democracy. 120 member states of the United Nations have installed popular prosecutors, ombudsmen, ombudsmen – this is a sign. Public prosecutors are often mediators for the concerns of citizens and often the last possible veneration in disputes between the authorities and the citizens. The People's Procuratorate is and remains an important corrective. As a member of the Committee on the Interior and as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, human and fundamental rights have always been a great need. That is why, in this report, I have dealt in particular with the chapter of Horst Schender concerning the Ministry of the Interior. There – Mrs. Stoisits has already mentioned this – there is a great lack, says Volksanwalt Schender, there is a lack of caution in dealing with fundamental and freedom rights. I am very glad that this issue is being addressed in the next report of the Public Prosecutor's Office, because it is necessary to see how the reports of Mr. Volksanwalt Schender – in the period under review – are still popular lawyers. People's attorney Mag. Stadler has already mentioned the example with the alco test in the bedroom; this is a more than inconvenient example. Finally, the person who refused the alcomat test was handcuffed. Is that necessary? Hasn't that shot beyond the target? – In any case, the public prosecutor has found that the principle of proportionality has not been taken into account here. This example shows how necessary it is to be in this area – it has already been said – with fingertips. Another example, also from this chapter, can be read in the People's Procuratorate's Report on page 78: "Leibesvisitation without consideration for shame and hygiene". If a youth, a young man of 18 years of age, has to carry out investigations into himself in a public park, if the suspicion is unfounded and then not even an excuse is considered appropriate, then I believe to say that there would be more fingertips, more proportionality – as the public prosecutor says – in relation to the relationship between authorities and executives. This is especially necessary in the case of safety executives. Here, on the one hand, there is the monopoly of violence and on the other side of the citizens who are exposed to it. In this sense, I hope, I am even convinced that this special part, which the lawyers will bring into the next report, will be an important instrument for awareness-raising and for the better relationship between the authorities and the citizens and the complainants. The importance and necessity of the public prosecutor's institution has also shown the example of the ASVG, which Mr Peter Kostelka has impressively described today. Here, above all, the women are victims. If that were to happen if this gap were closed, as promised by the chairman of the Committee on Justice, then, I believe, a lot of injustice would be done out of the world. The form of office would no longer be as loud and would not bring so much suffering on women – in this case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to thank you, the new lawyers who have been in office for half a year, for the work already done. You went to work with a lot of momentum. The special report, which was not allowed to be officially discussed here, but which nevertheless entered the debate, has already been mentioned. That's good, that's right, that was necessary – thank you very much for this work! Thank you also for allowing you to re-install the broadcast "Volksanwalt" on TV. I think that is also a source of trust for those who complain, and on the other hand for the awareness of the problem also of our side, the legislator. Finally, as chairman of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, I also want to say that we are concerned about finding a form of cooperation with you that helps the citizen. Perhaps we can invite you to one of the next committee meetings, then we could jointly consider working together on the right instrument for the citizen to come to his/her right. – In this sense, I thank you very much, much success and all the good for my birthday.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9939	For the second time, Mr Oellinger has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e9960	Mr President. We do not have much else to take note of your decision. They have denied the substance of the link between a report by the People's Procuratorate on heating aid 2000/2001 and the People's Procuratorate's Report today on the 2000 Report, although this issue was discussed in the debate, although it was also addressed by the Volksanstalts and, of course, it plays an important role in the context of a report by the Public Procuratorate on the year 2000, to discuss and to take note of the conclusions drawn by the Public Procuratorate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please allow me to comment as follows: Such an approach to a report from the People's Procuratorate – and that is what it is about – is simply childish. It's simply childish! We should be glad that the People's Procuratorate has prepared this report. The Members who took part in the corresponding discussion with the Volksanwälten were happy about this and wanted to discuss it with the Volksanwälten. Ladies and gentlemen! I am now submitting the following motion for a resolution, if it is true-founding and decision-making: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we were helped with this – and it would help us – that we could discuss documents from the public prosecutor's office and take them into account as documents, not only as any secret post being pushed back and forth between the authorities, then, I think, we should also do so and thank the public prosecutor for showing this particular zeal in her work.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10029	The motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, Mr Ollinger, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. – The study of the Rules of Procedure has paid off. No one is reporting on this. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for the committee to take note of this report III-98 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on heating aid. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (944 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Arrest of War Law (985 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10092	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10119	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The coincidence that I have to talk again now, I didn't want to, but it's like that. It's about the war prisoners' compensation law now. The Greens voted against in committee, and I also tell you why we voted against it, ladies and gentlemen. It is a little different when Mr Bruckmann wanted to report this to the public in an OTS release. This is not a "flag" in the face of the pensioners – if you already get so neatly into the keys, Mr Bruckmann, then you have to quote your lyrical qualities. It's not a blow in the face of the pensioners. If you want to stick to this maritime rhetoric – it's not mine, but, Mr Bruckmann, I don't want to take it up with you in this respect either –: [[Abg. Großruck: You can't do that either!]] You have certainly read what Mr. Federal Minister said in the "Kronen Zeitung" of 4. He wrote on the pensions for 2002. The pension adjustment is balanced because it prefers small and medium-sized pensions and thus guarantees pensions for all in the long term. – This is a blow, Mr Bruckmann. This is a blow, and it would be good for you to reply to this "inserat of consolation" of the Minister of Social Affairs at the time. A request or decision-making was also preceded in the above-mentioned Secretariat, which could be described as a "small stomach blow" in order to remain in your rhetoric, because it is essential that laws be praised in the public even before they are adopted. Every act of administration, I have learned here in the house, needs a corresponding legal basis. However, the legal basis for such an advertisement was missing. The Minister of Social Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, can turn on advertisements in which he refers to laws and the like, but he cannot propagandistly try to point to projects – projects that have not yet been decided. But be it, that's not the problem! The problem we had with the war prisoners compensation law – and we still have that, which is also very clear by the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic colleagues – is that this war prisoner compensation law does not differ whether in the Second World War there was a voluntary or unwilling work for an enemy power. Then: If we are the first victim, Mr Bruckmann, then the soldiers who had been recruited for the German Wehrmacht at the time were on the road for a false military force, unfortunately, but they had to do so, and there is no reason to polemise about it somehow. But unfortunately there were also many Austrians at this Wehrmacht who wanted to do this, who were active in special units: at the Waffen-SS, the SS et cetera. Although you have included a corresponding provision in the law, you cannot sufficiently ensure that exactly these persons do not also benefit from this compensation. The amendment tabled by the Socialist Group provides that those who took part in the First World War, after all, took part in a war for Austria, will also benefit from compensation. – That would be folly! It can't be that we only want to equip those who took part in a war for the German Wehrmacht and suffered in prison camps with this compensation. That is why, Mr Bruckmann, it would have been important for us to do something in this context for the others who were not just victims of war but victims of National Socialism. For this reason, we have already tabled a motion for a resolution in the Committee which I am now putting to the plenary session: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you want the war prisoners' law, you also have to do something for the victims. If one wants to have the war prisoners compensation law – and there are good reasons for that, too, Mr Bruckmann – then one must not only reward those with a premium that worked during World War II, but then this compensation for those who suffered must also apply to those who worked during the First World War, because at that time it was not the German Wehrmacht for whom the people had to go to war. If we are already setting up acts here as the Republic of Austria, please also those that are somewhat compliant with our image of this republic and our past, so that we can look back on it with dignity and dignity for the victims of National Socialism, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10177	The motion for a resolution which has just been drawn up by Members of Parliament, Mr Ollinger, Mr President, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Dietachmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10201	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of this novel of the War Arrest Law, one could claim that this is once again an example of the fact that the guiding principle of this government, namely "Speed kills", not only leads to sloppy laws, but also to injustices. In this case, however, it is not true that in the original version of the War Arrest Detention Act, you have experienced a sluggish error, but you have consciously wanted and decided on this inequality between the East Prisoners and the West Prisoners. That is why we did not agree to this law at the time. I called last year for equality between all prisoners of war and for a parliamentary request to you, Minister of State. The government parties have repeatedly prevented a decision to extend this law. You yourself, Prime Minister, have answered a question on 5 May. In July 2001, the inequality of Western and East prisoners did not regret it as a mistake, but even defended it. Among other things, you meant: "An extension of this regime to prisoners of war in the West would have been a much higher cost...." You have, because of a relatively modest amount, I say now, deliberately put the West prisoners worse than the East Prisoners, and now you are talking about the fact that now the prisoners of the Western Allies are finally going through justice. This is the typical FPÖ tactics: First, you make people bitter, create injustices, and then you want to sell the elimination of the injustices and abuses created by you as success. – This is the policy of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A political program should not only have hands and feet, but above all also heart and brain, but with this law novel you have once again proved that this is not the case with you. I have been surprised that the Minister of Social Affairs has at all responded to such an unequal treatment, which is even unconstitutional. The passage to the Constitutional Court is now saving us. In view of the permanent attacks by the FPÖ on the Constitutional Court, I think this is not unfortunate either. He might have had to object again to a law of the Federal Government, which would have exposed him again to unworthy attacks from Carinthia. This new regime is a success of the opposition, which has repeatedly referred to this inequality of East and West prisoners. Countless outraged people have reported themselves. Since all of these beneficiaries are of the high retirement age, it should be noted that, in view of inflation and the disappointing concessions to pensioners, the amounts granted can be only symbolic of the generation of war. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude my remarks with a letter sent to me by a victim; this is also to illustrate how necessary this novel of the prisoner of war is: "It is clear from nothing that Austrians who have been trained in coal pits in France and Belgium under inhuman conditions who have had to work in quarries and sulphur caves in northern Greece or who have been detained in Moroccan prisons should not receive compensation." I and my group will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10271	The next item is the speech by Mr Bruckmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10303	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! As a member of the Austrian Seniors' Federation and as the oldest member of the House – almost followed by Harald Ofner, who is on the speaker's list immediately after me – it is my heart's need to speak to me on this subject. As the birth of 1932, I have still experienced the horrors of war, although only passively. I have experienced bombing attacks, shootings by deep-flyers, was used as a 12-year-old as a so-called pimp to clean-up after bomb attacks; when then the first bodies became visible, children were led to our side. But this was nothing compared to what those who were only few years older than we had to participate in. No soldier in this war forced on him for his pleasure in cold and wet days, yes, for weeks hungry and frivolous in the cane. No one has broken down with enthusiasm of pomegranates or has been shot to the brimstone. And those who were lucky enough to survive the war more or less unharmed did not enjoy the hardships of the captivity of war. Everyone has suffered, terriblely suffered – mostly, but not always, in the East even more than in the West, and many of them, only too many, have perished in the captivity of war. High house! This government has begun to pursue an iron saving course, but precisely through the necessary budget consolidation, it has created a free space that allows it to set accents and also to purchase higher government expenditure in certain areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] One such accent was the introduction of the childcare allowance in the interest of the young Austrians. Another one was the disabled billion. I am happy to be able to experience this day on which the Republic of Austria places such an emphasis towards the oldest fellow citizens by bowing with this symbolic sign to the sufferings of those who had to experience the horrors of war and captivity. Mr Oellinger! You misquoted my press release. I didn't say: Faustschlag in the face of the pensioners, but: a fist in the face of our older fellow citizens, who, after a war effort imposed on them, had to endure untold suffering in the captivity of war. And I'll stay there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But with regard to compensation for veterans of the First World War, I must say that I am willing to prepare something together with you, but taking into account the fact that the youngest of those years should be 102 years old. High house! But let us look back not only, but also into the future! We say a clear yes to the agreement of all of Europe, to create a zone of peace in a world that is still full of military struggles – a zone of peace in which God may prevent any subsequent generation from experiencing such a war.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10368	Mr Dr. Ofner, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10389	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, today's novelle closes a gap. I'm glad that Dietachmayr too is happy about it. He comes a little late, like his colleagues in the political groups and others, because 57 years would have been time to do something in this direction. I do not want to know what you would have answered us if we had been here in this House five or ten years ago out of opposition to this matter. You did not think of doing anything for the prisoners, namely for the prisoners from the Austrian areas who were imprisoned in World War II after World War II. That means: Pouring tears now is honorable, but it comes about years too late! I would like to remind everyone that after the 8. In May, as a prisoner, he was held in custody of international law, for it is still valid right – and others may write behind his ears – that prisoners of war can only be made in wars at first – but then they are prisoners of war – and that they are to be released on the day on which the war has ended. It's just forgotten. ==References== May all would have been released. Even if one has been made to starve prisoners because, as one claimed, they cannot be fed, then the process of leaving them in captivity has violated the Geneva Convention. If someone who makes a prisoner can't feed them, then the Convention demands that he release them immediately. So I'm with the differences between the East and the West prisoners. They're smaller than the propaganda sometimes wants to make us believe. We all know that East captivity, in Russia, in Yugoslavia, in Poland, in the Czech Republic, in very high percentages – some say, in some areas almost always – has meant death. It's less known that the same thing happened in the West. I remember the one million starving in the American so-called Rhine meadow camps. The figures are not from Austria, have not been researched in Germany either, but especially Canadian historians have made themselves deserved in this direction and claim that Eisenhower should have said: We killed too few Germans! - A million is starved! The Swiss and others who had the food they had all supplied have not been allowed into the camps. They were forbidden to taste the prisoners. – A million people who were illegally detained among the Americans after the war in Germany, in the so-called Rheinwiesen camps! The proceedings in English captivity have also dealt with this House: for example, the rooms of mine fields in Denmark and Schleswig-Holstein by forcing German prisoners in chain through the mine fields. If someone went up to a mine, you knew afterwards: There was a mine! The French, for example, have had the argument: We will treat the prisoners in such a way that they report in the highest possible number to the alien legion, because we need the people for Dien Bien Phu and the surrounding area; it was war in Indochina already. And in fact, in almost all of the alien legion in a row, the language of association has been German. That's what you need to remember. It is also a charge for civilians; Citizens from all directions that have come to handcushion abroad, for example in today's Yugoslavia and today's Romania, where children of German mother tongues from 16 to 60 years of age have been taken to Russia, have been forced to work under day in coal mining and have not allowed them to come home for up to ten years. It's all so vague in memory, but it's loud facts you can't forget. Those affected by the First World War – that’s right and beautiful, at once one thinks that this would actually be just, but unfortunately there is no more factual background! I remember when I was a minister once every few weeks the old Dr. Stern – the Michael, not the Peter – came to me and has unboxed the recent proof of transfer of his honor for the Great Golden Courage medal he had from the First World War. He always said: "Mr. Minister, that's my favorite income, that's what I'm most proud of!" – That may have been a lot of money in the First World War, in the time I was talking about, it was 62 S or so, but we all know that the old Dr. Stern, who was then around 92 years old, has long been dead. That is to say, we would make a law for a population which unfortunately is no longer alive and which is no longer in question as a standard address. It closes a gap. All those who complain that there has been this gap so far, who may have taken their own to the nose, because they had been able to do something years and decades earlier, in the role of the absolute majority party, in the role of the Social Minister of the Red and Black Coalition, who was always a Social Democratic. So you could have done something a long time ago. It's good that it's finally happening. It is quite clear that it is not a real compensation for disasters that have been suffered. It is a symbolic gift to show that we have not forgotten the sufferings of those concerned, that we want to remember them positively, and that we want to recognize clearly what they had to do. No human has wanted it, only crazy people have voluntarily gone to war, of which everyone has to know that he will end with terrible losses on all sides. Finally, the fact that those affected were still illegally detained for up to ten years and longer has left the barrel still to the ground. We are proud and happy that it has been this government that has finally caught up with the failure of the past decades, and this also includes the law to be decided today.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10484	Mr Nürnberger has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10506	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make a few brief comments on this new law. I will do so free of any political polemics, nor will I take part in this discussion, because if you, Mr Ofner, have spoken of decades of failure, I should remind you that there have been some years in which there has been a red and blue government in which you yourself have been ministers. At that time, you could have done something here and become an initiative. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the Social Minister was always from the SPÖ! Dallinger was the Minister of Social Affairs!]] We have had an ÖVP government alone, we have had a red-blue government, we have had a red-black government – we do not argue about it! I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that today we are eliminating an injustice, an injustice that has resulted from it being dependent on where and when you have been imprisoned, whether you get compensation or not. Let me also make a few comments on the issue of the First World War. I am already with Mr Bruckmann and you too, Mr Ofner: The people concerned will be to the hundred years old, that is not a question, but there are still some. I should like to remind you, Minister of State: ==References== You have admitted on July 2001, that the differences are not justified. They have also announced that it will be considered to include them in this compensation, but we do not find this group in the government paper. It's probably just about a handful of people, but it's also about not distinguishing between a good war and a bad war: Whoever was in the Second World War does not get something that was in the First World War. Prisoners who have been imprisoned by war operations who have suffered severe suffering for our home country of Austria should be treated as soon as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore allow myself to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really looking for you: Perhaps we also eliminate a symbolic injustice, an injustice that affects only a few people, but as I said: There can be no distinction in "good" and "bad" wars!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10580	The amendment just read by Mr Nürnberger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. On a point of view, Mr Mag. Main report. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10605	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very pleased that the vast majority of the House will take part in the present bill and that, with the exception of Mr Öllinger, all the previous speakers felt that a final stone was finally set here to take into account the generation of the war participants of the First and Second World Wars into account. Mr Nürnberger, on the question raised by you, I can tell you that no single letter and no request ever arrived at our ministry with regard to prisoners of war from the First World War. Therefore, we regret to note from our side that the group of persons addressed in your amendment proposal cannot be found by the Ministry because in this case there are no addresses, reports, interventions by associations and others. I have nothing against including the circle of prisoners of war in the First World War, but I believe that we are doing a legitimate task here – because too late – for a group which unfortunately cannot be found by our ministry. In this context, however, I would also like to express my appreciation for his research and his efforts at the university professor Dr. Karner, because in connection with the problem to be dealt with today, university professor Dr. Karner and his institute have done significant preparatory work. Many former prisoners of war today are able to provide proof of their captivity of war through international archives and the materials there, if they have lost their own documents in post-war confusion, so that they too can benefit from this law decision, this closing stone. I should like to add something to the discussion – Mr Nürnberger has referred to my opinion before Parliament at the time – that the question of the small group of the civilised old Austrian minority is also addressed with this draft law of today. According to the scientists, there are about 1 000 to a maximum of 2 500 people who also had to do forced work from this circle and, as an interned person, mainly from the old-Austrian minorities of the Banatian Swabians, the seven-citizens of Saxony, the Gottscheer, the Mährer and the Sudeten Germans, who were negatively affected by the events of World War II and the subsequent forced labour. Mr Dietachmayr of the Socialist Group said that we had done wrong here. First of all, we have taken into account those prisoners of war who were in captivity in the East States of the former Warsaw Pact, because, as you know, Mr Dietachmayr, during the negotiations on the reparation services of the Republic of Austria, the forced labour done in the former Warsaw Pact results in a reduction in the reparation payments to the Soviet Union, to the East, which has had a positive impact on the entire state of Austria. We were therefore also constitutional in the Federal Government, I believe that this group should have the first right to the funds available at that time. However, I, as the responsible Social Minister – as well as the Federal Government – have always stressed after I took office, that what is in place here today is our goal to set a comprehensive conclusion to the compensation in this area. I am therefore pleased that the National Council sees in its majority the same as the Federal Government saw in its decision in December of the previous year. The ads outlined by Mr Öllinger have, of course, presupposed the decision-making of the Federal Government. I should also like to point out that many of the older rulers have very great difficulties in going the way of administration, and it has therefore seemed important to me that those who have already applied as West Prisoners for their pension insurance institutions should not have to withdraw their applications, but may leave them there in order to get the benefit of these symbolic payments as quickly as possible after the decision of this law is taken here in the House, also on the basis of the high age of the person concerned. I would ask that this should not be considered as a negative activity and as an advertising measure of the Federal Government, but as an actual measure in the interests of those concerned, so that they may have their documents collected in advance and as far as possible in order to ensure a timely settlement in order to ensure that this group of persons already concerned also experiences the payment of the benefits granted to it by this decision by the National Council. I should like to thank all those who see this as well as the Federal Government for their decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10661	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10682	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are all pleased that peace has existed on European soil for more than 55 years, and two generations know the ugly word of war only from narratives, from illustrations, from other countries or perhaps some even from historical books. But the victims of our parents were the basis for this development, so I would say here today, because this generation knew and knew very well what it means to take on a lot of hardships, hardships, war and also suffering. And they have done everything together – our fathers here, in France, in Spain, in Germany – that never again may this terrible war arise. But it took just as long – 55 years and more – until we succeeded in granting Austrian war participants a little recognition for this lost time. We have taken the first step in the 2001 Budgetary Support Act, which enabled us to decide on a prisoners of war compensation for prisoners in the Eastern countries. At that time, some speakers from the opposition – Mr Dietachmayr, but also others – complained here that this decision was too late that this decision was not comprehensive enough. – I can remind you, however, of the following: It was this federal government and only this federal government under Wolfgang Schüssel, which has taken serious action to solve this problem, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] No SPÖ chancellor has given the strength to address this issue accordingly. That too is the truth! – And this is the new social dimension of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are, however, one with many pensioners' associations, perhaps also with veteran associations, who do not really understand that a prisoner of war in the East is treated differently from a prisoner of war in the West. I spoke to my father – he was in Russia for four years at the front and was lucky to be so far back at the end of the war that he was captured by the English, where he had to spend another year of his young life in captivity. Those who have served for many years in the East, there as a soldier had to spend the time, really did not understand that they did not get this support. That is why we continue this path consistently and today extend the circle of claimants to all Austrian war participants. And I am pleased that today we can also offer these benefits to 50,000 prisoners of war caught in the West. However, I am not making any mention of the fact that I really regret that this decision cannot be taken unanimously and that the Greens do not agree to this proposal. Professor Bruckmann said that the Greens had no heart for older people, and I would like to support this today. Whether it's a blow or not, it's put up, but the older people know what this decision means today. Today he has not said it, I have been very careful, but in his discussion at the time, Mr. Ollinger said it was a war criminal compensation law. – I regret such findings and would like to read a quote to him briefly: How did the Austrians, with their conscience and their behavior as German soldiers, keep it? – I have never experienced in the seven evil years that Austrians were enthusiastic about their role, not even all NS party guests. – This is in a brochure of the Austrian resistance movement and is therefore totally unwarranted. I would ask you to hold back on these lump-sum judgments because they are really inappropriate. But this is your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. We are pleased that we are late in many of our fathers and grandfathers, but for many God, thank you not yet too late to grant this tribute and this little recognition.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10752	The next speaker was Mr Brugger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10773	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With this draft law in place today, we finally want to achieve justice for all prisoners of war when it comes to prisoners of war. It was one of the first demands of us liberals that those people who were imprisoned in the East and Central European states after the Second World War receive compensation for this. The service provided by humans has been used to reduce the reparation payments made by the Republic of Austria to the Soviet Union – a fact that the SPÖ has apparently not been interested in over the last 30 years. Today's decision shows that the government is providing justice for those who have rebuilt this country, our home country of Austria, after the war. In order to do justice enough, we now want to extend the prisoners of war compensation law. It is about the fact that detention by the Western Allies is not worse than that the Western prisoners should also have a claim, because these fathers and sons of Austria have also suffered, not only the prisoners in the Stalinist Gulags of Siberia. They were all suffering from a war story that can no longer be repeated. The compensation, which depends on the duration of the imprisonment, can certainly only be symbolic, namely, it is between 200 S and 500 S or between 14.5 € and 36 € per month. – The true suffering of the use of war and the humiliation of captivity cannot be reimbursed with any money from the world. A British statesman put it to the fore over 100 years ago, because he said: Delayed justice is denied justice. – It was William Gladstone, then Minister of Trade and Culture. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the fact that the Western Allies' detention is not worse off, that the West-inmates are also entitled to compensation. After 57 years, the whole generation of war is due to the recognition it has earned. We are thus contributing to that generation, which is not only exemplary in our country, but has also done a lot for the prosperity in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10812	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10834	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Austrian citizens who have been imprisoned for war during the Second World War receive support when it comes to Eastern European countries. This is the current legal situation. The respective amount of compensation is, as we know, staggered according to the length of its imprisonment. The compensation is not considered to be income and is therefore free of charge. That seems important to me, because many do not yet know. Ladies and gentlemen! The exclusion of the right to compensation for prisoners in the West naturally led to misunderstandings among those concerned, and this was also very clearly articulated. The Federal Ministry of Social Security and Generations argued that there was too little money for everyone. I quote from a letter dated 23. February 2001 to a person concerned: An extension of this regime to prisoners of war in the West would have been a much higher cost and could not be implemented for budgetary reasons. – This was the case last year by the Ministry of Social Affairs. But not only those concerned, but also the trade unions have become active. ==References====External links==* Official website In February 2001 it reads, among other things: It requires extension to all prisoners of war and tossed persons – whether they were countries in the East or in the West. On this occasion, I would also like to remind you that the Pensionist Association of my party, the Social Democratic Party, also insisted in June 2001 on extending the law within the meaning of today's proposal. ==References====External links== June: "SPÖ-pensionists demand compensation for all". Ladies and gentlemen! Now, with today's novel, this claim is extended to prisoners of war of the Western Allies. A fair demand from those concerned, supported by the trade unions and the Pensionist Association of my party, is being met today. That is why the SPÖ agrees with this proposal. One last comment, ladies and gentlemen, to my previous speaker, Mr Drinkl, who mentioned the new social dimension of this Federal Government in connection with this presentation: I also understand the term "new social dimension of the Federal Government" as follows: Pension adjustment 2002, accident pension tax, sick leave fee and much more. - That's just to live up to the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10880	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10901	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The change in the law now envisaged should now also finally – I emphasize: at last! – Prisoners of the Western Allies, civilian-internal persons arrested outside Austria, as well as those who have their usual residence abroad – at least 1,000 persons – receive a claim for compensation, as there is for war participants in Eastern Europe under the War Arrest Act. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this novel is now being created in this area of justice and that we are now also deciding on a war prisoners' compensation for the prisoners of the Western Allies. Not only are persons entitled to war, but also civilians who, during the occupation of Austria, were arrested by a foreign power for political or military reasons in the country or who were politically persecuted outside the territory of the Republic of Austria and held by a foreign power. Prison must have lasted at least three months. According to Ludwig-Boltzmann-Institute, this will affect around 52 000 people. Usually, these will receive a monthly compensation payment of 15 € or 200 S – which is the majority – up to 36 € or 500 S, depending on the duration of the imprisonment. This is not a lot, ladies and gentlemen, but finally and finally a little recognition for the sufferings of those who had to take part in a war which none of them wanted in their young years and who have been imprisoned and have rebuilt Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10943	Unfortunately, I now give the floor to Mr Haigermoser. It will be his farewell speech, after nearly two decades here in the National Council. – During his speech, I will be cautiously handed over to President Fassleven in order to give you your last call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e10970	High house! I will try not to catch this last call of order if I can say so and try to develop a few thoughts. I'm allowed to do this, almost as a "branch exercise" we've lived up to now. On this item on the agenda, I would like to say, among other things, that I am happy and happy that I can keep my last speech on this because it is a late symbolic punishment for suffering that this injured generation has suffered. At this point, I would like to thank Chancellor Dr. Schüssel for his commitment, which he recently made on his state visit to Russia, where he has agreed with Putin that the Stalin judgments are revised. Thank you very much, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] All the events, ladies and gentlemen, have of course an advance. It is a long march to come to such results. And if today I think of a few hundred speeches that I have been able to make in this House, I am allowed, Mr President, to take out the "artifical freedom" – under quotation marks – to add a few sentences to me and to all of us, not beckmesse, but also thoughtful. I also allow myself to wish every member of this House personal, health well-being. Politically, I have to limit these wishes. Politically, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish for this reform coalition of liberals and ÖVP well-being. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think that our country is too beautiful and too worth living to hand it over to a red-green coalition. The German example speaks volumes for itself, ladies and gentlemen. We no longer need unemployment and more debt, we do not need fewer companies and more bankruptcys – we need the start this federal government symbolizes, ladies and gentlemen! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Andreas Khol! Peter Westenthaler! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Raises the FPÖ-ÖVP coalition like a delicate plant and lets it grow into a stately tree! Austria has more than deserved this coalition. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: A dangerous threat!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the first speech in Parliament, at least I was a bit excited; I remember with horror. I had a very hard clubman: Friedrich Peter. On the occasion of the last, so-called farewell speech, a shot of melancholy with gratitude, especially to the citizen, to the voters, who allowed me to belong to this House for 18 years and 7 months. I have always considered it an honor to stand at this most sacred grove of the Republic, the speaker's desk, to be allowed to engage in the political debate: sometimes hard, even having to put a lot into it. What I have always done, in this place, in this most holy grove, I can also make a confession to parliamentary immunity, because this immunity is not a privilege, but this immunity is a civil right. It serves to protect the citizen, so that the honourable Member can devote himself to the citizen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This quality mark is even more advanced; I say it against the background that I have never had to use this immunity – thank God – in these 18 years and 7 months. Some of the calls for orders have probably replaced this. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Looking back is allowed, that's right. And I do not hide that friendships have been established, especially in foreign delegations, at the National Council of the National Council, especially in the case of foreign delegations, and they have always been known as a common partner, perhaps more than here. It has also succeeded in finding many interlocutors and co-operators across the borders of the political groups. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] I'm not going to try to draw a balance for myself here on this pult. That's what I'm gonna do in the silent room, also questioning me, it can only be broken. However, I may be allowed to record my most beautiful political event or experience or the greatest success, as you can see it, so that it can be read by my grandson later. I was a councillor in my home community. It was during the wedding, the high flower of Kreisky in the seventies, when we succeeded with our team, with my friends, to point the social democracy from second to third place. That was a beautiful event. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I would also like to continue to help where I am still a little active that we can continue to be active in my family. Thank you very much, dear friends. I would particularly like to stress two colleagues who have been allowed to sit next to me or to sit next to them for a long time: Helene Partik-Pablé – we were almost at the same time praised – and Harald Ofner, my fatherly friend, with whom I was allowed to share the office. [[Abg. Nuremberger: He's not that old either!]] Thank you very much for your companionship, which you have given me next to all the others! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear friends! Today I can also bow to two great figures of Austrian politics with respect and awe, which I was able to experience equally from the point of view of the opposition and from the point of view of the government group, namely Anton Benya, one of the largest parliamentarians of the Second Republic, and Alois Mock, two great Austrians. I am proud to have been together with these two Austrians in a parliament – in a few hours I must say –. [[We welcome the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to know one wish, ladies and gentlemen, that it can only be a wish, no more: Don't let shop opening make it easy to agree to a night opening! Don't listen to the siren songs of those who think that total freedom is all! I say freedom, but no to the dictatorship of the great, yes to entrepreneurship, but no to the death penalty for the family business. [[We welcome the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to quote Jean Baudrillard, a French philosopher who does not belong to our family, who was recently asked in a "spiegel" interview, what he says about globalisation. He says: "She pretends to free the people, while deregulating them. The abolition of all rules, more precisely: the reduction of all rules to the law of the market is the opposite of freedom – of course their illusion. As old-fashioned and aristocratic values as worms, honor, challenge, victims are no longer involved." – I mean, we should be on the side of honor and the challenge. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to get rid of one more tip. I have experienced many things: from the small coalition, from the social-democratic coalition, from the club rooms, from then on a bit of a terrible provincial member – in the meantime I have put a bit of fear – then in the opposition, in the successful liberal opposition, now in the revolving coalition that so motivates me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] 52 Members, a stately number, with twelve we started in the last row. The Greens came into the house, Meissner-Blue and so on, the so-called liberals as the fifth wheel on the car, a parliamentary operating accident and today only a marginal note in the eternal book of oblivion. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] Politics must be devoted to all necessary historical considerations of the present and future. Historically and day-politically, it cannot be estimated that this coalition from FPÖ and ÖVP is home to the prisoners of war to give our fathers a modest reparation. This wounded generation, often bled in an abominable war, owes our thanks and the recognition that it was they who brought this country, our Republic, with mere hands to new blossoms. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I also say: Shame those who still trample posthumously on the graves of those who often found death as half children! Look Once at a war memorial, you will see the birth dates of those who have died! I tell you, those who believe that they have invented justice with their well-being bells have been infringing on these poor devils. He throws the first stone. Never again war, dear friends, but also High House, means to build a Europe that does not build on the foundation of the raised finger, but sees the vision of the home country, of the fatherland as a link in the continent. Only the removal of injustice from all sides is a guarantee that a functioning and accepted construction site in Europe, to which I call myself, will be further developed. The Czech Republic should take an example of the Baltic countries, which are also trying to come to terms with their past, which is difficult enough. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Dear friends! We too have to work on making the solidarity really social. Many things are still positive. Single mothers, disabled people, older citizens have more than deserved our assistance. It is one of the highest awards for every citizen of this country to belong to this Parliament. Thank God there is no pragmatic mandate. I submit to this non-pragmatized mandate and look forward to additional actions if the Lord permits me to do so. I can close with Hermann Hesse, who has written so much in his "levels", which gives me hope again: "We want to walk through cheerful space around space, on no one like a home, the world spirit does not want to captivate us and narrowly, He wants to raise us step by step, widen out. Hard to Be Home to a Life Circle And whosoever inhabits, sleep threatens, but whosoever is ready to leave, and travels, and is able to escape from the habit of paralysis." Happiness in the Republic Austria! I'm proud to be an Austrian.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11129	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Haigermoser! I too would like to address a few words to you from the Presidency. A warm thanks for the commitment you have made in this House over the last two decades, for the expertise and also for the many refreshing contributions that have sometimes, as you yourself have said, been pointed out, which have still not prevented many Members, even beyond the party boundaries, from giving you their appreciation accordingly. We wish you all the best. [[It is a pleasure for the liberals and the ÖVP, as well as for representatives of the SPÖ.]] The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11159	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw attention to the words of Helmut Haigermoser and, as representatives of the younger generation, to the fact that I am very pleased that we have today taken this decision on the compensation for the prisoners of war, including the Western Allies. This is not only right, but also a gesture of humanity. I am glad that there is now a four-party agreement to extend to the prisoners of the First World War. Andreas Khol will submit the application. That's good. This cannot be underlined often enough, and this is also a gesture that is probably seen and heard far beyond the borders of Austria throughout Europe. And this is good for the country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But I cannot, of course, make it clear to my long-standing companion, our dear colleague, friend, great parliamentarian Helmut Haigermoser, to repeat a few words. This is a need for me. Helmut Haigermoser – many will not know this at all – now belongs to this House for 18 years and 7 months. He has been active in politics for over 35 years and today has his 345. Speaking, which is quite remarkable. He was an interim clubman, he was Klubobmann's deputy, and he was above all an all-rounder here in the house. He – and this is recognized by looking at his speeches a biterl – worked across all areas, in environmental, family policy, the Court of Auditors, housing, the economy was his heart's concern. And he was, above all, the team captain in difficult situations – and I allow him to say this again in person here again – not only here in Parliament, but also especially when it came to ensuring unity in the club and being a friend of the club. I noticed Helmut Haigermoser for the first time from a completely different point of view, namely from the bird perspective. I've never told you this story, she's right. It was in April of 1984 when Helmut Haigermoser hier gave a speech and underlined his social commitment. I was sitting somewhere else, in second place, right up there, because I was here in the House with my school, which I belonged to as a student, and I was listening to a parliament meeting. Helmut Haigermoseran's speech desk took place. I now have this speech from 11. In April 1984 it was brought back again. You've been very committed and shaped a sentence that I want to quote, because in the pre-debate, the word "greed mentality" was mentioned. It was also about privileges. Helmut Haigermoser then said: The negative use of the word "Greißler" has to be kept in the House, not because I myself am a rapist, but as a substitute for the many thousands of hard-working people who work in this profession of theirs. And that's what already moved me back then and I already liked it: You have not only demonstrated your social commitment, but you have proved that you are not only Greißler, but also honest agents of the opinion of the population. Therefore, as a Member of Parliament, you should actually receive the highest award that the people can give you, namely that you can say with a calm conscience: You are one of us, one of the people, especially one who, despite his economic commitment, has always represented the smaller ones and the weaker ones. And I would like to thank you very much for this, because it is not often enough for you to say that, and not often enough, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The parliamentarian – I said it: after 18 years and 7 months and 345 speeches, one is not just a state-of-the-art, but a great parliamentarian – Helmut Haigermoser goes today. The friend remains and remains to all of us – and I would like to address this very personally to our group. Helmut Haigermoserhat in his past, he said it – he experienced everything, the many coalitions, the most diverse political constellations. And he has lived through this enemy-friend-klique in politics again and again – I know it personally – and has often felt in his own body. He lived through that, but he survived. He has had real enemies and wrong friends, but he has always been a good friend to this day, especially here in the group, for everyone, and he was one of my best friends here in the High House, and you will continue to do so if you take your new professional course. But at this point I should also be allowed to point out that politics is also emotion and politics also needs feelings and that every politician, no matter what party he is in, no matter what function he is in, also needs friends and that it is also important that you stand at these friends in difficult times. Helmut Haigermoser has embodied this. He has always been his friends in difficult times. That is why, at the end of the day, I took out a quote that I would like to give you, as thanks, also for your loyalty. ==References====External links== from Bavaria and is as follows: "If someone speaks badly of a friend, and he still seems so honest, don't believe him! Speak badly of your friends, distrust the world, and give right to your friends! Only those who so steadfastly love his friends are worthy of giving him friends in heaven." Dear Helmut! Dear friend! I wish you all the best, private happiness, all the joy you can only wish for your professional future. Helmut Haigermoser is and remains a friend. I thank you for being here in the high house for so long as you were a companion and also a good consultant. Good luck! All love! We will, of course, continue to see each other in the future, continue to chat with each other. Call me, come over! Thank you for your work here in the House!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11272	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Allow me to add that this is a late satisfaction to the grandson of a Tyrolean Imperial Protector. He was in prison for war, but, unfortunately, he doesn't live anymore. The application is made. He's a three-party application. I thank my colleague Dietachmayr. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me also say something to Mr Haigermoser. We arrived here the same year, 1983. The leaves fall, fall as from far. He's excruciating. I'll stay inside. [[Abg. Gaál: Still!]] Dear Helmut Haigermoser! We often crossed the blades. I had to apologise to you. I'd like to record that. You were held behind the glass door by your colleagues outside because you wanted to fall on me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But that didn't change the fact that we were immediately and then immediately the old ones again. You're a man who made politics with heart and brain. You have also changed your profession – I remember: from the Greißler to the Confessionary – you are a chamber functionary and passionate follower of a non-socialist policy. It should be a late satisfaction that you have achieved one of the goals. I'm glad you apostrophized Peter Westenthaler and me. My group wishes you all the best for your further life course. You are proof that something can be changed even in young years and that when you get older you are still innovative. Here in the house you really made big contributions. You are a great parliamentarian of this Republic. The Republic is obliged to thank you. Thank you on behalf of our government, our new majority. Hopefully we will continue to reform the Republic for many years to your delight here.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11363	The amendment tabled by my colleague, Dr. Khol, is sufficiently supported and is in sufficient context and therefore also part of the debate or vote. In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed immediately to the vote on the draft law in 944 of the Supplements. To this end, Members Dr. Ofner, Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr and colleagues have tabled an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The amendment tabled by Dr. Ofner, Dr. Feurstein, Dietachmayr, Members of Parliament provides for a recast of Section 1(1). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall therefore vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a sign in this regard. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues and colleagues, on the adjustment of the exemption provided for in the Income Tax Act for holders of official certificates and certificates of victims under the Victim Care Act 1947. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 3rd. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the General Social Insurance Act and the Victims' Care Act (986 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11447	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. We are going directly into the debate. First of all, Mrs Silhavy is speaking. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11474	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning of this item on the agenda, I would like to thank President Heinz Fischer for having done so in numerous preliminary discussions, that we are going to decide on a four-party request today, a request that will allow us to resolve a problem of compensation legislation relatively soon, from 1st century onwards. March. ==References== In the future, those people who had to leave Austria because of persecution by the National Socialist regime will also have a right to care allowance of levels 1 to 7. The same applies to the preferential purchase of retirement periods for persons not later than 12 years old. ==References====External links== This proposal makes it possible, without awaiting the entry of the legal peace, to grant the benefits to the victims of the National Socialist regime who are already partially highly regarded. I do not see Mr Feurstein right now, but I would like to stress here again: We have remained guilty of certain victims of the Nazi persecution, namely those people who were persecuted for their homosexuality. There are also appropriate proposals here in the House, including a request from the Socialist Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). This issue is not new, and I hope that someone will be able to do that to Mr Feurstein. ==References== In May 1995, he was quoted as saying in the Salzburger Nachrichten that one had rejected a request from the Greens only because the formulation "sexual orientation" would have meant that emergency criminals would also have benefited from a pension according to the victim care law. I assume that Mr Feurstein is now ready to withdraw this statement with the sign of regret. I also refer to today's issue of the Catholic family work, in which it is emphasized and expressly stated, "that homosexual orientation is not perversion, sin or disease, but an accusation". It is assumed that "the dignity of the person is independent of sexual orientation". Mr Feurstein, my appeal to you and the members of ÖVP and FPÖ: Put a sign of respect for human dignity, and no longer deny the homosexual victims of the Nazi regime their right! This would allow us to take another step towards justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11519	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11541	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Whoever is to be thanked, at least he is due to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, so much so that at the beginning of the activity of this Federal Government, he is clearly familiar with principles which he consistently implements in this government, for example, according to the saying: "Take the world as it is, but don't leave it like that!" He raised his objective in the Government Declaration, where it refers to the topic of "strong democracy": The Federal Government is committed to continuing the course of sensitivity and critical discussion with the Nazi past in the form of a warning message as well as in the form of a dissolving postulate. In the meantime, there are a number of events that we can also present today, as I mean. I would like to thank not only Chancellor Dr. Schüssel, but also President Dr. Schaumayer, who has done a great deal in the process of processing all these difficult materials. There are a number of agreements, of framework contracts, which have been concluded, where a large number of persons are integrated with respect to compensation through the reconciliation fund. In addition, there are also restitutions, which are also honoured by all sides and which, in the international assessment, make Austria appear to be positive. There are, of course, still a number of additional things which are not yet in force, such as the care allowance of all levels abroad in general, instead of only stage 2, the extension of the preferential repurchasing of retirement periods, the case of the six-year limit in the forced emigration or the entitlement to victims, if they so far, because of the lack of Austrian citizenship on 27 May. ==References====External links== We are particularly concerned that, of course, we also expect legal peace as a condition and its entry into force. It is a question of ensuring that America has no longer allowed complaints to be filed on the individual categories of compensation and that it rejects all relevant claims. There is already a result for the Reconciliation Fund and the National Fund. Up to now, the entry into force of the additional social benefits has actually depended on legal peace. Now there have always been delays. High house! Today we are voting on the early entry into force of these additional social benefits already decided on for the victims. We have freely decided to do so because we do not want to allow these people to continue waiting and thus become victims again in the outcome. That's why we're glad we can do this today.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11592	The next speaker is Mrs Haller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11613	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In today's issue of the "Tyrol daily", page 2, internal politics, Landeshuptmann Weingartner, who belongs to the party of our coalition partner, refers to the Beneš decree and demands "the reworking of history". Unforgivable story was 'always a playground for populists', he said." And we are dealing with this so far unfinished story in Agenda items 2 and 3, which we are dealing with today. After I was present in the Committee yesterday, I had certain concerns that today's debate could also move in the area of populism, because I did not understand that the Greens did not agree yesterday to the amendment of the prisoners of war compensation law in 944 of the Supplements. It's clear: The SPÖ and the Greens in particular have repeatedly called for past treatment, but nothing has happened in Austria for almost 60 years. It was this government and only this government that is now starting to work things up. It was this government that finally created a prisoner-of-war compensation law last year, which has now launched or brought into force a revision of this law, which should also favour the prisoners of war of the Western Allies and also persons who have their normal residence abroad. And now these benefits are extended one step further, namely in the field of ASVG and victim care. Yesterday in the Committee, as an argument for the Greens, I did not agree with the objection that it would be possible to favour perpetrators and not just victims. That is why I fear that today's debate might have gone in a wrong direction. I am very glad that all four parliamentary parties are now committed to the present legislative amendments. Mr Dietachmayr, please write to your address: They have today referred to the adoption of these laws as the success of the opposition. Mr Dietachmayr! Have you really forgotten that the SPÖ has been in the government for 30 years, in which nothing really happened? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietachmayr.]] I think you should take a little back in this argument and welcome these changes, welcome them with a full heart – this is also due to Mr Silhavy – and be grateful for the fact that there is a late retirement here at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11665	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11686	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I was a little confused now, because Mrs Haller has now given her the speech that she actually took on the War Arrest Law. However, we are already at the next item on the agenda, and this is dealing with the amendment of the so-called compensation fund law - that is being innovation. [[Abg. Haller: It's hard for you to scratch the curve, gel, Mrs. Stoisits?]] [[Abg. Haller: You would not have scratched the curve soon!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Last year in January, quite precisely around this time, has truly been dealt with an essential chapter in the work of Austrian history. One of the main words used on the occasion of this debate by the government groups was the word "stretch". The final point that we want to draw has been made very often in this context. The final point to be drawn at the time has resulted in nothing having happened for a year in relation to the so-called social package in the compensation fund. The representative of the Claims Conference Austria recently expressed it in an event in such a way that he said that we, the victim representatives – he represented this organization during the negotiations in Washington at that time – were naïve – and that was very noble and friendly – naïve in relation to the promises and also promises made. I have expressed the opinion that it was not naïve, which marked the victim representatives, but that they have in a certain way been cleaned up a little – in spirit, not in the direct sense – which their hope that these compensation payments will come. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I am really glad that all the parties of the House have come to realize that it truly does not serve to rework history, that it is truly not in the sense of a commitment to history, if people who, on the basis of the situation in which they are located, have the right to care money, have already granted this care money – a year ago – but have not paid it. In the meantime, many people who have been entitled to such a care allowance – I don't know how many, but there are a lot of people, because this is always about highly elderly people – have already died without enjoying this achievement. What we are doing here is not an act of grace or an act of special generosity, but what we are doing here today with this law decision is, in my view, the only way to live up to the law decision of last year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Any other performance would contradict the spirit of the negotiations on compensation funds held in Washington. That's it, and not anymore! No one now places the light of anyone involved under the sailor or emphasizes his role very much, but one can say: Madam President Schaumayer was not involved in the negotiations on the compensation fund, but she has done a great deal of work in connection with the compensation of former forced workers, for which she is very grateful. But the matter we are now discussing has nothing to do with it, Mr Donabauer. – However, even a high social security officer cannot know everything. But if you talk about it, you should have at least some idea, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: On your teaching we can...!]] Last: Like Parliament... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But you know everything!]] No, I don't know everything. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Well, of course!]] I know a lot about what I'm talking about, because I don't talk about what I know about! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But this does not apply to all the Members of this House. They sometimes get notes in their hands and then talk about something, and it doesn't fit back and front together. [[Abg. Dr. Khol:... this is a news!]] Ladies and gentlemen. My last point: In connection with the compensation fund, resolutions have also been submitted to the National Council last year, in this case by the Green Group. These motions for resolutions concern the fact that it was precisely the industrially organized mass murder of people of Jewish faith during the Nazi period, which led to the fact that the Jewish community in Austria was bleeding out in the truest sense of the word and is in this situation today, the rest of the Jewish community must be given financial support from then – and also from immigration – so that the problems of the Cultus community can be overcome. In this respect, the Greens have submitted two requests, one to the Financial Committee and one to the Committee on Internal Affairs, one on financial support and one on the subject of the possibility of additional immigration. These applications have not been dealt with in the National Council for one year. I very much have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the end line of last year was spoken of, at least in the minds of the highest officials of the National Council – that is, of club members of the House – is obvious. If so, Mr Klubobmann Khol – for you are sitting there while Klubobmann Westenthaler is not here – then I would ask you to reconsider. [[Abg. Auer: The van der Bellen is not here either!]] There can be no such thing as this end! This chapter of Austrian history is never to be closed, because what has happened to people at the time can only be remembered with what is expressed in the statement "Never forget" and it must be remembered! It is up to our generation today that this "Never forget" will actually continue to exist. That is why, Mr Klubobmann, I would like to ask you to consult the High Committee on these requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11833	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11855	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr Minister – wherever he may be! We are now dealing with the Victim Care Act and the ASVG. We are thus taking a symbolic act, which represents a further step on the way to reworking our past. I would like to do a little in this context, which many people have suffered in the National Socialist era: They were humiliated, tortured, dispossessed, expropriated. It was taken away from them all their property and property and "arranged" and they had to emigrate – when they did it and did not perish in a concentration camp or have been deported or otherwise died. These steps have taken place under Chancellor Vrannitzky to reorganize the past, reaching up to the President of the National Council Dr Heinz Fischer, who on a trip to Israel many people have referred to the fact that social benefits such as the care allowance for these victims should also be installed. It is today a small step of justice for people who have suffered very, very much injustice in their lives and have had to experience in the past – to an extent that we can no longer imagine in my generation. But like my previous speaker, Mrs Mag. Stoisits, has done, it is up to us never to forget and to keep in mind the story again and again, so that such experiences can never happen again in this world. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] If we are accused by the government groups that we would not have done anything in our times of government, then I can only give you the names of Vranitzky to Fischer, then I can only hold you against all the commemorative events, the discussion events, the social measures. It is, of course, true that in your government's work, you've been so to say you've been put on the side and have to stress again and again how successful you are – somehow that reminds me of a Tibetan prayer mill – in order to give yourself the success and courage you need. Because of your government work, this is very difficult in some respects. In the matter we are now discussing, it is very important for me and for my group that the right to care benefits should already be granted with 1. March this year can be accepted, and it is also very important to decouple from legal certainty, so that precisely those people whom I spoke of earlier have to endure the great humiliations, great pains and great pains, a small amount of espionage and a little symbolic support. In conclusion, however, I would also like to point out that the valorization of the care allowance is also very important, not only for those people who are being discussed here today, but for many Austrians in our country, for all care workers. Get active there, and don't just leave it with symbolic word messages!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11912	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11933	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In order to help Mrs Haller with her memory of the jumps, I would like to point out here that this four-party request was made solely on the initiative of our National Council President Heinz Fischer, while Social Democrats and Greens were immediately in favour of it, while the reflection of the two club members Khol and Westenthal took more time – up to a year, as Mr Stoisits has already done. However, we all saw yesterday in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that urgent action was needed, and the club members Khol and Westenthal also recognized the humanitarian aspect. Just as it was now National Council President Fischer, it was in 1995 our Federal Chancellor Franz Vrannitzky, who set up the NS sacrifice fund. In connection with the chronology of reparation, I recall that a historian's commission was set up by the then Federal Government in 1998 to examine the reparation of the Republic of Austria since 1945. The current Federal Government has continued this reparation with the reconciliation fund, which was decided by all four parliamentary groups in July 2000 – not re-established, but continued! This is a series of measures launched by the former Federal Government. And there was a reparation package between Austria, the USA and victim organizations whose point 3 – which is being dealt with right now – is the social package for Holocaust survivors, namely the right to increased care and the possibility of repurchasing pension months. A special problem - mentioned by previous speakers - has been the link between the payment of an increased care allowance for the victims of National Socialism and legal certainty, the peace of law, which can only be granted when further compensation is no longer expected. That is, only when the two pending actions against Austria are rejected can the overall package be seized. It is all the more gratifying, of course – I repeat it, because this is really a great thing – that the suggestion put forward by the President of the National Council for Fischer has now been received and that we can now prefer these social benefits and decouple them from the overall package. It is estimated that there are 13,000 people living abroad who are living abroad, who, as has been said, from 1st century onwards. In March, care allowances from Stages 1 to 7 can be received, i.e. have an increased care allowance. The four-party proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is very important to me as a youth politician. It is also a contribution to youth. It is necessary to work out exactly the time of National Socialism in school, in history teaching, but also in projects. It is equally important that the younger generation recognizes the so-called chronology of reparation in its historical dimension, with which we cannot always be satisfied. That's also part of it. When Mr. Jugendminister was the main minister – which he is now – not yet a minister, he called for this moral conclusion in the discussion on the Reconciliation Fund Act. It was not just him, there were many members of the current government groups who demanded this conclusion. As a youth politician, I say that there must be neither a moral nor a material conclusion. [[Abg. Young: And what about the Beneš decrees?]] That is what we boys owe to the victims, Mr. Col.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e11971	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are therefore voting on the draft law and its title and receipt in 986 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Without cast builder, without cap! You have to remember that once!]] [[Call at the SPÖ – towards the Abg. Dr. Khol –: Main thing, you're here]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is also to be noted in the Minutes!]] [[Call:This is embarrassing]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have to explain that!]] – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 4. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment No 578/A by Dr Alois Pumberger, Dr Erwin Rasinger, colleagues concerning a Federal Law on the Establishment of a Fund for the Financing of Private Hospitals (PrikRAF-G) 5. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the European Democratic Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the German law on addictions, psychotropic substances and precursors (SMG) (981 of the supplements) 6. Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution 441/A (E) by Mr Manfred Lackner, colleagues, on compensation for the hepatitis C victims of plasma pheresis companies (982 of the supplements) 7. Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution 443/A (E) by Mrs Manfred Lackner, ladies and gentlemen, on legislation on improved quality assurance in the use of blood and blood products (983 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12093	We now come to points 4 to 7 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate immediately. First of all, Mr Lacner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12120	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Today, when we talk about the Private Hospital Funding Funding Act, one thing is clear: This law now sets out an attempt to implement private health care as being practically public, thus weakening public health care. With this law, they allow insurance contributions from the public sector to flow into the private sector with its extensive scope of activity, thus legitimizing entry into the two-class medicine, ladies and gentlemen. This spiritual background draws like a blue-black thread through this law, but not only through this law, but also through all other areas of your health policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Mr Pumberger! You will be able to answer it anyway – if you succeed in what I do not believe anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Was only a question!]] At least it may be said critically, Mr Pumberger, that the legislative text lacks any indication that the same quality standards apply to private hospitals as in the public sector. The different structural conditions between public hospitals and private hospitals should also be mentioned at least, because this is an important point in terms of financing, because it should also be clear to you, Dr. Pumberger, that these different structural quality criteria of course also require different cost levels and also different levels of quality of supply. I pointed out in committee that we wanted a subcommittee where we wanted to know all these problems through. Unfortunately, this has been rejected by your majority, and therefore it has not been possible for us to agree to this bill. It is also interesting to compare Mr Pumberger, the first draft with the legislative text that is now available here. If you still have fund institutions in the first draft, then the text of the law, which is available for decision today, no longer contains these fund institutions. They were simply and decisively eliminated and replaced by a regulatory authority for the Minister of Social Affairs. That shows once again, my Ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, how seriously you take it with the creation of democratic structures. The word "transparent" seems to be a foreign word to you, otherwise you would not have eliminated these important organs. Something else – and that is not quite insignificant, Mr Pumberger: In the first draft, you also wanted to use the social and state aid laws in a completely outrageous manner. You have now eliminated that in this draft, but this also shows how you wanted to conduct skillful client policy. I have, of course, also referred to other inconsistencies in this law in the Committee. The performance of all these points would break the framework of today's debate. This law is a "worthy" continuation of a series of Husch-Puff laws that this government has designed. It is therefore not a secret that, as has been said, we cannot give our consent to this law. Ladies and gentlemen! But not only here, but also otherwise, it is clear that you have simply failed in health policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the liberals.]] There's no way to help those cheers from the 11th century. January 2002, in which the Secretary of State announced a "success report" after two years of FP health policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: It can be seen!]] That's what you got on the 11th. January made in two broadcasts. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's positive!]] This "success balance", ladies and gentlemen, is at best one of those inappropriate attempts to get over your failure, but not anymore. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] These jubilation reports are not done to make my heart beat faster, because as an incarcerated health politician, sometimes it hurts me when I see what you are doing here in this area, how you deliberately enter into structures and beat them – keyword: [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: For example?]] Two-Class Medicine, Mr Pumberger, if you do not know – because the reality of this "success balance" looks a little different, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Witchlands.]] Mrs Wandsländer, I have already explained to you in the Committee that this type of legislation, which you make decent, has to be corrected again and again by the highest courts and so on, because you are obviously unable to listen to our objections. [[Abg. Weekly countries: Better corrections than did nothing at all!]] . Mrs. Wachsländer, I cannot support you for not responding to our good proposals. Many of our proposals are praised! [[Abg. Weekly countries:... tell us what's good about that!]] It's okay if you say something. But your recipes, as I said, in the field of health policy point to that. Look It is only in the field of health insurance: By your special legislation, you have reached that you weaken social health insurance by 5 billion schilling in the medium term. [[Abg. Witchlands: That's a joke! You can't say that!]] Or: If you talk about it, Mrs. Wachsländer, that you want to guarantee access to the health system in the long term also to the socially weak, this is in stark contradiction with the "services" – under quotation marks – that you have provided in this area so far: up to 1 000 S ambulance fee, increase your self retention in the hospital, increase the recipe fee, remove non-contributory co-insurance, delete health fixation measures. [[Abg. Weekly countries: To get a health system! Because you've turned it down like that! Because you handed it over like that!]] This list could, of course, be further carried out, but that would also break the framework of today's discussion. For such a policy, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition, we are not, because it is simply unolidarian and unsocial! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald]] For this policy, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Pumberger, you stand, and I believe that the people will appreciate this – because Mr Haigermoser has also mentioned the issue of elections – and will present the corresponding account to you. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12283	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12304	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Member, the speech you just delivered, I would, if I were a school speaker, enter under "thematically missing – not enough" because you didn't talk about the content of the law at all, but you desperately tried to speak to the two-class medicine somewhere, you tried to support a kind of election speech with ideology! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Who doesn't exist!]] I would recommend that you use the memory a little. [[Abg. May. Worm: Calculated!]] Two years ago we had a campaign, and in the middle of the campaign, your top candidate, then Chancellor's climate, which is now in Argentina, became ill at midnight. He had heart attack symptoms when I interpreted the newspapers correctly. – Where did your chancellor climate go then? [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: In the private clinic!]] – I ask you: Where? – To the "evil" private hospitals or to the public hospital? – No, he went to the Vienna private clinic at the time! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: And we should promote this now, right?]] And if I were to draw the relevant conclusions from your speech today, I would have to say that he must have been in the highest risk of life, because from your point of view, the quality there is not at all given. So let's leave the church in the village! As there, in private as well as in public hospitals, excellent doctors are at work. [[Assured by Dr. Pumberger and Miedl.]] As far as your opinion is concerned that public health care is deliberately being weakened, you are abandoning this from 40 years of SPÖ health policy! The SPÖ has not hindered private hospitals in Austria! It is due to you today that you are practically going to a stylistic break and say you have a new class enemy, and this class enemy is the two-class medicine in the private hospital. But there is still the patient who has to pay this "evil" private insurance, and he is not forced to do so! I'll tell you: It is actually an impressive "population" – more than with Temelin! – that is, in that two million Austrians afford this luxury you call a two-class medicine! These are more people than the ÖGB counts of members – you have to tell the patient out there! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And why do they afford that? - Because they claim their right and say: I want the doctor of my trust. That's nothing bad. As Dr. Rasinger, I myself do not have a private health insurance – just so you know – contrary to climate. In your eyes, I'm a poor dog when I get sick. I'm just saying – you forgot to say that – that the care in Austria is so good that it is actually a free right for the patient that he uses. But I believe that public care – you have forgotten – is so good that we can be proud that it is there for everyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Actually, it's an insult if you say it's a two-class medicine. It's the patient's right, that's all. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Painter is speechless!]] But the Austrian hospital landscape is good enough and does not need any instruction here. In principle, it is to be said: 16 billion schillings are being applied. Even in the hospital where you work, today top medicine – the men’s primary medicine – is not affordable because the public salaries are very low. There is now an incentive for the doctors, but also for the hospitals to get better. What you're ordering is socialist equalizing, which wouldn't even have taken your former minister seriously. Minister Hostasch had already reached an agreement in 1996, and today, essentially, it is only changed from the system to the LKF system. But you could not resist the temptation to break an ideology debate from the fence today among colleagues who do not know exactly that this is actually just a change of a dayset system to the LKF system. Please, leave the church in the village! Take care of the care of the poor people who care for you, perhaps in Upper Austria, where doctors cancel the cash contract, where they are disabled by your health insurance, when they prescribe expensive cancer paths, or where above-Austrian trade unionists write that doctors are disabled when they lead medical transports. There you could talk about the level and spread over "arms-people-medicine"! I don't think we need equality in the health system. We also do not need to prescribe bitter pills at a low level. The satisfaction of the Austrian patients shows me how important a minimal touch of competition in Austrian healthcare is. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12416	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12458	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It's a pleasure for me, my dear Erwin, to speak now after a lead no student. If you're already saying "students": You say that 2 million Austrians are privately insured. In my knowledge, the number of private insured persons in the population is between 15 and 20 percent. [[Abg. Weekly countries: That's not true! 1,040,000!]] You probably can't become a school speaker with these bills. I would also like to know what a "krebspflaster" is. This expression is new to me and to myself, you probably meant something else. Let's get to the point! – There were four items on the agenda in the Health Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Five! One has been withdrawn!]] One of these was Mr Maier's request for a comprehensive annual drug report documentation. This request was rejected. I wonder what ideological blending can cause one to reject the not ideal data situation in Austria in the drugs sector – in prevention, aftercare, risk group definition and also in the fight against organised crime – by saying: [[Abg. WATERLANDS: Awareness of Responsibility!]] More data, better data we don't want! For the first time, politics would offer an opportunity to take action, rather than irrationality and emotionality, on the basis of hard facts. I believe that this would not be bad for us – health policy and all politicians. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Well, you can say you'll take it. But "and accept" is given a double-bought meaning – especially in the pre-silver "to-", which is not compatible with health policy. Secondly, the compensation of hepatitis C victims was a debate and agenda item. Most of the people in this House know that this debate has been going on for about ten years. Most infections occurred in the late 1960s until the 1980s. Although this hepatitis C virus has been known since 1987 and was published in 1989, a blood product safety law was not passed in Parliament until ten years later. This has not exactly affected the risk of the population groups affected. When you trace who was spared there, you see, the risk of the blood and plasma donors was absolutely lacking at that time. These institutions were found to have poor hygiene conditions, and there have still been unexplained, questionable commercial rights. What have companies done to defend the flood of action? – They have established subsidiaries in order to be no longer the goal of the action. That's what the Republic has to take the poor sick! If you know that 40 percent of all liver cirrhosis, 60 percent of liver cancer, and 30 percent of all liver transplants are due not only to the so-called artificial defects, but to hepatitis C virus infections, and that these groups, starting from liver cirrhosis to carcinoma, are responsible for high mortality, i.e. mortality rate, already means that there is a need for action. There has been a small conflict in the media: Green Forest says this, Waneck says that. The fact is: I acknowledge that Waneck and Haupt have tried to create this fund. I recognise that they have tried – as was the foundation and intention of the Fund – to also take countries as well as responsible industries and companies into their responsibility. But although this effort is recognized by me, I cannot recognize beautifications. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It's said countries agreed. The Steiermarks were named and others isolated. But we have nine federal states, not two or three. Companies have said benevolently: If the countries pay something, we do! - But not all companies! The fact is – and you will not contradict – that this fund has been advanceed by the state with 15 million schillings, without a single cent, a single euro, a single schilling of countries or companies in there so far! Na bravo, I don't need to fight around in the media for long, what's good! Let us not forget the following: Infected were not only the well - meaning donors who donated for the benefit of other blood and plasma, but also the recipients. This is no longer discussed at all, they have been referred to the Civil Code. The indebtedness of medical liability, which could offer an opportunity in this respect, is still on a very long track. Let us come to another point, the electronic recording of donors and recipients of blood products. That too is a good request, and he has been rejected. Although Waneck has a pilot study in mind, which I believe is reasonable, there would have been no reason to reject this request. But now to the private hospitals. I have to tell you that you would make it extremely easy if you thought that I – or whoever – would apply fundamental, irrational, perhaps obsolete, primitive critique of capitalism. So it is not, of course, private insurers and private hospitals have their right of existence. But I tell you, when I see who all of these 48 listed ones are, I wonder in individual cases – and you have to look at them too –: How do they get the title "Private Hospital"? There are private coordinations that have beds. There is something to be noticed: These can't hold a specialist care around the clock, they can't hold a deviceive, medical-chemical laboratory diagnostic around the clock. They find out those patients who are paying, who have low-risk, but have random disease patterns, and in case of any complications – it is also honorable to recognize this – to be referred to the centres that are public-law for after-treatment. These then have to deal with the expensive complications, they continue to slumber into the deficit, and the "Rosins" remain in an area that must already work profitably on and for itself. Otherwise these 48 would not be totalable. Patients are very often treated well there. But you have to divide the risk fairly into a discussion, only then is it a competition. In other words, these hospitals would also have to offer a round-the-clock supply guarantee. But they don't. They don't have a recording obligation, they can choose their clients. If one is prepared to discuss the framework within which these hospitals should work and their quality criteria with us, I would have no problem saying yes to that. But that is the basic condition for a fair discussion. I could offer you a number of good arguments, but my speaking time is slow. What has not been discussed, however, as of the day after tomorrow, I would like to mention now, and I would like to ask you to perhaps give this subject a word in the media. The government, especially Riess-Passer and Grasser, Gehrer, I would like to take out something here – I am just saying something – that it has failed to enter into business agreements with the University Clinics on the Health Organization Labour Act. They have strongly disregarded it and arrogantly, although they knew that the operating agreements in force expire at the end of December 2001. Until then, nothing has happened, since then, every negotiation has been frustrated and unsuccessful – despite massive concessions from the health care staff, from doctors who have voluntarily been willing to extend it in order to guarantee the supply to the clinics. I called AKH Vienna half an hour ago. This is not a panic, but facts have been presented: At all AKH Vienna's dialysis stations – similar to those in Graz and Innsbruck – all intensive care stations are equipped with 1st. The legal regime in force in February is to maintain medical care in these areas according to the state of science and to maintain only four days around the clock. Then people have to be sent home. If this isn't a word worth saying if the government doesn't move in here... – That has something to do with Pittermann on the verge, and I suppose she'll say something. [[Abg. Countries of the week: Pittermann!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: That's where you need Pittermann...!]] But you know... [[Abg. Weekly countries: The legislation is federal matter, but the execution of state matter!]] Please, Mrs. Pittermann is not the vice chancellor! She is not the Minister of Education and Science, nor is she the Deputy to Waneck and the Head. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I would urge you to do something here. It is not a privilege to defend doctors there, but it merely defends the existing law on health and safety at work, which seems to be not worth discussing and complying with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12586	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12608	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! 15 percent of the Austrian population have an additional insurance, Mr. Grünewald, which is 1 040 000. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Rasinger said "2 million"!]] No one in Austria is questioning that these people can voluntarily complete this insurance and thus have the better "hotel component". [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No problem!]] They pay for it, they finance it, and there is no difference in the medical performance. Therefore, private hospitals and so-called class departments in public hospitals are an undisputed matter. Every patient who is not insured in addition also benefits from these facilities because they also contribute to the financing of hospitals under the rule. That is why I am not talking about the two-class medicine of my colleague, Mr Lacner. This has been the same in 30 years under SPÖ health policy, and it will hopefully continue to exist in 30 years. Now it is about financing private hospitals. The patients who have a social health insurance – and these are almost all Austrians – are also entitled to their insurance taking on a certain proportion of the costs in the private hospital. For this purpose, the private hospitals commit themselves to billing for performance. That's the new one now. For this they are provided with this fund, currently worth €72 million or €1 billion of schilling. This fund pays for the costs to be incurred by the main association of social security funds, which is a very simple matter. For this purpose, it is guaranteed that the use of resources in these private hospitals will be optimised and that quality can be maintained in the private hospitals. And what's especially important is: Due to the performance-oriented calculation now also carried out in the private hospitals, transparency of the provision of services is finally possible. All these are just positive things. I am therefore pleased that we are deciding on this fund today and that it has a certain amount to do with the main association. I am also pleased that our health system, after two years of policy of this joint reform government between FPÖ and ÖVP, has led to the fact that, in Austria, health policy is not being reduced, as the SPÖ and sometimes also the Greens or the trade union have prophesied: that we want to reduce everything health, that we want to save and that the patients can afford nothing more, that the health care will collapse, that the settled doctor will be self-retaining for cross pain over 5,000 s and similar horror reports that no one can afford a hip operation anymore, because he has to pay 30 000 or 40 000 S of self-costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] All of this has not happened, Mrs Colleague – quite the contrary! We have an excellent health system in Austria. [[Abg. Huber: Still!]] We are in sixth place in the world, the sixth best country in the world, which is the health care. [[Abg. Huber: You want to change that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Austria is there, despite or just for two years, health policy of FPÖ and ÖVP, to which you can congratulate us, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! That's an excellent performance, and we've done it all! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Yeah, well, that deserves an intermediate applause. We did all of this – without increases in contributions, ladies and gentlemen! Without any contribution increases – you have always had only this one recipe: The money goes out, we increase the contributions, people are supposed to pay more, and we are back to the reforms that are coming! [[Abg. Sophie Bauer:... just delete!]] We have not introduced any additional restraints to the established doctor, and we have no need to reduce performance. We have the same medical care. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! There were forecasts that if the 30-year health debt policy had been continued by the SPÖ, we would have had a 12 billion schilling in health insurance for the year 2001. The fact is that we have now reached under 1 billion schilling in the health insurance sector – under one billion schilling, under 70 million €! We also expect the zero deficit for the health insurance companies in 2002. You never did. They are only jealous, because without a reduction in performance and without loss of quality, we could improve health care and maintain the standard, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a performance of the health policy of social and health ministers chief with his State Secretary Professor Waneck. I am pleased that we have such a good policy and that we are writing such positive figures. In this sense, we continue, too, and I wish all of us who are involved in it luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12719	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12741	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pumberger, that was a dangerous threat when you spoke of the "good policy" and said that we are continuing in this sense. [[Abg. Steibl: This is not a threat, it is a positive statement!]] Mr Pumberger! Good policy requires secure data with appropriate analyses. I say this in another area, namely drugs policy. There is neither a sufficient secure data base nor the relevant analyses, but there is a policy from the belly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! They are responsible for changing the drugs policy to criminalise people who are vulnerable to search and who are ill, in particular through your regulations that you have made last year. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pumberger is showing me this report. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger keeps the "Report on the drug situation 2001" up to date.]] Mr Pumberger, I too have this report, and I have read it through. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary to break down on the tongue when the Federal Government claims that there is secure data. I quote: "The data available are not always consistent at first glance. However, this is relative to taking into account that a lot of data and information comes from relatively small and locally separated samples or studies and is likely to be collected by different groups of drug users." That is, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not have the appropriate data base. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: He's been introduced by SPÖ!]] Another example? – "On the basis of this data, it is not possible to verify the trends reported by some institutions." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! They are making a trend policy, a drug policy that goes back to the belly and leads to greater criminalisation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr State Secretary – Mr Bundesminister Haupt is not here – I really regret both of you! Do you know the new Court of Auditors report on the fight against drug abuse? [[Abg. Weekly countries: We don't need your pity!]] – I quote: "The Federal Ministry does not have a sufficient drug strategy approach to the health aspects of drug abuse. In addition, there is a lack of a national drug approach, in which the principles and objectives of Austrian drug policy should be defined in the interests of coordinated action by the federal government and the countries." Now let's go into detail, now you can quote a lot, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let's stick to the chapter "Schot-Evidence-file": The recording of the reports and notices of the courts, prosecutors, security authorities and so on "was carried out for years only with great delay, which is why the actuality of the database was no longer given". – Do you want to hear more about the human situation in your ministry, Mr. State Secretary? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger:... for years SPÖ Health Minister!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A good drug policy must be based on appropriate data. We Social Democrats call for a comprehensive drug report, which contains complete data, a database that is suitable for making the appropriate drug policy. Blau-Schwarz is responsible for this abuse, Mr State Secretary. We Social Democrats will no longer see them.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12833	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12855	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I can come back to the private hospitals very briefly and let a little bit of my experience flow from the country's point of view. After all, for a few years I have been a hospital representative of the country of Carinthia and know from this time how important the final addition of the health care offer by private hospitals is. I do not even want to address the fact that, for example, between the Landeskrankenhaus Klagenfurt and the Althofen Special Hospital, there is a cooperation agreement in the field of orthopedic care for the Carinthian population – which is an indication that it is quite useful to have and maintain both the one and the other, in the sense of quality assurance for the Austrian patients. [[Abg. Leikam:... Extraordinary!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is in itself not an ideological issue, as I have taken from my colleague Leikam's call for intervention. You are right, it was colleague Michael Ausserwinkler, who has concluded this cooperation agreement – certainly also in the exercise of his social democratic responsibility. But in the end it is not about something particularly new. On the contrary, it is only about the secure financing of private hospitals. These can, incidentally, take up their activities only after a very strict authorisation procedure. This is not the case with a sausage stand that you can simply place yourself somewhere with a commercial license, but it will be checked whether there is a corresponding need for the services to be provided there or not. In the end, a situation, something which has already worked very well to date, is being further improved, which can also be used there in consensus with the private hospitals for the benefit-dependent billing system, which has long been valid for public hospitals. There's another little wormhead drop. Mr. State Secretary Dr. Waneck, I would not only like to draw your attention to this, but also to ask for your support. In fact, we decide today to reduce the financing of private hospitals. The gross position of about 1 billion Schilling means that private hospitals will have less money available in the future than they had available in the framework of a covert settlement after day rates. I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, to clarify this drop of advertising and this small weakness in your well-known agreement with the Minister of Finance and the political groups in an appropriate way. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In this sense, we will do so because it is an improvement, because it serves transparency and because it ultimately also serves the permanent, secure financing of an industry that provides hundreds of people with bread and income, of course, the consent of today. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12898	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12920	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There must be a reason why Mr Rasinger is so massively opposed to having even the idea of exploring this list of private hospitals. I don't know what the reason is, but there's going to be some reason. Otherwise, Mr Rasinger – and I am not used to it by you – could not be so easily seduced as to really get into the deepest drawer. Mr State Secretary! We have already discussed in the Committee the fact that the list of private hospitals connected here as a supplement is to be assessed accordingly, and that it certainly - I know some of them - refers to institutions that have really nothing to look for in such a law and in funding through LKF funds. I think that needs to be researched first, and then an analysis needs to be made to determine which institutions remain, what quality these offer, how many patients they have et cetera. This has to be listed before. Mr State Secretary! It must also be made known how many of these private hospitals are run and operated by doctors who are also employed in public hospitals and provide their services there, and to what extent there are double financings – on the one hand, because they are already financed by the federal government, and on the other hand, because they are also indirectly still making use of funds for their private hospitals. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This is our criticism, and this criticism has its authority. Not only I, but probably also you, Mr State Secretary, or you, Mr Rasinger, will know some professors who are very likely to double-track their work and in this case are also being financed double-track and twice from the same budget, namely by the public authorities. That's to stop, and we're talking about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since today it is always said that there is nothing but a freedom of choice with private hospitals for every insured person and of course every insured person has the right to go to a private hospital, I ask you how far the reality differs from your ideas. Of course it's not the way you think it is! And none of you can tell me that a farmer who is insured at the Farmers' Insurance Office – or now under the ASVG – and has an accident in her farm would have the opportunity to be treated in a private clinic with her health certificate. Apart from: Would this farmer then belong to those patients who could make their rehabilitation in the private clinic of their doctor? – Of course not! This whole package is only one for a group of people who can afford it more than just someone who deserves little or has a minimum pension. That's why it's two-class medicine! That is undisputed! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This abuse, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is what we want to do before this law comes into force. Nothing will be done afterwards anyway, so this should have happened before. I would like to say one more thing: Last week I read in a medical journal that there will be a so-called test seal in the hospitals. – I am very curious about what criteria will be examined. If it is really true that this test seal is only given in the direction of the apparatus medicine of the respective clinic or department, I can only say: Then you can really save yourself this work and the money that is spent on it, because the basics for quality in these areas are not only in the apparatus medicine, but also in it – my colleague Green Forest has already pointed this out –: Support around the clock, presence of professional staff around the clock, accessibility of clinics, departments et cetera. This is the basis for a test seal – and not only which devices in which clinic are available in what number. That is clearly too little! I also have concerns about the hepatitis C support fund. The establishment of this support fund, Mr. Dr. Waneck, is, of course, a step forward, not a question, but: It is clearly too little to refer these only to those who were blood donors. What is wrong with those people – we have now seen quite clearly in Vienna again – who are just because of blood canned Victims of hepatitis C infections have been or have been infected with hepatitis C virus due to possible other undetected causes?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: The Pittermann was...!]] What about this group of people? Are these, as it were, worse victims than those who donated? – I hope not! Therefore, the support fund must apply not only to those who are blood donors, but also to those who received blood transfusions and were infected with this virus. . I therefore expect, at least, an extension of this support fund. I also expect you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to put pressure on you at last so that both the federal states and the pharmaceutical industry can play their part in this support fund, because with the few schillings that are now in the support fund, you cannot really help anyone. You might be able to calm down a little, but you can't help with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e12985	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13007	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I must say that the interest of the Social Democrats in health policy is very "great". [[Call the SPÖ: Here! Here we are!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: We are all healthy!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Where is SPÖ's health care officer? I can't see him! [[Call the SPÖ: Here we are!]] Half of the members of your group's health committee are missing. In any case, our health care spokesperson is present now; that of the Greens is there too. That's why I have to ask myself how big your interest really is. But perhaps those present by the SPÖ will do something to their colleague, Mr Lacner, because he has spoken about two-class medicine. I just remember that it depends on what insurance you are insured with and what benefits you receive, especially in the case of social security. And this, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, has happened in your time of government – and not in ours! To blame us for these differences, I really do not find it correct! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Csörgits' statement: Costs for patients treated in private hospitals should not also be borne by social insurance. - Quote. That is, Mrs. Colleague, you want first of all the patient to have no right to choose where he is being treated – and second, you even want patients to be punished for being treated in non-public hospitals. That is to say, Mrs Csörgits, you from SPÖ do not want freedom of choice for the patients, neither in the hospital nor in the doctors. I can only say: This mandatory regulation, this centralism corresponds to your ideology. We liberals want this freedom of choice of patients for the doctor of their trust and for the hospital of their trust. Every Austrian pays social security and thus has the right to decide where he wants to be treated. For the health process, trust is an essential factor – and that is why your statement is completely incomprehensible to me. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Achatz: The Csörgits don't even know how much she deserves!]] This law for private hospitals is at last an equality in the billing and transparency of public hospitals. And this transparency refers not only to the costs, but above all to the benefits and their quality. This law also protects patients that special class patients no longer have to be in the hospital as general class patients. They know that the billing was carried out prior to the day of care and it was therefore in the interest of the carriers to have the patient longer in the hospital and/or to perform more services. Sectiorates are higher in private hospitals, operating rates are usually higher than in public hospitals. – As has been said, transparency is now made possible by this method of accounting. This law also makes it possible to make benchmarking between public and private hospitals and to control the range of services and quality, as well as to provide better analysis of funding needs, so that the – in part – regret of individual institutions can be stopped and done according to objective data. Ladies and gentlemen! I qualify for a variety of hospitals, but only on condition that patients receive a treatment that is necessary and high quality for the individual. This transparency also makes it possible to make the best possible decision which hospitals, in addition to the already existing 48 hospitals, come into this pot so to speak. – That is why I cannot share the scepticism of the opposition either. This law contributes to further and better quality care for patients in Austria, and I thank both Minister Head and Secretary of State Waneck for that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to make the following amendment to Agenda item 4: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13142	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to the matter of negotiation and therefore also to the debate or the vote. The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13166	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mrs Hartinger, we are happy to listen to you, but asking for the same full presence is a bit exaggerated! I should like to deal briefly with the infinite history of the compensation of hepatitis C victims, and to say, Mrs Hartinger, that it was Mrs Hostasch, a social democratic minister, who at least gave rapid help to blood donors through AUVA. The Liberals and you from the People's Party, on the other hand, have so far made only announcements on this issue. I see it as a success of social-democratic initiatives that a fund from which payments have at least been made has recently been set up. However, this fund is designed in such a way that the large majority, i.e. the lower levels, are supplied cheaply. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, have also succeeded in preventing blood recipients from being included in the compensation list. Even today, the Ministry does not know whether this fund can exist until 2003 because it is only guaranteed that there will be 15 million schilling for the year 2001 and 15 million schilling in 2002 – at least too little to help the blood donors affected. And it's only too little to give all the injured a compensation. That means that this government will continue to leave more than 50,000 affected recipients in the rain – and all of this, although this government is quite willing to spend hundreds of millions of schillings to replace "red" managers with "blue" or "black", and that, although this government is quite willing to spend many millions to try to sell its inhuman policy and pay in the ministerial offices Gagen for non-trained persons who are higher than those of the President of the Constitutional Court, and that, although this government is willing to give a single speech in the field of Minister Forstinger, 500 000 S! Ladies and gentlemen! Such a policy is an insult to innocent victims! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only an increase in innocent victims, but also an increase of taxpayers, who will once again pay for the slumbering of pharmaceutical companies. I know, Mr State Secretary, you will now tell us that pharmaceutical companies too will make their contribution to this. – However, I do not believe that, because for two years they have promised us that, but until today nothing has happened in this direction, and I bet the pharmaceutical companies will not do so in the future. In my opinion, the countries too are not prepared to pay in these funds. And I don't think we should be trying to do this either, because we don't want taxpayers to be double burdened: Once again they are to pay over the federal budget and then again over the individual national budgets. We Social Democrats want the pharmaceutical industry and its insurance companies to pay. We want the debtors to pay! Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, what the government groups are presenting is a completely different policy. They keep making the victims the perpetrators. They decided, not too long ago, that those patients who had the wrong that an artificial error happened to them must pay compensation themselves. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, not only do one of the workers, pensioners and students contempting politics, but you are also the Sargnagel for the sick.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13236	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13257	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The last sentence of my previous speaker must be rejected, because I believe, without wanting to fall into the language of my colleague, Haidlmayr, that this was really the bottom drawer, and not what our colleague Rasinger is doing, because he is at most taking a drug out of the lower drawer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! After his accident, Ski star Hermann Maier said that only by this incident did he really realize how important a good health care is, one that you can trust, which works and often performs incredible achievements. Austria is world-class in many areas of medicine – and yet we, as well as many other countries, are fighting with enormous challenges, which have not arisen in the last two years, but have been pre-programmed, so to speak, for 30 years. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out that health policy in particular faces many challenges: The population is getting older and older, the progress in diagnostics and therapy is enormous; legal measures in this context are also becoming more stringent, and with increasing prosperity the claim to the health system is increasing. For all these reasons, health policy is our first priority – and, of course, in the future – by the government parties. We defend ourselves vehemently against the accusation of opposition, our health system would be "chaptered". We are trying to ensure that the children have a future – including in our health policy. We from the government parties have not been "challenged" but have conducted responsible health policy over the last two years, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. The "Apothecary Package" alone has brought 2.5 billion schilling – and this without a single patient in Austria receiving a performance. Health policy is probably more than a deficit, savings or contribution debate. I already mentioned it: For 30 years nothing has happened, but the leaf has also turned to this area. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This Federal Government with Chancellor Schüssel at the top has reformed and renovated, especially in cooperation with Minister Head and State Secretary Waneck. Ladies and gentlemen! We stand for a patient-oriented health policy – and I believe that the people know very well. It is precisely with the establishment of this fund that we have continued the path that the then Federal Minister Krammer has taken. This is a logical and consistent continuation or development. The aim must be to bring all hospitals to a common fund. This draft law, which we will adopt today, contributes to transparency and, of course, to quality assurance for patients. I believe that the patients are powerful consumers and are very likely to decide freely and should go where to go for treatment. Our task must be to ensure the best possible quality of supply. Great work is also done in day clinics and sanatoria, where top performances are performed, not only in agglomerations, but also in rural areas. Our task is to create the future for the entire population.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13341	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13363	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the Health Committee, the members of the Federal Government once again showed their true face: In principle, the opposition's applications have been found to be good, the content has been found to be correct, but when it came to taking a step in the right direction, it has not been done – and this has also been done on two very crucial and important points: firstly, what the compensation of hepatitis C victims has been achieved; and the second point, which would be very important and very crucial, but which has not resulted in any decision-making: a stronger quality control for the use of blood and blood products. [[Abg. Weekly countries: But not as targeting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: You have withdrawn the application yourself!]] This has not happened, although, in particular, the second point of the Secretary of State Waneck, present in the Committee, points to the importance and urgency of this matter. Nevertheless, the representatives of the ÖVP and FPÖ simply voted against it. I think this is very negligent, on the one hand, because, at the first point, one does not take measures to enable sick people to receive appropriate financial assistance, and on the other hand, because one fails to take preventive measures so that there can be no negative effects on the use of blood and blood canned. However, other points, other projects, which naturally fit perfectly into the policy of the Federal Government, without regard to losses and bar any reason are simply whipped through. A good example of this is the already quoted federal law on the establishment of a fund for the financing of private hospitals. Without quality control, without further quality assurance, money is to flow from social security funds. Put to the point: It all pays, but only a few can afford it. It's true that there have been contracts with private hospitals in the past, that's right, but now it gets a different quality, now laws are made. This is very interesting: On the one hand, you are so much against a nationalization, but where it fits you into the stuff, do it, there you state. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: We had an agreement with Mrs. Hostasch, Mrs. Csörgits!]] In addition, I would like to say – I stress this once again – that this is a way to the two-class medicine. Even if you don't want to hear it, it's another way towards the two-class medicine: They all pay, they'll afford it only a few can. We have called for a subcommittee to do so, and that is why we believe that many other points in this law are not very well formulated. I would like to stress one point in particular: Only domestic and domestic institutions are listed in the scheme. I believe that it will not be EU-conform that foreign hospitals are excluded. I can still point out the hepatitis C sacrifice. There is an urgent need for action. I would like to say critically here, Mr State Secretary, that your statements in committee were not very fruitful. They spoke of about 300 applications. At 70 of these there is a payment of cash benefits. I am already aware that some other investigations are still under way or that the review process is under way, but the question is already being raised: What about the other cases? In the interests of those concerned, professionalism and speed would undoubtedly be stated here, but your willingness to become active here, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is very, very limited. That is why it is absolutely inexplicable for me that you simply did not agree to our request for a fund which clearly and clearly regulates the rights of the patients and those concerned. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I conclude that your health policy – as in many other areas of politics – is a very heartless one. And if Mr Pumberger believes that he is very proud that we are in sixth place in terms of health policy, I can tell you: That's not your merit. You have adopted a healthy health policy from us, but if you continue this way, it will soon be very, very sick!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13436	Next, Mr. State Secretary, Dr. Waneck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13457	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can put a few figures correctly, because it is always good to assume common conditions. With regard to the funds for private hospitals, which have grown historically over 30 years, i.e. every government that has worked here over the last 30 years, has carried this concept – the expenses have so far been covered by € 71 million; for a better understanding: 977 million schilling. This amount is increased by 2.35 percent to 1 billion schilling or € 72.67 million by the current law. – That once on these facts. This means that there has been quite a normal development, which is below the inflation rate and which is also below that which flows to public hospitals. The essential progress is that this law – and I believe that is the most outstanding thing – has been achieved – even though it is often doubted here in this House that there is a concept in health policy – to take a step towards implementation of this concept, namely to bring all the hospitals of Austria into a joint supply planning. I can remember that a few years ago – I was not here at home, but I was more concerned – with the introduction of the LKF system was always feared that, for example, the Confessional Hospitals choose the lower risks, that they do less, and that the public hospitals have, so to speak, to bear the severe burden of severe diseases and interventions. The LKF system has already proved that this is not the case after a year. And we will also prove this in this way, with this Fund Act involving private hospitals in the LKF system, or – and I give you absolute right – this list is to be searched through, and those who do not correspond to it will clearly fail. But all the others have proved their right to do so. To the Blood Safety Act: I admit, it was tough how long it took for it to be decided. But there is this law now, we have one of the most modern in Europe, and we are fully in line with the EU. To the hepatitis C fund, I can say: Even in the past 13 years, it has obviously not been possible to take action. We've done this within a few months. This fund works, and it works well. Up to now, 470 people have been caught – in the case of suspected 600 – and one has to say that even the call for applications has not yet been made for 180 people. There are 200 tests, it is paid to 70 people. There is a very clear directive on how to proceed here: Persons who were hepatitis C/A/B positive and were subsequently cured by therapy receive a one-time payment of €727 or €10 000, but who have not yet undergone any therapy and are currently undergoing treatment, are also paid at the same amount, persons who are hepatitis-C/A/B-positive despite performed therapy and who have a fibrosis first or second degree, receive €2,000 or €146 per month, persons who have a fibrosis third or fourth grade, receive €291 or €4,000 per month, persons who have undergone liver transplant or who are on the waiting list for liver transplant, will be paid €727 or €10 000 per month. For persons who are diagnosed with liver cancer and who cannot be transplanted for medical reasons, a single payment of €500 000 S or € 36 337 is provided. The fund is liquid, the fund has the resources. The Federation has shown that it is serious to him. It will soon also be agreed with the federal states – there is already a unanimous recommendation decision of the Health Country Councils – and with the industry, so that the funds will be available if they are needed by the Fund. It is not necessarily appropriate to raise funds as long as the final ceiling is not yet reached. Short to the drug report: Not everything that has happened in the past 30 years under social democratic responsibility in the Social Ministry is considered to be bad. [[Abg. May. Prammer: Thank you!]] I would have liked to have taken over this drug report, which existed before my term of office, in this way. This is a cross-sectional matter. We do exactly what you have started – quite properly started – and continue. The same is true of the fact that last year the limit of heroin was lowered, because in the Heroin area there has been a stagnation, while in all other areas things are exploding. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: More drug deaths last year!]] Finally, I would like to point out: I am not responsible for articles that appear in medical journals, but I find that – which is essential and also a milestone in health policy – it has succeeded in bringing all the federal states into one hat and as at 31. December 2001 to decide on common quality criteria, which are now to be implemented. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13519	It's 15 o'clock in the meantime. I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 4 to 7 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Request for urgent procedure by Dr Helene Partik-Pablé, Paul Kiss, colleagues in the Federal Minister for the Interior on measures to combat the exploitation of illegally employed foreigners (589/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13553	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 589/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13607	I give the floor to Mrs Partik-Pablé as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13631	The newspapers of the last few days are full of shocking details about the fates of long-distance drivers who live together under terrible social conditions abroad without money. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Why yell You're three now, after I've just said a sentence? [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Eurolim!]] You can really speak of modern slave work by observing the fate of these drivers, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. We're all shaken. I believe that even those who now laugh, such as in the SPÖ series or in the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Not you, Mrs. Lichtenberger, but behind you. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The ÖGB has expressed its shock by saying that he is in press services "sausage!" and "Freak!" Called. The Chairman of the Trade Union Transport, Trade and Transport Union calls for: The government must finally wake up! Only, ladies and gentlemen, the question is justified: Where, then, was the union when it came to these excesses of the abuse of drivers when the abuse of these people began? Where was the ÖGB? The problem of the exploitation of drivers has not existed since the last two and a half or three years, but it is a long, if not decades of systematic exploitation that has taken place. Mrs Bures said that this spring scandal is only the tip of the iceberg. We all know that icebergs do not arise from today on tomorrow, but icebergs need very, very long to emerge. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Statements about the fact that this scandal has also been known to the union for a very long time, there is indeed. For example, the head of the Austrian Transport Union says: "There has been a problem of black work for years." [[Abg. Oils: And the sparks?]] And then Mr Haberzettl says: "In the face of the international network of organised black businesses, against which the ETF has been mobilising legal initiatives at European level for years, EU Commissions are now called on to act." [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I already see that some of this issue is unpleasant, and I'm going to show you why. [[Abg. Gaál: But no!]] [[Abg. Edellinger: Members of the European Parliament are members of the ÖVP and of the functional and freedom-free mandates.]] For example, Mr Edlinger, Mr Parnigoni said in May 1990 that the highest penalties must be used for black workers. Intensification of measures against undeclared work is required. [[Abg. Edlinger: Yes, of course! But the ÖVP defends black work!]] So that is, SPÖ politicians knew the problem very well. Mr Cap has said that the black work is damaging to Austria's economy. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Expulsion competition on the labour market is the result of foreign workers coming to the country. Mr Hesoun called for a tough approach to illegal employment. Yes even Mr. Klubobmann Gusenbauer has interfered with the topic of black work. In 1993 he even said that the proportionality of penalties for entrepreneurs and employees must be established. That is, he even assumed a punishment for the black workers themselves. That is to say, the problem was well known to the government parties of the past. Unfortunately, nothing has happened at all, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. [[Abg. Edlinger: Because it has prevented the ÖVP, Mrs Deputies!]] They have not responded at all to these problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] Mrs Hostasch, for example, objected to how we have always known it from her. She said there was an increased control activity. Only: This control activity has led to us now having a mega scandal, that is, it has no effect at all. [[Abg. Oillinger: And the beardstone?]] Now that the trade union is claiming that the government is asleep, namely this federal government is asleep, that is really cool, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] You know, this abuse, which has now developed into this mega scandal, must have been encountered much earlier, at the time when there has not been a system of exploitation of the black workers. At that time, there would have been a way to defend the beginnings and to take measures to prevent black work in a broad context, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Bures: You have a bad memory!]] Mrs Csörgits said today that the Federal Government recognized the scope of the scandal far too late. That is true, but it is not this federal government that means it, but the past federal government, which has not correctly recognized the problem and has not taken action. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] You find this laughing that you have not done anything against abuses your Members have revealed ten years ago. [[Abg. Silhavy: Your argument is laughing!]] It can only be an embarrassing laugh of yours. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be mentioned, however, that undeclared work not only affects the question of the questioning industry, but also that black work occurs throughout the economy. There's a study... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Ask Mr. Kralowetz!]] He's in the "Freichter" area. I said yes, it concerns the entire economic area. There is a study by the University of Linz, according to which the level of black work is between 90 billion and 233 billion schilling. It is possible to determine which revenue is lost to the State. But, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government has acted. In the year 2000 - don't laugh, Mr Oillinger, you probably don't know the Foreign Law! – on the occasion of the revision of the Foreign Law – as the crime of the tow was introduced – has also been created a crime against exploitation with a judicially relevant criminal framework. [[Abg. Ollinger: It doesn't matter to Mr. Kralowetz!]] It defines the exploitation. If not properly paid if working time is extended if unreasonable working conditions are required – all this is covered by the provisions of exploitation. Because the scandal that has now been revealed has given us the opportunity to reconsider the threats of punishment, we have now sent this urgent request to the Minister of the Interior. We call on him to reconsider the terms of the exploitation section and to consider an increase in the criminal framework. Mr. Minister! I ask you, in view of the fact that there are really serious malaises to grant our request as well. I would like to comment on an accusation that is always raised by the Greens. You say Mrs. Forstinger has already been known a year ago that there are these abuses by the fishermen. The Minister immediately acted. She has set up a working group – yes, unfortunately God has passed it on to you – and she has been associated with the EU bodies, and not least on the initiative of the Austrians, there has been an EU driver's license. [[Ironic ah- and oh-noise at the greens]] The second reading was in the European Parliament yesterday. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The application went beyond that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government takes the fight against undeclared work very seriously, and I would also like to mention here once again that a working group has already been set up a few weeks or months ago, which consults with international experts on how to counteract international, but also national, blackwork. It is not only a huge competition for the disposal of our employees in Austria, but also a distortion of competition to an enormous extent. And we want to face all of this firmly.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13916	In order to submit an opinion on the subject-matter of the urgent request, Federal Minister Dr. Strasser is speaking. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e13946	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The investigations in the Frächter scandal – that is to be referred to – carried out by the Criminal Department of Lower Austria on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Courts, show a far-reaching Europe-wide networking at the early stage of the investigations. Here and today, in line with today's state of procedure and investigation, we can maintain that bilateral cooperation works very well and very efficiently. At the same time at nine company locations in Austria and 14 company locations in Europe, house searches have taken place, leading to a total of two arrests, approximately 300 attacks by illegal drivers, about 70 of them in Austria. In addition, extensive evidence was provided in Austria. However, it must also be said very clearly that at present we do not have the necessary framework conditions for cross-border control, that we should create these, and that this should be rigorously combated and combated by organised and binding crime. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Cuttgespart!]] In particular, three measures are needed: firstly, a change to the right of foreigners; secondly, the re-designation of the fight against illegal foreign employment; and thirdly, greater road safety through more precise, better organised truck controls. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Cuttgespart!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because you have the executive broken!]] I have three points to make: First: The experience of recent years in the field of towing has shown that Austria is particularly affected by its geographical situation. The intensification of the fight against towmaking is therefore one of our primary concerns, as is the statement of government and the Government Convention. The threat of punishment was too low compared to other European legal systems. We implemented it immediately after the Federal Government took office with a proposal from the Ministry of Interior and Justice. ==References== In July 2000, all cases of towing are criminally punishable. The threats of punishment have been substantially aggravated. [[Abg. Nürnberger: It's about the blackwork!]] The creation of an own judicial record of exploitation with up to two years of imprisonment is therefore a command of the hour. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It is about EU workers!]] The new rules for exploitation are still too narrow, as we can see. That is why we need to implement the measures of the current motion for a resolution together, and I would like to thank you here for the initiative taken by the parties in the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, This scandal clearly shows that checks in the field of illegal foreign employment are not sufficient in the current form. This applies nationally, but this also applies to the European level. In Austria, three ministries are currently in charge in a variety of ways. This concerns issues of foreign law, tax law, commercial law, criminal law and matters of social security abuse. In fact, this is enough about the need for coordination in the management of controls. Now it is about creating clear new units and responsibilities which have the concentration of forces and not new units to move forward in the fight against illegal employment, against commercial tow. On the basis of this fact – which was explained in detail in the urgent request – there have been a number of proposals which have been bundled in recent weeks. I would also like to thank Mr Bartenstein in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Grasser in the Ministry of Finance and, above all, the two club members Khol and Westenthal for the good coordination in the fight against black work. We have drawn up a concept that provides for the competent labour inspectors to work much more closely with the executive in order to establish a massive common bulwark against undeclared work, illegal alien employment and social security abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: With the Kralowetz!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will clearly regulate the responsibilities with this procedure. We will thus ensure an efficient and networked execution of the criminal matrices. We will be able to increase efficiency through direct access of up to 27 000 police and gendarmen in this area, and we will create a central planning and coordination centre for the whole area to be regulated here. Thirdly, The debate on road safety has so far been lacking in the general discussion. Overtired and exhausted, pumped out, yes exploited drivers are an absolute safety risk on Austria's roads and for Austrian road users. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call:Yes]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Show what you can do!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the control of trucks was already a focus of the Austrian Federal Executive last year. Over a thousand priority actions in cooperation with the national governments have led to more than 30 000 advertisements. With the Kundl control station, we have recently established a reference system in recent months, which will ensure more accurate and effective control in this area, and we will work together with the Ministry of Transport and the ASFINAG to develop a comprehensive concept of these control points and ensure that truck controls are carried out precisely and cleanly on the entire Austrian road network. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Germans have implemented this! The Germans, not the Austrians!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: How long do you need to do this?]] Ladies and gentlemen! However, the Austrian efforts alone would be too few. We need European cooperation in this area, and we also want to cooperate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this European cooperation. First of all, bilateral agreements are to be prepared with the Eastern European States in order to deal with criminal proceedings quickly and efficiently, and secondly, joint transport surveillance measures are to be developed, as a pilot project of the Ministry of the Interior of the Dutch and Austrian executives in Tyrol has already shown. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: At the initiative of the labour inspection!]] Summary: It is about a set of measures which will bring more security and clarity to this area in four points. First: The increase of punishment is a command of the hour. Secondly, The concentration of illegal foreign employment forces must now be rapidly monitored. Thirdly, We will also be able to carry out precise truck controls in total Austria, not only in Kundl. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who says this to Bartenstein?]] Fourth: We need to strengthen the cooperation of traffic surveillance in Europe as a whole. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is the package of measures, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to ask you to ensure this, in the sense of Austrian safety, in the sense of the protection of legitimately acting fishermen and drivers for Austrian transport safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14164	I would like to thank the Minister for the opinion on the subject provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We are now entering the debate. According to GOG: no more than 25 minutes, no more than 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Kiss. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14192	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Minister of Security Dr. Strasser, the considerations you have just presented, of course find the full support of the Federal Government and, of course, of the ÖVP and the FPÖ in Parliament. Go with this support You're this right way. By the way, I can tell you, we like to follow you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to share my thoughts in three sections: First of all, speak to some facts and then take a look at the past to bring all of us into memory once again failure of the past. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] And then give us the perspective: Where do we even want to go? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Let's start with the facts, colleague Edlinger. [[Abg. Edlinger: Very self-righteous!]] [[Call the SPÖ:You are an expert for that!]] I'll do that! But listen to me, and do not pre-condemn before you know what I want to say, Mr Edlinger. So let's start with the facts. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Stay with the truth!]] In the transport sector as a whole, we are dealing with about 43 000 employees. Of these 43 000 employees, we can call about 35 000 men and women a handlebar. It says the stand-representation itself that of these 35,000 people... – Listen [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] You're right, Mr Parnigoni! He cracks continuously, one cannot even present a simple argument. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Listen! Of these 35 000 drivers, and that says even the competent representation of the state, are in accordance with the Foreign Employment Act... – He does not stop! [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] He doesn't want to hear, and he doesn't learn with it, and that's his problem! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For the third time, Mr Parnigoni: Thus, 10 to 15 percent of these 35 000 men and women are not as properly employed as Austrian laws provide. This is contrary to the trade union statements, which speak of 80 percent. That so that once the facts are on the table. As a second block to the failures: I can remember that it was the Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch, who meant in the discussion about the introduction of an Austrian driver card: We don't need that, we don't need it because in Austria everything is palletti anyway. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Who was that?]] We have no problems at all, that is not necessary. – That said no one other than the SPÖ Minister of Social Affairs Lore Hostasch. I remember the year 1998 and our initiative. We meant: This card would therefore be useful because every driver would have a personal protection on Europe, a better identification would have been guaranteed, the driver's license numbers and the social security numbers would have been inside. What the EU Parliament decided last week, which is now being implemented in the next few days and weeks, we would have had in Austria four years ago if there had not been an obstacle. – That was the SPÖ, that was Lore Hostasch. This is a failure in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because we all have such a short-term memory – and unfortunately he lacks God, but I say: [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's exactly what you're saying!]] He's deliberately missing! –, Caspar should be one of us so that I can make two premises, namely, failure during his activity as Minister of Transport. Caspar One thing has been that has not dealt with all the control proposals under the Goods Transport Act. The mess we now have we owe to him, among other things. He just ignored it. Since 1998, there has been only an ostative Njet until the end of its term of office. Caspar One thing that's been. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A second in this context: It has also prevented the amendment to the motor vehicle law which would have changed the rental conditions for trucks. This makes the puss just as real in dimensions as we did not want it on the part of ÖVP and FPÖ, but one has forced this development. Unfortunately, he is not here to confirm what I have said about the past and the failures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are therefore already logical in the proposals: How do we want to keep it from the Federal Government, from the coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ? I've already said, The Federal Minister for the Interior has all the support when he says in the field of the Foreign Law: The provisions on exploitation, as we fixed them last year, must be strengthened in view of the circumstances we find them now. So we will be in a novel to the Foreign Law – and I am pleased, Minister of Foreign Affairs, that this urgent request is aimed exactly in this direction – do what is appropriate to parliamentarians: We deal with matter, deal specifically with it, and find a way. We will raise those criminal frameworks that we know must simply be higher for exploitation than the previous two years. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] In Germany – and that is just an example – the criminal framework for exploitation in the sense that we interpret it is set at ten years. I don't know if it'll be. I'm even one who says: Throughout the EU, we have sought the harmonisation of this criminal provision. It should not be so that, if a European problem is to be solved, there is a penalty for up to ten years in an EU country, while in Austria, at the age of two and in other countries, we may even be spending six months. This is not the Europe we are talking about. A critical comment to the EU address, the Commission: If the curvature of the cucumbers, over which we have all laughed many times, or if the size of the seat is standardized in tractors, then of course this standardisation must also be done in these criminal provisions in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Of course, I also oppose the fact that a whole group of entrepreneurs is referred to as black sheep. I and we from the ÖVP are for differentiation, because if it is so that we all throw each other into a pot, then we do what nobody ultimately wants. The good, the correct, the respectable, those who carry out all that is provided for by the law, which are in serious competition, we must not punish, but we must strengthen it. But against the black sheep, we have draconian action. Federal Minister! There is also the full support of the ÖVP and, as I believe, the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Because the SPÖ trade unionists have already signaled me in press releases that it is also about the Black Labour Act in this context, I just want to say one thing to exaggerate an argument just before: Yes, the ÖVP, still in the coalition with the SPÖ, voted against this Black Labour Act because we said: There is no question that our small house builders are being criminalised, as the comrades wanted at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: Not at all! Stay with the truth!]] Among other things, we have said no to this law in order not to criminalise neighborhood aid, as we know it in the country, so that the helping neighbours cannot be regarded as black workers on a flat-rate basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The memory wound, Mr. Edlinger, whom you put to me, I will give it back to you. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Edellinger.]] They are the ones who remember in principle nothing more that has to do with figures and facts. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] They have already provided us with a whole pair of examples, for example from this pult. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Coming to the end: Federal Minister! Go this way you've sketched. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) "Eurolim"!]] They are going this way with us, and I am convinced that it will be a good way for Austria, but also for all those who work in the field of the food industry, for the entrepreneurs as well as for the servants.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14464	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14485	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mr Partik-Pablé and Mr Kiss. "Stop the thief!" cannot be the slogan of the treatment of this subject. It really can't be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that if you go into yourself, you cannot maintain the claims you have made here from the speaker's desk. There was no case in the Black Entrepreneurship Act that would have hit the small house builder or the neighborhood aid. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Khol and Dr. Fekter.]] It was a unanimous Council of Ministers decision of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, and you blocked it here in the house. Nobody else! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Listening It's her! Let us also hold on: Notices on the first suspect moment of the open scandal, which is now in public, were made in December of 2000 and in January 2001 to the Foreign Minister, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour and to Mrs Forstinger. But it is only when the German authorities have become active, and not the Austrian. That too is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And we're still holding on: In 1999, you would have had the opportunity to take measures here in Austria, just as the Minister of the Interior has said, in the direction of a coordinated authority, to take a common approach. You've blocked it, and today you're going to introduce yourself here and introduce this to us. There you have to keep the mirror in front of your own face! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As Mrs Partik-Pablé said that the trade unions had just shown this to the honourable Member. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't do anything!]] ==References== The trade union in a debate with the Federal Government on November the previous year: Question: What about the Black Entrepreneur's Act? – It will come, it will come, that is in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 30 years you've been in the government! Why didn't you do that yourself?]] 21. January 2002: one more request. - Nothing is there, nothing is there. Put the measures on the table! If you are talking about these measures, I note that in the previous year, in Vienna alone 200 legal disputes with transport operators and fought, unpaid wages amounting to more than 10 million schillings. In Lower Austria: 58 companies, five percent of the companies were checked in the previous year, 75 million Schilling repayment of wrong-paid and non-paid social security contributions. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Do you throw this before us? What can we do for that?]] Don't say that this is not really a task of the trade unions! The trade unions are the only ones who really work there and not just talk about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Leave And you tell me clearly: We do not fight against entrepreneurs who create fair conditions. We are in favour of protection, especially for correct entrepreneurs, but also for workers in this context. We must not turn the victims into perpetrators, as it has, for example, been depicted in such a picture, as one of the unfortunate victims, who has been taken into handcuffs by truck drivers in Lower Austria, while the perpetrator rests on the capital he has extorted to these people under slave-like conditions, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] What is it like in our legal system? If a handlebar causes an accident through the pressure that keeps on it, who goes out and who goes into jail? The businessman who's putting him under pressure? It's not the handlebar, it's the handlebar! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against illegal employment, against the misuse of social and tax rights that we have in Austria, must be a common concern. I have no understanding that there is always a need for such an event to happen. In all clear terms: Your motion for a resolution is half-hearted about the solution to the problem. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Go!]] It is not just a question of illegal employment! It is also the question of the employment conditions under which the whole happens. And that's why: If you are closer to the application of the Black Entrepreneur's Act more clearly and quickly, we will create an authority! We do not save ourselves by putting in such an alibi handling, with which we deal only with the Minister of the Interior. At least three ministers have been addressed here, not just the Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Wattaul: Four!]] I said at least three. At least three ministers are addressed to act. The Council of Ministers adopted a unanimous decision in 1999 but the EIA prevented the decision in plenary. Implementation has failed with the votes of the ÖVP. It's not about cavalier crime. 20 000 kilometers of travel in one month, payment according to mileage, and not according to the collective contract, 12, 13 and more hours! That's not some adventurous story, that's unfortunately reality on Austria's streets. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it must not be possible for us to live in a country where, for example, when an accident occurs, illegal workers are transferred across the border, so that they do not notice that they have been illegally employed. It's about tax fraud and social fraud! On the other hand, the call for more professionals does not help anything, as he was sounded yesterday by the Chamber of Commerce. This reputation in connection with the freight forwarding and fleeting companies is very peculiar at all: Currently, we have 15 352 unemployed drivers, 1 101 open jobs, and in view of that, the Chamber of Commerce called yesterday in the "Mindtagsjournal": We need more professionals! Of these 15 000 – more than 15 000 – more than 2,000 foreign nationals are eligible for employment in the country. Who prevents anyone from using these people? It is a fact that the industry wants to rehabilitate itself through a ruinous competition that takes place on the back of the employees. I can't believe it's a scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In comparison to which the diesel price per kilometer is already higher, wages are paid. This isn't the place where Vernängeren won't help! It's not about fucking an entire industry, it's about protecting those who work properly and under proper conditions, and fighting against those who are exploiting. Mrs Partik-Pablé! You referred to the European Parliament. This has been an initiative by the social partners at European level. The 2000 Transport Ministerial Conference, the 2001 Transport Ministerial Conference, did not deliver any results on this point. The pressure of European employers and trade unions together – in this sector there are resolutions and verifiable data – has led to this license. However, I regret that the European Parliament is acting with a gentleness in this area, which is not exactly a leaf of fame. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're right!]] If the transitional provisions only become effective in 2009 – 2009, in the draft – and in 2007 a study is started – that is also in the draft – to check whether this is at all necessary, then you are going to look at the matter half-heartedly and not to protect those who work properly, but to do so to those who use these systems, my very dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Wattaul: No!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are not talking about neighborhood aid, clearly and clearly. We are dealing with the fight against black entrepreneurs, we are dealing with the fight against illegal employment, we are dealing with the fight against the black sheep, which, in fact, are constantly putting into trouble those who work properly. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, especially the EIA: Give up your resistance, we are rapidly working on the implementation of the law against undeclared work in the house! Then we're on the right track and don't put alibi actions – just like you do with your own proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14673	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14695	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Vergestnitsch, the subject is, in fact, far too serious to polemise, far too serious, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I also think that, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, it is no good to look around who did not respond in 5 minutes. I'll tell you one thing: Since this Federal Government is in office, this issue has been a very serious one, and it is all being done in a feverish way to tackle the problem. Take note of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is a spring scandal, but it is a problem which, of course, is not only valid for the freighters. This has already been carried out repeatedly today. Nevertheless, I would like to deal with the problems of the transport industry, because in recent days there have been some self-appointed transport experts who have also contributed to this issue. [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you think you're yourself?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think you have to work in two different directions. Mrs. Forstinger, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, was already on the 8th floor. In a letter in May 2001, their ministerial colleagues asked that they should first of all be able to obtain the European driver's licence in conjunction with the European authorities. This has now happened to God thanks to the fact that this problem has been resolved in the European Parliament at second reading and this licence will be available throughout Europe. This scheme will enter into force in about a year. If I did, it could happen more quickly, but that is what is happening in the European Union. But this has already been set in motion. The second problem is also clear: How to create uniform standards across Europe? – I say quite clearly to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group: I too am against this nebulous type of calculation after driven kilometers, after which the driver is then removed from his wages. These are really lousy methods, which is to be condemned hardest. The liberals stand for proper social standards in this area, Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have to take note of that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Vergestnitsch! I respect your wishes, but we Austrians cannot simply say that we forbid this type of price calculation on a kilometre basis, namely a schilling per kilometre – and the others do not do anything. This would be a continuation of the distortion of competition as we already have it. Although we would have high social standards, there would be nothing in Europe. That would be the wrong approach. Therefore: There is a need for uniform social standards in Europe and at the same time they must enter into force in all 15 Member States. That is how you get under control of this problem, and not the other way! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: European Trade Union Confederation!]] It seems that the European employee representation or the European workers' organisations in the European Union have been less successful than the strong grassroots lobbies. You have to say that quite clearly. The Spring Lobbies are constantly pressured and have apparently been successful, otherwise the Council and the Commission would have done something at a much earlier time and would have come to a solution. Apparently this is on the employee's side – I regret it! – does not happen to the extent that this imbalance has arisen. And this imbalance – Mr Verzellnich, you know that very well – has led a country, namely Luxembourg, to permit that regulation and to allow companies to be registered if they do not bring vehicles into Luxembourg, where there are no employees or only illegal employees. You have to see that very clearly. This is a misdevelopment that has taken place in Europe, in Luxembourg and has benefited some well-founded business people. These are the black sheep in an industry that has, of course, been properly under pressure. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: These are the "blue" sheep!]] You have to say that quite clearly. This major problem manifests itself. [[Abg. Edlinger: These are the "blue" sheep!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'm honouring You're trying, but now we have to act. It does nothing if you say that the Federal Government has already brought nothing together again. This federal government is working on this problem. You heard that from Mr. Strasser. I'll tell you: The Ministry of Transport is also working on this. I am convinced, as I am sorry, that there is always a need for an occasion, that this occasion will create the pressure with which we will be able to reach an agreement on social standards in the foreseeable future, and that this will also be implemented in a Europe-wide regulation. But I do not think so, Mr Vergestnich, if you say that first of all, enlargement of the East must be achieved so that this problem can be addressed. This must first be regulated within the Community, then you can talk more about everything – and that in peace and with an eye! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14856	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Lichtenberger. 10 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e14896	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Last week's reports have brought a fact to the surface, which has long existed, namely that Europe's roads have become a crime scene for economic crime. Overtired handlebars, under pressure, paid for miles, drive under risk of safety on our roads. There are inhuman working conditions that cause a price struggle, which in turn leads to the road being favoured by the rail and, at the end of the day, – and this must be determined – to create an imbalance, whose consequences we have at the Brenner and, of course, also in the Inntal. [[Abg. Wattaul: The burner is back!]] Economic crime has increased enormously in recent years. Working conditions are becoming more and more extreme, and you, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals and the People's Party, are taking the lead in this issue today – with inadequate means! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] After years, yes, for decades – now I am particularly addressing the People's Party – abuses on our roads and in the freight industry are now developing a phenomenal activity. You have certainly seen all of them in the "Report" mission yesterday, the document of that district headquarters team, which proves that, obviously, even authorities participate in this disaster, they become, consciously or unconsciously, co-operates with and cause these terrible working conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, should have been known to you for a long time. Mr Wattaul! I have listed here the board of directors of transport, transport and telecommunications. You know these rulers – even those who are now incriminated. [[Abg. Oils: Very good even!]] I cannot imagine, Mr Wattaul, that you do not know that you never know how these transactions are handled and what happens to scandals. Why has the Chamber, why have you never done anything in the Chamber to protect the white sheep – perhaps only a few – from this competition on the back of the cyclists? [[Abg. Oils: White-blue sheep!]] Mr Wattaul! I'm really asking you: Where were your activities in the past? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where were you? You know everything!]] Mrs Schoettel-Delacher! They also know about the business links with Luxembourg, with international companies. You know how this is done. Why did you not inform your minister, your group? – They know how the others in the market are tricking in this field to work against the entrepreneurs who are reasonable in their dealings with their employees. Finally, protect these entrepreneurs from this kind of competition, carried out on the back of the cyclists! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Achatz, Wattaul and Dr. Martin Graf.]] I ask you: Where were your activities? – You, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, all heard yesterday in the "Report" mission that the German investigator has found that the best connections to the ministries exist across Europe – and he has not excluded Austria – in order to maintain the conditions as they are – on the back of the employees! I wonder, Is that also true in Austria? – Mrs Forstinger must also know. She speaks before Upper Austrian sparklers and gives them good tips on the use of ecopoints. She needs to know who she was talking to. It must have been known to her what's going on here. [[Abg. Ahatz: such a fool!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What did you know?]] What happened? – Now I come to work or inactivity in this area. We had the novel on the freight transport law in the Transport Committee. At this meeting of the Committee on Transport, there was a debate on the fact that the penalties for abuse must finally be increased, that a more stringent criminal provision should be created. What happened? – This request was, of course, rejected! Why, then, is the possibility of withdrawing from the concession under the Goods Transport Act when using such practices not used? Why is it not possible to really tighten this provision in the freight transport law? The fact is: The Minister of Economic Affairs washes his hands in innocence. Perhaps this has something to do with the fact that many Austrian peoples belong to the Austrian People's Party. And the Minister of the Interior now announces those measures which a group from the executive has already listed and called for at a meeting in Innsbruck last year in March. Time for implementation would have been long ago! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister Strasser! I have another question to ask you. The report on these now stranded long-distance drivers in Luxembourg yesterday found that it was obviously the first and most important intention on the part of the Austrian authorities to find out addresses and names of these long-distance drivers in order to move them off as quickly as possible or to prevent them from entering as quickly as possible. Minister! Is that right? – If that is true, then it would fit back into the old tradition of leaving the entrepreneurs unscathed and further punishing the workers, the workers, the exploiters. That can't be! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I urge you to make it clear that these people enjoy the protection of Austria until their claims against these entrepreneurs, which they were exploited, have been exploited in a medieval way! – have been fulfilled. I think that is urgently necessary, and that is the minimum we can do for these people. Unfortunately, Mr Bartenstein is no longer present. In its area of responsibility, too, the question arises whether the lack of control and this ridiculously small number of inspectors on the road are linked to the fact that work and economy are combined in a ministry, whatever – and in this area one sees it as exemplary – goes and has to go at the expense of the control of working conditions. That must be changed as well! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Prammer.]] I have a whole package of requests on this subject, of which I will make one, because I think it is necessary to have access to this problem on all possible rails today. One thing has to be clear: The means of resolving this question in the Foreign Law is completely unacceptable! Mrs Stoisits will do this even more precisely to you, I just say so much: There is a need for an own criminal record on this issue, because towing is something different from the exploitation of long-distance drivers. Towing is part of this, but unfortunately these people often have to enter at their own expense and illegally before they even get this employment. It seems to me that this occasion would once again be used to raise unreflected criminal frameworks in laws, which then meet quite different from those discussed here. It can't be allowed like this! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am now submitting the first request from our request for a solution to the problem of illegal employment and the exploitation of these drivers; it concerns control. [[Quoted print version removed]] It's clear: This scandal did not reveal the Austrians, but the Germans. We have needed our German neighbours to...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15094	Please note the speaking time!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15109	... to finally catch the black sheep in Austria. It certainly can't go on that way in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15148	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled. It is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15178	The nobler from the railway! I know, Mr. Edler, you can only talk about the railway and nothing else. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] But last but not least, you are also responsible for the condition of the railway and thus also for the state of freight transport in Austria. This is not particularly good, and it is therefore not particularly good because the union has for years and decades failed to allow a modern train. That's the truth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] By the way, Mr Edler and Mr Parnigoni, I can Your excitement and your impatience honestly do not fully understand. [[Abg. Edler: Now comes the Moment of Truth!]] The new Federal Government cannot solve all the problems that your transport ministers and your finance ministers have left in two years. [[Abg. Edlinger: The road construction was with you!]] Let's have at least four years, a legislative period, time! Then we will have solved the problems, because we are on the right track, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Edellinger:... a case of total memory loss!]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you should take your own nose on this question. Mr Kiss has already pointed out a number of shortcomings of your transport ministers. I also recall, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that the Minister of Transport has not implemented the EU's Professional Driver's Directive and therefore also a massive steering deficit, especially as regards the quality of the handlebars. [[Abg. Kiss: That's it! That's why he's missing because he has a bad conscience!]] So take your own nose! The problems we now have are Your bad policy, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] And I am totally opposed, Mr Vergestnich, that you are here trying to make our police ready, too, and pretending as if we had done nothing but had to start this matter exclusively from abroad. This is wrong, ladies and gentlemen. It was the transport department of the Vorarlberger Gendarmerie, which first took the initiative, returned an appropriate notice and also provided the appropriate information to the German authorities. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] This has only led to this great European search success on this issue. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Huber.]] You also know, Mr Vergestnich, that what you said about the Black Labour Act would not be true in this form and that it would have done nothing to deal with the problems we are dealing with in this scandal. We do not allow our housekeepers to be skinned in the pan, because, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill stood inside: direct house search – that would have been possible – immediate arrests and also an identity check without judicial order. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[Abg. Kiss: That's it! This has never been explicitly excluded!]] – We won’t let that happen! That's where we meet our house builders! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It should not be destroyed, but it would be wrong to build this scandal into a purely Austrian scandal. It is necessary to leave the church in the village, because in fact the causes are mainly in European freight transport practices. Ladies and gentlemen! Some of the abuses that have been revealed here also go beyond Austrian reality, because in Austria more than 80 percent of local transport companies are active, and these are subject to very different conditions from those of cross-border long-distance long-distance transport. These businesses, which work correctly, are also the majority. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes! Fairy tale’ has gold in its mouth!]] The majority of road transport companies also do not understand illegal practices because they comply with the laws. They are therefore also – and we stand behind them on this issue – against flat-rate evasions as they have been presented here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But Mr Vergestnitsch has already said something right in this context. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Please! A golden grain!]] He said that the scandal about the practices in the craft sector shows the importance of EU enlargement and the associated acquisition of social and workers' rights by the candidate countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Criminal practices are facilitated by the huge income gap and the different social standards, and especially the people from Eastern Europe are being misused as cheap competition. [[Abg. Oellinger: The between the blind market and Vienna! What income gap? What do you mean? What income gap?]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the EU enlargement, which is rightly called the largest peace project, is to succeed, we must create a high standards of social and workers' rights! Exploitation and social fraud must not be a cavalry crime in any country! We therefore also need a corresponding EU directive on the cross-border fight against these abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15410	Mr Vergestnitsch spoke on a point of order to make an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which are also known to him. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15445	Mr Kukacka, in his speech, said that I agreed that house searches would have been possible. I note that the explanatory remarks of the Act, adopted unanimously in the Council of Ministers, clearly and clearly stated: In any case, a house search is not allowed. (Applause from the SPÖ. - Abg. Silhavy: Look here! – Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals. - Abg. Dr. Mertel: Continue the untruth!)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15476	Mrs Bures is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15497	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka, your statements – and the actual correction has confirmed this – were far from any reality. You tried to yell around here and put it out loud, but that didn't make your statements any more correct in any way. Because of the non-negotiation you show in this area, do not imagine the house builders – you do not care about them at all – but rather the Black Entrepreneurs. This is the scandal we want to discuss today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As many say, the now unexploited Frächter scandal is only the tip of an iceberg – the tip of an iceberg in terms of social fraud, black labor and human-respecting slave work taking place there. Through dubious bypassing, those affected have been treated with scandalous wages and have suffered unbearable working conditions. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, it is not a coincidence that this scandal was not revealed in Austria, but, as everyone knows, Mr Kukacka, in Germany. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Kukacka!]] It was therefore discovered in Germany because there are efficient legal regulations there, which we do not have in Austria, but which you could have implemented, and because there is a much better control system in Germany than in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: 30 years you were in the government! You could've made it quiet!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You were in government for 30 years!]] [[Congratulations to Dr. Cap and Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, the Federal Government – and this distinguishes it from many other European governments – makes forbearance and mildness prevail. One could almost get the impression that this practised "Schlendrian" is intended. Of course, the question is more and more: Why are the black entrepreneurs in Austria protected by this government in this form? Apparently – there are many answers – the milling lobby in the government parties has a strong weight. Otherwise, I do not think it can be explained that the introduction of the truck toll – 20 billion schilling losses so far – has been dragged away and delayed by this federal government for two years. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a scandal at all!]] Otherwise, it is also impossible to explain that you have not introduced or implemented in full knowledge of the abuses any effective controls and no legal regulations that we have introduced several times and which are also on the table. Why are sensible measures on the table prevented by this Federal Government and by ÖVP and FPÖ? – There are, of course, profiters in this spring scandal! There are profiters of these criminal machinations that run out here. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The largest Fekter is the ÖBB in Austria!]] There is the profiteer, Mr. Kralowetz, whose name is all over the media. [[Abg. Edlinger: Who is this?]] With its company empire, it is close to the FPÖ. It's important to me to keep this up. Mr Kralowetz is located near the FPÖ. He is a FPÖ Economic Chamber Officer. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah!]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Sodian: Which Kralowetz? There are many!]] Mr. Kralowetz is a leading employee of the Freedom-Economics and FPÖ Community candidate in Lower Austria. This is the scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Contradict with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Here a scandal explodes in the middle of the FPÖ. You obviously didn't learn from the case of Rosenstingl! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr keeps a side of the "Kurier" up where the title "Black sheep belong behind grids" can be read.]] It will now be possible to examine how such black entrepreneurs could be covered politically. [[Call the SPÖ:Blue sheep! Blue sheep behind lattices!]] The question is: Has there been a flow of money from FPÖ black entrepreneurs to the Freedom Party? Is the FPÖ direct co-profiter of this incredible social and tax fraud that goes on here? The next case in the area of the FPÖ is already close, it is already stunning on the horizon. I'm just saying, Mr Augustin! [[Abg. Wattaul: But he doesn't belong to us!]] Mr Augustin, his sign member of the Freedom-Economics Ring, one of the largest providers of this country, has 800 trucks, but only 398 employees. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The ÖBB has several thousand!]] Who's driving these trucks? – I can tell you: Mr Augustin - FPÖ-functionary - has a number of procedures pending, namely 30 because of illegal employment and 40 labour law procedures he is facing. – This is the scandal to be discussed today, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Blue Augustin!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: None at the ÖVP!]] I mean, it's no coincidence that six FPÖ representatives in the Transport Committee have three from the freight sector – six from the transport committee, three from the freight sector! Can these three exclude such machinations for their companies? I would like to mention another case in the area of FPÖ: the company Delacher – a circumvention construction in my opinion –, a large fisherman with branches – what a coincidence! – in Budapest and Luxembourg; with a close relationship with the FPÖ! Even the head of the German Special Commission for the Investigation of the Frächter scandal says that the incriminated companies have contacts up to the highest political circles of the government. [[Abg. Wattaul: You shouldn't read so many Western novels!]] What could he have meant if he said that? I think it is clear from all this why the FPÖ has not put on the table any solution to the problem with the urgent request that has been made here today, but has actually only started a plumpous distraction maneuver. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You wanted higher punishments!]] Mrs Partik-Pablé! With the reference to the right of foreigners in your application, the victims of the scandal are made perpetrators, but the perpetrators and profiters – and these are in the FPÖ – are spared. That's incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's incredible!]] In this context, of course, the ÖVP must also raise unpleasant questions: The question arises why the ÖVP has been tossed down to this day the legislative proposal for the fight against black entrepreneurs, which it agreed to in 1999 in the Council of Ministers. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Criminalize house builder!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister Bartenstein! The question is why labour inspection has reduced controls from month to month in the last two years. Mr Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Of course, it also raises the question of why you do not protect the decent companies from this "pollutant competition", take measures and engage in fair competition. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In my opinion, it is clear that this is a scandal that is taking place in the middle of the FPÖ and in which the ÖVP is guilty by non-negotiation. There's nothing to do with the whole way of talking. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's absolute nonsense!]] I think that, as a result of this scandal, measures must be taken immediately against this flourishing shadow economy. [[Abg. Kiss: The Crying Saw!]] The Socialist Group therefore makes the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the interests of Austrian workers, but also of truck drivers and their families, I would like to ask you to accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15884	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé spoke on an actual correction. The speaking time is 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e15916	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures has made the enormous claim: The beneficiaries of the scandal sit in the FPÖ, and Kralowetz is a member of the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is an evaluation!]] I correct both as follows: [[Call the SPÖ: She didn't say that!]] It's not right that any FPÖ member or sympathizer is a scandalist. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Ring of Freedom-Economics!]] There are also four Kralowetz’s. Neither the prisoner is a member of the Freedom Party, nor are the three other brothers Kralowetz. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Only his horse!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: His car!]] It is no one of the names of Kralowetz who is a member of the Freedom Party. I would ask you to take note of this. (Applause from the liberals. - call of the Abg. Dr. Cap. - Abg. Parnigoni: Open your membership file! - Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé – leaving the speaker’s seat –: You can look in there! – Further calls and calls between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16005	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bures is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Bures asked for a personal reply to point out that she did not need the text that Dr. Partik-Pablé did in respect of FPÖ. However, I note that this part of Mrs. Partik-Pablé's statement is in the replay of the claim and not in the description of the actual facts, so that, according to our constant practice, a personal response is not possible in such a case. Mr Böhacker spoke of a further corrective step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Professors of the scandal" she said! That's what I wrote! Read it in the minutes!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not even that you can remember what she said! You should remember!]] [[Abg. Bures: Ring of Free Trader was the statement!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Hearless Association!]] Mr Böhacker, you are speaking. The speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16100	Mrs Bures said that Karl Augustin was a member of the FPÖ. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] - That's wrong! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: She didn't say!]] Let me talk, please! True is rather... [[Call the SPÖ: That's wrong!]] [[Abg. Bures: It's just wrong that I said that!]] Why are you so nervous? – True is rather: Karl Augustin is neither FPÖ member nor FPÖ functionary nor member of the RFW. [[Abg. May. Worm: RFW!]] So much for the truth content of your interpretations. (Applause from the liberals. - Abg. Bures: You misquoted me! - Abg. Wattaul: But he's got a blue car! - Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You should be ashamed that you are spreading such untruths! - Abg. Equation: Wattaul! Your report... from the Chamber of Deputies! - Further calls.)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16189	The next speaker is Mrs Achatz. She'll get the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16210	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bures! Mr. Karl Augustin rides with blue trucks, but he is not yet more liberal, and he still has blue eyes, but that's why he's not a freer. You really need to be careful! I like to wear the color red, but that's why I still don't choose the SPÖ! That's a big difference! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: That's why I would ask you very much!]] [[Abg. Bures: Blue eyes, too?]] The excitement is completely unnecessary. The problems and the events in the spring industry are well-informed. It is precisely for this reason that the coalition parties have today tabled this urgent request. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That doesn't solve any problems!]] The liberals and the ÖVP will discuss this problem and take the necessary steps. It is absolutely wrong, however, that the problem in the food industry is a failure of this government. I really ask you about the SPÖ: What have you done in all the years before against the abuses in the craftsmanship? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel:... Years of the Alone Government!]] What did the union do? What has the Chamber of Workers done to combat the exploitation of the drivers? – I can tell you, the union knows – and you know that very well, Mr Vergestnich – for years now about the abuses in the food industry, and it has done nothing: Zero comma Joseph! As early as 1997, I indicated in Upper Austria that in the case of an operating agreement, dramatic wage cuts – up to 10 000 S grossly less per month – were imposed. [[Abg. With whom?]] Mr Vergestnitsch! That was five years ago. How did the union react? – Unfortunately, this is not an individual case, the trade union confirmed the trend to go far below the collective contract in the case of wages. A truck driver called me at the time and told me that at these business meetings the drivers were told: Either you accept these pay cuts, or others come to the train. Outside, thousands of Romanians and Bulgarians are waiting to work around half the money. [[Abg. Vergestnichtsch: Put it in the shoes of the union!]] [[Call the SPÖ: There's the union to blame!]] And where are the works councils? What did the works councils do? What did the union do? The trade union and SPÖ have been known for years that truck drivers from the East are also abused to push the wages of Austrian drivers massively. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is unbearable!]] [[Abg. Conscious: Call the company!]] There are no 10,000 S gross per month, some regulations are even illegal, and what did Transport Trade Union Secretary Reinhard Freinhofer say in 1997? – He said the drivers are intimidated or put on the road. In the transport sector, he said, it looked terrible, and they set a strong trend towards wage dumping. And now I'm asking you: Who was politically responsible in 1997? – There was a SPÖ chancellor, who called Vranckky, there was an interior minister who called One, and the Social Minister called Hostash. So the political responsibility was 100 percent with the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Take note of this and note that this federal government will deal with these shortcomings!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16366	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16388	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I think this is not going to be achieved in foreign law by all the abuses that have been so accused. I wonder, Why did your ach not work so well in the matter of towing? – Mr Federal Minister, if you do not do anything in commercial law, if you do not intervene in the financial control of smooth circumvention laws even in blue economic operators with the full hardness of the law, this will be of no use at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Members of the Liberal Group have said that there is no connex between the member of the Chamber of Commerce, member of the Free Trade Association, Mr Rainer Kralowetz and Karl Kralowetz, who was imprisoned in Luxembourg. That, Mr. Federal Minister – and you know that, because your people do not research so badly! – is the smooth and the third untruth. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would say that there are not only connections, but that is a company empire of the Kralowetz brothers, which is just too large and relatively manageable. [[The speaker keeps a graphic up-to-date.]] It's also remarkable that they don't try to cover that up anymore, and I wonder why not. I also wonder whether today's request by a government party concerning a person close to you actually makes sense to slow you down and take you to the kandare, so that it can be clarified here in the House as well: This is some company in Luxembourg that has nothing to do with our blue board. - Is that the thought behind it? – I do not think you will be able to endure this, Minister of State. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No intertwinements? – I have to say that we haven't researched for a very long time, but what comes out in the shortest time is "very thick". On the one hand: The company of Mr. Kammerrats, the RFW Chamber Council Rainer Kralowetz, is apparently able to run the homepages for the entire company. It answers for all companies, including the companies of Karl Kralowetz, who are detained in Luxembourg. She is there announcing details about the alleged employment conditions, she obviously knows everything on a homepage. The insurance of this "land-based Luxembourg" company, which is pointed out – it is said there, we have additionally insured our riders – is the state insurance. The Federal Insurance, now UNIQA, has also recently renewed the Treaty, as if there were no functioning insurance systems in Luxembourg at all, or very little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] All this, however, is "no Connex" to Austria. One of the banks of the Karl Kralowetz’s company, which imposes these slave labour conditions, namely the company UCL, the house bank of this "territorial Luxembourg" company is the Sparkasse Blindenmarkt – where Rainer Kralowetz happens to have its headquarters. [[Abg. Oillinger: An international bank company! Top ten!]] When the authorities then started researching in Austria, see: The company UCL is "at random" rented into the same building in which the Blue Chamber Council has its headquarters. But this is certainly a "pure coincidence", in the thing the "nothing" have to do with each other! He's involved in the company UCL. It is both the imprisoned Karl Kralowetz with 25 percent involved in the company of Mr. Rainer Kralowetz – you say that this is only done in the inheritance path, that happened by chance because the father died – and also the Kralowetz GesmbH of Mr. Kammerrats about the company MEDICON, according to a very up-to-date information from the KSV to the companies of Karl Kralowetz and thus to the UCL, which has operated this terrible slave service relationship. Federal Minister! This is a company complex, and I must say that I am surprised when Mr. Blue Chamber Councillor Rainer Kralowetz is currently telling almost triumphantly: Nothing was confiscated with me, we're only on the brink, because we happen to have this "evil" company rented in with us. – He was excluded from a file confiscation because, he says, we have nothing to do with it. [[Abg. Neudeck: We both have the same bank and have nothing to do with each other!]] No, he has nothing to do with it, nothing at all. They have the same banks, the same insurance companies, they have the same homepage, but they have nothing to do with each other. That's like with the Rosenstingl brothers: There was only one person who wanted to help the other, but otherwise they had nothing to do with each other – nothing at all, nothing at all, nothing at all! In so far as, Mr Federal Minister, the question is: Is it true that you didn't find anything there? This is also the case with the Minister for Economic Affairs. I suppose his employees will be there. I think that some questions would have to be asked automatically if you only looked at the company's data on the Internet. If a company itself says they have about 100 heavy trucks – the Austrian part, the unintentioned brother, the RFW brother – and in total there are only 110 legal employees throughout the company, including office staff, cleaning and accounting, then I think something is wrong. This cannot be true, or the trucks are in the blind market only so that people can see how many trucks Mr. Kralowetz has and that they are as beautiful as the museum railways. So if this level of employment is right, then I have to say, it can't go that far. They say: I'm afraid this terrible slave work relationship. – But if you explain, we solve this on foreign law, then I have to say: This will never allow you to accomplish anything, because the slave in these employment relationships is just that there are no self-employed jobs! A brief search in Luxembourg at the company, also in the connex with the blue board councillor Kralowetz, has shown how these people are doing: They have broken the shares of this society into microscopically small particles. Then each of these, under quotation marks, "employees" from Slovakia, Hungary, from other countries must acquire such a share, and thus he is an independent entrepreneur. That this is a smooth circumvention and that the Luxembourg authorities have also not tolerated it, this should have been discussed sometime up to the researchers in Austria! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: bra Waidhofen...!]] I also wonder about the papers that have been used there. So, in the context of the indirect federal administration, within the scope of commercial law and so on, neither the district headquarters Amstetten nor the district headquarters St. Pölten have noticed that it must be hundreds of such working conditions only because of the size of the company, one has to say that the blue-black glasses have apparently gone into operation. And I'm already asking the question: Does this have to do with the fact that Mr Rainer Kralowetz, who has not been detained, is just a liberal board of directors? Federal Minister! One last – my colleague Eva Lichtenberger has already pointed this out –: We are receiving very alarming messages from Luxembourg, which seem to be dealing with this matter in the very manner of the process: We look at the right of foreigners, and we fall on the "illegal" – under quotation marks! Which companies are who they belong to and how they are intertwined, we prefer not to touch it – it could be liberal chamber councils. Mr Federal Minister, is it true that you want to have the names, the data of these stranded and not detained drivers, but only mediocrely stuck drivers, in order to have them stamp a ban on staying in their papers? If so, then do so so so that they can't come back, because they might know and perhaps say something bad about Mr Kammerrat, the Blue Chamber Council. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It's a very last one. The motto of Kralowetz is: "Alwayss on the move". – When I think of the Rosenstingl brothers, I fear we will soon get a postcard from Brazil.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16515	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. I'm willing to put the clock at 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16536	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I have no sympathy for the black sheep in the milling industry because illegal employment and criminal activities are distorting competition. [[Call the Greens: Blue! With the "blue" sheep!]] Maria Theresia has abolished Sippenhaftung, and it remains today. I don't take the blues into the Sippenhaftung for a member of the chamber, because it is – perhaps allegedly – a black sheep. [[Abg. Edlinger: A "blue" sheep!]] Mrs Bures, you have criticized the need for the EIA to ask yourself what she has done and why nothing has happened. – The fullness of the procedures you then set out in detail are the best proof that this Federal Government has done something very well and that the authorities have worked efficiently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Deputies Öllinger and Dr. Lichtenberger: What?- Oh, my God!]] By the way, the ÖVP protects the properly working eaters and, in principle, saves itself from throwing them all into a pot. Mr Vergestnitsch! To say that 80 percent of the supporters are going illegally, working with law violations is a very bold claim. When you consider that the ÖBB are the largest eaters in Austria, I have to say that you have also filled the ÖBB very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The Black Labour Act, repeatedly quoted by the Social Democrats, was then a quick shot against fundamental rights. [[Abg. Bures: A unanimous decision! Cushion and Bartenstein have agreed!]] It contained a large number of rights of action. Mr Vergestnitsch, explanations are not law, and if the legal text of the Rules of Procedure is normized in the paragraphs of the Rules of Procedure, without the need for a judicial house search order, this is a massive attack on fundamental rights, which we have not agreed here in this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Bures: Bowl has agreed!]] Today's debate is not only a foreign employment problem, it is probably also about gang and organised crime. In my opinion, dubious company braiding, which extends across Europe, now leads the suspicion of crime in the field of tow, in connection with the exploitation of foreigners, leads to suspicions of tax offences, social security abuses, labour-time rest violations, violations of foreign rights and workers' rights and probably other offences. I cannot, of course, approve of this in any way, but, Mrs Petrovic, I trust the executive that she has done the right thing during the confiscation. To put allegations in the room here, because a company may not be inferior to the seizure, I think at the time to be premature, because there should not be a formal error in the way that there may then be no condemnation of the real criminal machinations. I would like to thank the Minister of the Interior and his colleagues for the consistent and rapid operation and also for the Vorarlberg officials who have put the stone in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The increase in penalties is one thing, but I believe that this must be accompanied by a loophole in foreign law among the offences. In fact, at present we have normized the tow industry – that is, the illegal inclusion of persons – and in § 105 the exploitation of the aliens, that is, those strangers who are already there. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's wrong!]] We will need to complement this in order to prevent the related emergency caused by it or to prevent exploitary employment. At the heights of punishment, Germany would have much higher penalties than we do, is not appropriate in this particular case. I believe that our administrative criminal law is more painful, because in administrative criminal law the cumulation principle applies, and the same offences committed more often by several workers sum up high. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: 20,000 S is not painful, he pays from the Portokassa! Mrs Colleague, this is naïve!]] I assume that in this plethora of crimes, a sentence of two-digit millions will come out, not just a fine of money or a sentence of liberty, as under German law. In our case, the imprisonment would be imposed in addition to that. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: 20,000 S!]] Mrs. Colleague! Explorers It considers the difference between the principle of absorption in the Criminal Code and the principle of cumulation in administrative criminal law. Then you know, even if the penal framework is limited by 20 000 s, there may be a penalty in millions if this crime has been committed a thousand times. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Your own criminal record!]] Mrs Lichtenberger, we will not unreflected increase the penal framework, but will close the gaps in foreign law. Such a gap was the European driver's card. The "Frachterinnung" already required this driver's card to be introduced in Austria in 1998. The then Minister Hostasch rejected this. If we had introduced them then these cases would not have occurred.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16715	The next speaker is Mr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16742	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Some Members of this House and members of the Federal Government want to sell us, I think, for stupid sales. The impression was given here as if it were the current results that lead to these decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to the Federal Government to draw attention to this problem in January/February 2000. [[The speaker keeps up to date a package of files, which is intertwined with a red silk band.]] [[Call out to the liberals: a red mesher!]] We are in favour of having asked numerous questions on this issue, including the Minister of State Dr. Strasser. If he says today that legislative measures are necessary, comprehensive controls must be carried out, then I must say, my very dear. Ladies and gentlemen: In 2001, the same Minister gave us a completely different answer. Federal Minister! You're unbelievable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I quote from the answer to this question. In this context, it refers to the question of legislative deficits: Minister of State Dr. Strasser: "I do not see at all the need for additional legal provisions according to the information available to me." That's the truth. For the absences are: You're responsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me focus on two aspects. One aspect already surprises me, that everything is happening in Lower Austria at the moment. What's in Lower Austria lazy? What's this ÖVP doing? – BSE case, veterinary scandal, tax fraud and promotion fraud, re-labelling of meat in bio-meat, illegals in the slaughterhouse of Großharras, and a parliamentarian hiding under their immunity. The Frächtter scandal, ladies and gentlemen, is also from Lower Austria, and for this the head of state is responsible, namely the head of state Dr. Pröll. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Now I'm telling you the following: There's a request from me regarding the barber resistance, the free trade of driving with trucks. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Explain to me why the Slovak riders who were handcuffed had a commercial right! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: "Consum", Häupl, Vienna!]] There is a decree from the Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein, in which he pointed out that these commercial rights are void. The Heads of State or Government have been invited to withdraw these commercial rights. Now I'm wondering, What happened to these Slovak drivers in Waidhofen on the Thaya? When did they receive these commercial rights, and in what form did the head of state of Lower Austria proceed against the wrongful commercial rights? – Dear to me Ladies and gentlemen! Head of State Dr. Pröll has an absolute need for explanation! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is abuse of power!]] [[Abg. Kiermaier: He's mostly in the ORF!]] Let me briefly address the freedom of reference to this questioner scandal. Mr. Karl Augustin is a member of the Free Trade Association, and according to press reports he is funding Jörg Haider. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Karl Augustin was recently sentenced by the Independent Administrative Senate in Salzburg in 30 cases for illegal employment. Do you know his trick? – He has a subsidiary in Hungary, the so-called SAL-TRANS, eleven trucks and 65 handlebars. Short-term lease contracts with the Augustin Europe Group have been concluded – short-term lease contracts that have been unlawful under Hungarian law and have only served in Austria to camouflage and deceive the Austrian authorities. Take note of this! This man is a member of the Freedom-Economics Ring. Another example: a kilometre rewarder. There is a basic wage between 1 800 S and 2 600 S, then there is a kilometre money of 1.30 S for the hanger and for the train at 1.60 S. My very dear ladies and gentlemen! This is then converted so that it looks correct, namely, according to the collective contract rules, and with that one goes back to the tax and manipulates the payment of wages. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In this scandal, the government parties are in it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Up to both ears!]] It is to be questioned what happened in Lower Austria. The Freedom Party should go into itself and wonder if such officials are still bearable. At least we thank ourselves for this collective suicide, for this kneeshot. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, you'll be "humbling" by then.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16869	The next speaker is Mr Wattaul. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e16890	Mr President. Minister! Yes, it is true that there are massive abuses in the transport industry, which can be clearly claimed. I must also say, Mrs Lichtenberger, that I am very grateful to you for saying that I am working in the Chamber of Commerce and I know all the fans who are right. I also have different information. And this is exactly what I have prepared for the Minister of the Interior and given to the Minister of the Interior. That's why we're going to react now – there's been a lot of discussions in the ministries – and that's why we're going to figure out why so much is being discovered – we know the background as well. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Since then nothing has happened! That is why those punishments have been lowered.]] I am the one who is the transport operator who has driven trucks himself, and I know exactly how to act in this sector. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You only know it from hearing and from any illustrated, but from the facts, how it really goes on the market, you have no idea. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: I'm not a long-distance driver! I confess!]] I would like to explain to you on a point of order what happened. When the Iron Curtain fell, a lot of people went abroad, especially large fishers, to Luxembourg. Luxembourg tolerates postcard companies and the registration of trucks, so you can register employees, barbers, from third countries. There's nothing to pay there. But what happened there? – They drove, but only not in Luxembourg. At the EU accession of Austria – now I come to speak in 1995 – licences for the vehicles have been granted. But what did you forget? – The labour market has not been regulated. That is, Austria cannot control which people employ a Luxembourg entrepreneur. That's not our responsibility. That is why the situation as it is now has come to pass. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: But if he is in Austria, already!]] I can tell you one thing: Everything that was said here that people are being exploited is right. But this is not in the interest of the Austrian fishermen, because they are no longer competitive anymore. That's the problem. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want these things to be turned off. In other words, you are no longer competitive at international level, which is perfectly clear: When an Austrian farmer regularly logs in, an employee costs between 60,000 and 70,000 s, whereas a barber costs only 20,000 s. That is why we do not need a regulation that applies only in Austria, but we need an EU-wide scheme, and that is why we want the EU driver's licence. – Mrs. Lichtenberger! Don't do that, I've told you all this before, but you always forget everything. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Write it down to her!]] On the controls: Minister! You said there were three ministries affected. I think the most important thing you've forgotten is the Ministry of Finance. That's also affected. One should do it as much as in Germany, there is the BAG. There are 90 officials working in Bavaria alone, and we have only three officials in Innsbruck. That doesn't work, of course. We need effective control. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Because Straster threw everyone out! Grasser with tramper!]] I would ask you to support this request, which we are making today, because I believe that only in this way can we bring it together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] Mrs. Lichtenberger! Everything doesn't do anything, but what the SPÖ has done in the last 30 years was nothing, because they only brought it so far that the industry is now on the ground because it hasn't been traded. This is the true community. They stand here, accuse the abuses and say that this may be a political problem. I can tell you one thing: It is not a problem that lies only with the sparklers, nor a problem of the party. This concerns every industry. Look Once you get to it – my colleague Sodian will then tell you how the construction industry is going – then you will see what dimensions this has in the case of possible Easter expansion. If we do not create rules now, that will be no longer to be regulated after the enlargement of the East. You have to think about that.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17011	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17032	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on the statements made by Mr Lichtenegger - apologise - and Dr Petrovic. [[Call the Greens:Lichtenberger!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Always the same, Minister!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Once again, a debate on internal security unfortunately took place on the part of representatives of the Greens with a deep distrust of the officials of the Interior. I expressly and deeply regret that some of the Members of the House, in principle, are thinking about what might have been wrong when it comes to any commitment our gendarmerie and police officers have made. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] I am extremely sorry that repeated debates have not succeeded in creating confidence between some Members and the Austrian Federal Executive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: This is an under stand, Mr. Minister!]] I would also like to make it clear here: If there's a misbehavior in the police or in the Gendarmerie, we'll check every point. But I would like to ask you to consider: As officials often work using their lives, officials work on behalf of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as officials secure traffic under life-threatening circumstances, and they deserve to be supported by the representatives of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to express my express thanks to those Members of the House who understand the hard work of the Federal Executive and also express this in their statements of speech. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Minister! That's extremely unfair what you're doing!]] To Mrs Petrovic: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) They assume here from this speaker's desk that our officials would have been in any form partial in this process. I reject this with all determination and with great clarity. I can really ask you – and it is very serious to me – that if you have any reasonable suspicion, you give us this information along with the documentation. We're going to look at each of these suspicions, because it can be natural that there's some kind of misbehaviour. But I would ask you to take this overall statement, that it would have been partyized, either to clarify it, or, if that is not to be specified, to take back this accusation.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17132	Mrs Lichtenberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please comply with the Rules of Procedure. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17165	Mr. Minister! In my speech, you have made it clear to me that you have mistrust of the officials working on the street. – This submission was and is wrong! On the contrary, I have stressed that I would like to inform you whether the information is correct, that we work primarily on the deportation or on a residence ban for the long-distance drivers who are now stranded in Luxembourg. [[Calls:This is not a correction]] That was my question. The officers on the street were not mentioned by me.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17197	Another corrective step has been taken by Mrs Dr Petrovic. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17222	Federal Minister! You have claimed that I would have generally submitted to you or to your department and to your staff. – This is incorrect! I asked two specific questions. The first question was: Why have parts of this company complex, which I have described, been excluded from a file confiscation, although I think there are intensive interdependences? The second question was whether it was actually planned to prove the drivers who had been detained in Luxembourg with a ban on their stay. I have asked these two questions – that is something different from the accusation of the party. I notice: These questions have not been answered.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17258	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. The remaining speaking time of the Green Group is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! We have no reason at all to distrust the officials of the Ministry of the Interior. But we have every reason in the world to distrust their political superiors, and I will also make that objectively clear in my speech. 5. April 1989: Fruit juice concentrate, diesel oil and chemicals of a variety have transported a low Austrian freight company with the same tank vehicle, and often the container between the different vehicles has not even been washed out. This scandal has flown after extensive surveys by the Lower Austrian Security Directorate. On their agreement, the drivers of the company stated that there were virtually constant movements. They also admitted that they had falsified customs documents on behalf of the company. An advertisement was refunded against the Managing Director of the company from Blindenmarkt, Karl Kralowetz. 1989 – Security Directorate for the Federal State of Lower Austria: Even then we had no reason to distrust the officials in Lower Austria. But there is a question to the Federal Minister for the Interior: Why could the "black" sheep Karl Kralowetz, who was managing director of the "blue" sheep Rainer Kralowetz, continue? Why was he able to continue his illegal business with his family and political connections unimpeded to this day? Why has neither a minister of the economy nor an interior minister put himself in his way? Why are black entrepreneurs covered in this Republic? - Just because they're blue entrepreneurs?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Such a fool! That's paradox!]] Why does the principle that there is a black worker behind every black worker suddenly become the principle that almost all black workers are blue entrepreneurs? Federal Minister! Why are you unable to really deal with the "blue" sheep in the industry with all the consequences? Why do all ten and twenty years of the same entrepreneurs have to be displayed and possibly condemned with the cross-links to the FPÖ, and why does ten years, 20 years later, the same entrepreneur with the same political links with a new offence come back to the police and probably again before the judge? – These are the open questions. And finally, the question is to answer: Why are black blue entrepreneurs or blue black entrepreneurs covered by the politicians of the Austrian People's Party? [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Collaborator Pilz! Life-long must stay alive or not?! Is that an agreement now?]] Now only two comments. Firstly, one thanks to the Freedom Party for the confession of Mr Wattaul. The confession that he had always known everything about the industry may have qualified him as one of the most important witnesses to the investigations of the prosecutor. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] The prosecutor's office needs people who know the industry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Wattaul! The prosecutor's office needs you, and with your help and on the basis of the testimony of the Minister of Transport and on the testimony of the head of the Free Economic Association, the Free Trade Association, excuse – in this Republic sometimes everything really gets confused – it will be possible to explain this crime as well. [[Call the SPÖ:The Freeman!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: If someone said you were a communist citizen, what would you say? What would you say if someone said that?]] Mr Federal Minister, that is why I have a last final request: Don't just go against black workers! These are those who suffer from the same circumstances as their legally employed colleagues. Finally, go against the black entrepreneurs, even if they do not have a black but a blue party book from time to time and more often from time to time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17370	The next speaker is Mr Sodian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17391	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, even if you repeatedly say it is the untruth, Mr Augustin is not a member of the Freedom Party or the RFW. It's already been demented by us. Please note! Even if you say it again and again: It's wrong. He's not a member of the RFW. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] On Mr Pilz's accusations to Mr Rainer Kralowetz: On the Internet there are very, very much information. I'd like to tell you very soon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures]] So far, Mr. Karl Kralowetz is one of the suspects – so far, the suspicion of innocence is valid. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would like to stress one thing: Mr Rainer Kralowetz has put all his things on the Internet. However, if I say so quite clearly, let me speak out! [[new calls to the SPÖ]] – Suspect moments and evidence that Mr Rainer Kralowetz has acted unlawfully, I am one of the first to agree that this will naturally be persecuted and punished with all hardness. [[Abg. Bures: You did that at the Rosenstingl...!]] That's not a question at all. That's what the whole party stands for. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Vergestnitsch! Where was and where is a similar call, as can be heard now with regard to the food industry, regarding the construction industry? - It's been known for years. I heard the only scream in December when it was called: 60,000 unemployed construction workers! – And this has been a false information. Everyone knows that we had very, very many unemployed construction workers on the basis of the many snows – tourism has been happy – and the low temperatures in December. In the years before, we were able to get through mild weather until the 23rd century. ==References== That's one of the reasons for the difference. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let us take a closer look at the construction workers' industry. Everyone knows that the price situation in the construction sector is a disaster – this has been known for years. Why is that so, and what will this have? We know that construction companies today can no longer clean themselves, apply a plaster that today the dash is no longer made by the construction companies, that today the facades are no longer isolated by the construction companies and no more windows are mounted. It's known. I have a construction company and therefore I know what I'm talking about. Why is that so? – Because there are only 100 S or 150 S percentages of labour costs to be calculated and everyone knows that this cannot be done properly and legally. But you keep silent about it, nothing is done! Why is nothing done? – We know that in these areas – embossed, facade, plaster – there is a proportion of foreigners over 70 percent and that many are not correctly reported in these companies. These people are not charged after hours, but very often after square meters. We know that there's an obvious abuse going on here. There are black workers in this area, illegally employed, leasing workers, and lately more and more the harvest workers are coming. [[Abg. Silhavy: You have decided!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – I say that this is an abuse, and this abuse belongs abandoned! I just want to explain. There will be initiatives. We know it is, but I do not want this to be limited to the freight industry, but in the construction and construction sector it is the same case. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Bures: With Mrs Rossmann in the hospitality also! There is also this with Mrs Rossmann in the hospitality industry!]] I can only give you an example: In my company, there are 38 employees who pay in to the building workers' holiday register. We pay 423,000 s per month only to the building workers' holiday register. That is, I pay 11 140 s per employee into the building worker holiday register – without social security contributions, without service contributions, without local tax! If you then know that today wage shares are calculated by only 50 to 60 S, then you realize that this can never and never happen. The evidence that it's just as sick in the construction industry is there, but where's the call? And that's what I'm going to blame you for. Where are the works councils, where are the trade unions? Where was the call? Even today, there was none in this context. It is only about the eaters – supposedly blue or black eaters; no matter, it doesn't matter which party the eaters belong to. It is an abuse, and this abuse should be stopped, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The trade union and the chambers have to be behind it, because this will result in job losses, and competitors who offer serious offers will be driven into bankruptcy. There is a blatant distortion of competition. We must work together to change that, to fight it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We see the examples in the Federal Republic of Germany. I know very much, very many companies that are no longer able to employ German workers in the border area with Poland, where Poland is working, whether legal or illegal. There is a very, very high proportion of Polish construction workers there. And we are on the best way to get the same conditions in Austria. The punishments we have in this area today are really ridiculous – I admit – and this is the result of this abuse. There's more control here, and it's really about the "black sheep". I am concerned because this is always being discussed, not about neighborhood aid. Neighborhood aid is only a very small part, and no one is interested in it. That is quite legal, and no one wants to change anything either. But let us not forget, because of the small share of neighborhood aid, the rest of 90 percent that is really controlled. [[Abg. Edlinger: That prevented the ÖVP! This has been prevented by Mr. Khol.]] I have over 200 construction sites a year and no control! And if you never have a control to fear, then the "black sheep" will become more and more, and we will get a whole flock. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I'll give you the right!]] To sum up, I would like to say that everyone is required here, both the trade unions and the chambers. I would ask you not to see this in political terms, because we must work together on a good and reasonable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17551	Next, Mrs Silhavy is speaking. Time left: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17572	I would like to take the opportunity to thank the government parties for the urgent request. In fact, it shows where the problems lie: On the one hand, there are the ties of the Freedom Party, on the other hand – which my previous speaker has just pointed out – blackwork is not only a problem of the milling industry, but has far greater dimensions. My previous speaker has also proved, Dr. Khol, that what you are doing is a pure excuse. They do not want to protect honest entrepreneurs, but they are protecting themselves from the criminal entrepreneurs. And that's to be despised! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How do you get to claim this?]] [[Abg. Haller: That's so ugly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé! Now I'm gonna tell you something: You have here quoted Dr. Schneider with 291 billion schilling as a size for the shadow economy. The Wifo indicates 100 billion schilling as a lower limit: This is due to the 47 percent tax rate – on this high percentage you have screwed them! – 47 billion schilling; 47 billion schillings, which do not affect you, which you leave on the road because you prevent appropriate control and a corresponding control body. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: How do you get to this idea, to this submission?]] However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, are not ashamed to tax at the same time accident pensions, introduce ambulance fees, increase recipe fees, run pension robbery. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is white nonsense!]] But there you leave the money on the street where it takes the economy for itself and runs unfair competition! Ladies and gentlemen! That cannot be the solution, and your request is not the solution either. My previous speaker proved it: It's not just about the milling industry. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Even faster! Faster!]] – Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, you mentioned this yourself today. You should confess if you're addressing something. You have so far failed to nominate the subcommittee, which you have decided to occupy at all, the people. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I am outraged by the assumptions! Incredible!]] They prevent the work here in this House with which we could finally do something against black entrepreneurs. They obviously protect black entrepreneurs, and this at the expense of the hardworking people in Austria who punish you with your measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17682	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Time left: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17712	Mr President. Minister! Before the vote, we should remember who the applicant is, because in this course of the debate we might have lost sight of this. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Just you!]] It is a government fraction on the run forward with the slogan "Hold the thief!" be caught. What we also want to maintain and what is very interesting in terms of control, is that the Federal Minister – she is not present – has put a whole bunch on the table, which has hardened the accusations made by Mr Wattaul. So, before we forget, we'll hold on to it. This is the first "driving self-admission" in the form of a request from a government group! I would ask that this be included in the next debate on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17748	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on Amendment No 589/A (E) tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Kiss, Mr President, on measures to combat the exploitation of illegally employed foreigners. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 122.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Evelin Lichtenberger, colleagues in the area of road transport control. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on immediate measures to combat social fraud. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - No! – This is still the minority. [[Call: We've already voted that]] The request is therefore rejected. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: (in the direction of the Freeman) Whoever last laughs, laughs best!]] [[Loud laugh at the liberals.]] Short debate on the response to the question 2987/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17837	We are now entering a brief debate on the question of the German Chancellor's reply to the order 2987/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I'm looking for Mrs Mag. Muttons to open the debate. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e17872	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With today's discussion of an answer to a question, we want to focus again on a subject that is of enormous importance to the cultural and economic location of Austria, but which has been treated very stepmotherly in recent years, namely the Austrian film and its promotion. When the blue-black German government declared the Austrian film to be the focus of its government programme quite exactly two years ago, the film industry and also interested observers were happy to have continued the path that had already been taken, namely a substantial increase in funding in order to enable reasonable framework conditions for Austrian film creation. After all, in normal language, one interprets the term "focus" in order to pay special attention to a topic or special attention or a special promotion. As it turned out relatively quickly, the black and blue government understood something quite different under the term "focus", namely "heavy..." for strenuous and "point" for static, not moving from the place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One went freely according to the motto: How do I manage to meet the life nerve of an important industry in the shortest time through absolute inactivity? But I have to correct myself: The black and blue Federal Government was not so inactive. After all, it has managed, in particular, to convey its low appreciation to the Austrian film industry through its omissions in the matter and due to appropriate statements, and thereby to cause a huge image damage to it and to create a climate of hopelessness, anger and despair among the film-makers, because the film-makers in this area really have to work under very bad working conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What answer were you not satisfied with?]] In addition to the atmospheric deterioration, the massive reduction of the federal financial commitment to film financing came. You, Mr State Secretary – I do not know if You forget about it or whether you have pushed it out – repeatedly here in the House called for an increase in the means of film funding. In the government the tactic of the chancellor is quite different, and he says: EU funds are intended to compensate for the lost domestic budget for film financing – we speak of 38 percent of the funding that has been lost. Of course, there is nothing against this attempt to lubricate EU funds for Austrian film, Mr State Secretary, but this should be done in addition to national film promotion, and not instead. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you not like about this answer?]] In addition, you should not forget, however, that the European funding, which Austria needs only to make use of – the money lies on the streets in Brussels, according to your statements – requires an appropriate national funding, because all these programmes stand and fall with a national share. This is a simple and simple bill: The more the national share available is cut down, the less money there is in Brussels. Now a not quite insignificant detail on the edge that you mentioned was not worth mentioning: As a rule, the EU does not provide funds for actual film production, but provides funds for rental, sales, project promotion, training, promotion, that is, only structurally building and structurally sustainable work. When discussing the promotion and non-promoting of domestic film productions, it should be predicted that the production of cinematographic films without funding is no longer possible in Europe. For example, if you look at the statistics, you will be able to find out: The small country of Denmark, with five times as much funding, also supports Sweden, and I do not want to talk about Germany and France, because there are twenty to thirty times as many funds there. Your statements, Mr State Secretary, are as follows: What do I start with a producer who does not take money and does not take his own risk, except that he devotes himself to a beautiful task for three months?, or, as a second example, a statement of you, in which you speak of overcapitalization by public means or ground zero financing in the private sector, disqualify itself. I don't know, but it seems to be disinterest, incomprehensibility, or simply intentional discrediting of the native filmmakers. In the Argen, however, is not only the production of cinematographic films, but also the production of orders, which is at least 90 percent of the Austrian production volume. There the ORF is an important client, even the most important client, one can say. But what the effects of the black and blue media policy on the ORF mean, I cannot do this at all, because this would take a lot of time to talk about. [[Abg. Großruck: A woman is General Intent Dantin for the first time!]] – Unfortunately, this is not the subject. [[Abg. Großruck: Oh, yes, that's a topic!]] Just so much: I remember that due to your government's media policy, there will be a decline in production, in the ORF's order budget, and with this the filmmakers come into a double sheer: There is less public budget for film promotion, and there are fewer budgets in the ORF for order production. So this is a very complex problem, and this concerns the whole industry: It is about the production of orders, but it is also about the situation of the rental and cinema scene – and this should not be forgotten. A Gustopückerl – because you always want to know details from the answer, I do not want to keep it from you – is the answer to questions 3 and 4. You can read this. Unlike in some other European countries, in addition to interim financing, Austrian banks see themselves as the wrong contact point for film financing, which is hardly surprising. If the state currently considers the Austrian film to be as unpromoting as one hears it over and over again, why should banks be particularly involved? However, it would be important to win the Austrian banks as partner banks, because the film producers cannot make direct use of these funds. In concrete terms, then, there is really much to be done in this area. The answer of the former Minister of Economic Affairs and current Chancellor Schüssel is that every bank in which a film maker has an account is automatically involved in the financing of the media and film sector. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Automatic" is not in the answer! "Principally" stands in there!]] If I were to continue this and carry it to another level, that would mean that the bank would finance the car industry if it gave someone a credit for the car purchase. [[Abg. Böhacker: But "automatic" is not inside!]] If I look closely at the answers that have been given very sluggish and cynical, then I can only say: Obviously, the film is really worth nothing to you. The internationally respected successes of the Austrian film such as "Hundstage" or "Die Klavierspielerin" have been achieved despite the film promotion of the current German government. Why? – Because films have such a long lead that film financing took place long before 2000. With this escape of the blue-black coalition from its responsibility for an important cultural and economic asset – we have repeatedly called for a survey to be held at which businessmen and filmmakers sit at a table, but that will, as you yourself know, be dragged away – with this escape from responsibility for the film, this government proves that it has no visions in one of the most modern and innovative areas. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] Thus, in addition to education, another area of the future has now fallen victim to the dogma of the zero deficit. I would like to draw attention to this. I'll invite you to: Look You can answer the questions yourself once again! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18018	The speaking time of the Members who have been notified from now on shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Morak spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18045	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As many of you know, since I took office, but also before, I have pointed out the importance of film as a European subject. Since then, of course, I have safeguarded the interests of the Austrian film. The frequency of work on this subject at EU level shows the importance and confirms my position. In times when Hollywood is flooding us – by the way, the TV programs, my gracious wife! – we should look beyond our own edge of the plate. We will only be able to achieve the most important impulses for the domestic film in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us start with the EU funding programmes: One of my first efforts was to speak in the context of the follow-up programme of Media II, Media Plus, a budget increase of € 310 million to € 400 million and reach it. After long discussions, not least due to the persistence of the Austrian position, the increase in funds could be made at the Council of Ministers for Culture in Brussels on 23 March. ==References====External links== This means that we can manage more than €1.5 million each year for Austrian film production. At the European Council level, the European film programme EURIMAGES has also been increased and is now about €13 million. Here too, we can lubricate significant return flows for Austria, more than €500 000 a year. With regard to the initiative of the European Commission and the European Investment Bank Group "i2i Audiovisual", I recently contacted Mr Munini of the European Investment Bank to draw his attention to the difficulty of using this programme for smaller countries, so to say to him the very small volume of investment in these countries. You see, ladies and gentlemen, that I was very likely to represent the position of Austrian film producers in front of the right bodies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me now come to those measures, which you obviously did not follow, ladies and gentlemen, that is why I would like to tell you – which we have put at national level. [[Call the SPÖ: Read it?]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Do you create it without the paper without the documents?]] With paper, yes! – In addition to the normal budget last year, it was possible to invest more than € 2 million for targeted impulses in the field of film. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Haven't you read?]] The aim was to set sustainable accents without taking away other cultural events, as was the case with the famous film millions of the chancellor climate, without any structural effects being achieved. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Speak freely!]] On the other hand, we have set important accents in the areas of short film, young film and film heritage. In the field of film heritage, a new study center for the film is created through cooperation with the state of Lower Austria in Krems. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Mr. Actor! Talk freely!]] Deputy Pilz! The film museum and the film archive are also included in this. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Learn the text before! First learn the text, and then presuppose it here! Don't read the text in plenary, Mr. Actor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Pilz) Why are you so grotesque?]] A new warehouse is being built in Laxenburg, which solves the acute storage problems of film archive and film museum. The federal government makes 872,074 € available for this purpose. The deficient film museum was also discharged. Due to the great success of the Austrian film, it seems important to me to facilitate the introduction for the young Austrian filmmakers. That's why the Austrian Film Institute has a further €726,728, which is 10 million schilling, available for the young film. The short film, which is an essential element of Austrian filmmaking, is intended to be further promoted and marketed. For this purpose, the short film distribution SIXPACK received additional € 72 672. Furthermore, the "small film funding" of the Federal Chancellor's Office has been increased from € 872,000 to €1 090 000. In order to strengthen the cinema operators who present an ambitious programme – with short and experimental films, valuable Austrian and European productions – to their audience, there is a cinema initiative worth € 145 000. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Nicely read!]] At the same time, I believe it is important to address a cinema audience which, in the future, To secure survival of our cinemas. Children and young people are not only an interesting target group for the film industry, but also deserve more attention in the sense of media education and media education. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Pleased to emphasize! Don't read so fast!]] Therefore, an additional funding of € 145 000 has been granted to the professionally recognized rental and cinematographic operators for the better distribution and reception of children's films. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Read more slowly!]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== Dr. Pilz) Listen faster!]] Through my initiative, a study in community with the Filmproducer Association, the Chamber of Commerce and the Austrian Film Institute is in preparation, which is similar to the example of the Swiss study "Switzerland Film Industry and Film Promotion: Economic importance and European comparison" will highlight the Austrian film scene in economic aspects. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: That was very nicely emphasized!]] For example, the final success of the Austrian filmmakers in Saarbrücken is to be taken as an occasion for stating that budget and success and quality are not always directly related. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: You see, slowly reading is much more beautiful!]] Barbara Graftner has for her film "My Russia" received the Max Ophül's prize. This production has been achieved without public subsidies. It was produced as part of the film academy. I say, however, that the old film advisory board has rejected this production three times. The old film advisory board was still put together in the black and red coalition. At the time, Wittmann was responsible for this. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm loading You like to start the dialogue with me, which is about the Austrian film. My door is open for it day and night. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I have never seen you! - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18287	The next speaker was Mr Wittmann. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18309	High house! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all: The answer to our question by the Federal Chancellor has actually done nothing but what we expected, namely total ignorance, and not even an approach to dealing with matter. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The applicant! Total ignorance of the questioners!]] I would like to point out: In your government statement, you claimed that the film was the focus of attention. I can only tell you: All cultural creators tremble at a declaration of priority by you. 38 percent reduction in the funding budget – 38 percent! I would like to praise the Westenthaler Member, who said from the outset: We're halving the cultural budget! At least he was honest. You have also done this, although you have said you raise it, you set a focus, you want the film to be promoted accordingly. They promised us fiscal arrangements for the acquisition of equity. They promised us venture and risk capital funds. – Nothing has happened! Two years we were comforted. We have asked for a survey, which will be postponed month after month, because you are unable to offer some concept to promote the domestic film industry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They are trying to talk at the European level. That's the last way out, the last excuse you can ever think of. They tell of any programmes at European level. We all know that these programmes are only legible if they are co-financed by local and Austrian funding. In other words, if you delete co-financing in Austria, you will not be able to obtain funding at European level. This will block you from the next path for this creative production industry. I think you are totally separate from European development. All other countries know that by digitising the media they need content that the production industry of this content is one of the leading industries. But they do the opposite: No promotion, no structural measures, no fiscal measures to support this creative production industry, the way of the future, even in the approach! Mr State Secretary! Total failure in this area and empty promises, anointing words that sometimes sounded right semantically, but unfortunately the content completely missed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I just want to tell you one thing: If you are based on the film industry in this way, at a time when it has the greatest international success – all the international festivals with Austrian participation have been successful for Austrian films – if you prevent this approach and thus prevent the art-makers, the producers, the directors, the creative spirits of this country, so to speak, we will not only fail to do so financially and structurally, but will ultimately also contribute to the erodement of our own human resources. I think this is a serious accusation to be made to you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You once spoke to representatives of the film industry, and after the conversation with you, they made press releases under the title "Heimgeschrott" because they felt that you didn't just listen to them, but also tried to lower these creative spirits with sumptuous and cynical remarks. As has been said, every Austrian artist trembles about being declared a priority by you. Everyone knows what's ahead, everyone knows, then he really doesn't have a good time in this country: Reduction of promotion, displacement abroad, no reflection on new opportunities and, ultimately, excuses about excuses! You haven't done anything for two years. They have not even adopted cultural policies in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18378	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18399	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Political actionism does not help those concerned any more than the policy of announcement and demand, and - and I have to say this now after Mr Wittmann's speech - as well as the policy of advocating the old model. These attacks really go empty, because we are very interested in the success of the creative economy. It also happens a lot. But if you don't hear that, don't notice, don't register in any way – what do you want to do? We work differently, that's true. We work differently from you, because we take care of the framework conditions. Apart from what State Secretary Morak has previously listed as a positive change in facts in the European area, I would like to say that he has also been able to enforce in the EU at the beginning of October 2001 that the level of national State aid is being given greater consideration for the smaller states. Contrary to the Commission's approach, which allows only 50 percent of production costs to be exceeded, many films from Austrian producers are funded to almost 100 percent. That's how it looks! In addition, an improvement in the environment creates private television. – This is really a market opening measure and was a long-standing demand, among other things, of the Austrian producers. It's right that the film needs a lot of money. And it is also true that the cultural budgets as well as the budgets in other areas had to be reduced. All the more necessary is new design possibilities, creativity from all parties involved and also goodwill. It takes risk willingness from potential producers, private pre-financing from banks. – Mrs Muttonen, you have mis-quoted. They have put a quote in the mouth of the Secretary of State, which has actually come from the banks. The banks say that the producers are not prepared to take a "normal" risk, which is the case with every customer of a bank. Not least, tax measures are needed to raise the attractiveness of the location of Austria for the film industry. But all these are goals that cannot be achieved from today to tomorrow; The objectives on which we are already working, ladies and gentlemen, are most intensively being worked. One-off effects and short-term financial injections do not help, structural measures are needed. It is understandable that the art division of film, which, because of the enormous need for expensive technology, of staff, of time and so on, has always taken on a special position in the promotion of art, has in recent years become more and more urgent after a reorganisation of this kind of art promotion. But it seems equally understandable to me that there is no longer any state to do with simple old-style grants. The economically successful film is still an exception in Austria, even though Austrian films – we have heard some examples – have achieved great success recently. I mention Peter Cherkassky's short film "Outer space", which was awarded in Osnabrück – produced without a single funding schilling, you have to say that! Perhaps the opportunities for the economically successful film in Austria are better if our small market, for example, is expanded to include the European market. But back to the question: What's going on? A study has been commissioned at the request of the film industry; 1.6 million are already available from the BKA for this purpose, already parked. Together with the producer association and the Chamber of Commerce, this will take place for the thorough exploration of the film landscape of Austria. A Wifo study will soon be available as a general proof of rerouting profitability, market-economy benefits and so on, if investments in art and art production are favoured taxly, sponsoring. – A way of the future that is being worked on! Some of the work is already being done on recording the development potential of the domestic film industry, adapting film funding to changed conditions. Perhaps it would also be good if the countries sat at a table with regard to film promotion, because the extent and conditions of this page would certainly be rethinking. Nevertheless, now is not the time to hold a survey, because discussions alone do not bring us further. There is a need for concrete results – i.e. the study – and tax relief is needed. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] If these framework conditions, which are being worked on, are created and accessed, the Austrian film will certainly prevail not only on the Austrian market, but also on the European and international markets.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18464	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18486	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now, for the second time today, experienced a very lively colleague Wittmann here at the speaker's desk. Mr Wittmann. If you had only been half as alive as you were sitting on the government bank at the time, I think it would look better for the film industry in Austria. . This once for the vote in the debate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He only developed in the opposition!]] I think our concept is quite beneficial to yours. You can only call for more money in film promotion. This is a very simple socialist concept. It doesn't matter to the customer, it doesn't matter to the consumer how something is written, but it depends on getting as much out of the taxpayer's pocket as possible and then parking preferably in film promotion companies, such as in the Wega film or in the Dor movie, where the best connections to social democracy exist. – This is the socialist path of success! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I would like to say something to you, Mr Wittmann: They are perfectly right, never before has Austria had such great successes in the film industry or through film contributions, whether in Cannes or elsewhere where. That's what you've conceded here today. I do not want to say that this is an irrefutable proof of a great policy of the State Secretary, but it is at least a very strong indication and in no case a counter-proof that it does not work. So please, Mr Wittmann, where is it? Your sharp logic as a former lawyer? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Muttons: This is very blue-eyed!]] Of course, it is necessary to take fiscal measures. That was also the old roll, if you like, of the free cultural policy of the past legislative periods. We have always said that it is necessary to create tax incentives that it will also be necessary to enable venture capital constructions without the financial management then saying after seven years: It was from the beginning to see that this does not generate a total profit that is love, and that is why we have to delete everything. This is certainly very necessary and, as I know, very fruitful talks are under way between the Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Minister of Finance Grasser. This must continue because only by means of capital, which is also provided by the economy, can new impulses be created. My previous speaker, the esteemed colleague from the ÖVP, has already raised it very correctly: It is not always possible to demand that the public hand put the funding millions in place. The best supporter, the best guarantee of a film promotion, is the consumer; the consumer who is willing to pay for it, whether by buying admission tickets for the cinema, whether by looking at advertising and thus making a payment. Which party has for decades, for decades, prevented private television from happening in Austria? You know exactly, according to the Austrian private television law, the one in the licensing is preferred, which proves that it provides the greater share of Austrian contributions, so it is formally forced to invest in Austria. Who was that who prevented this? What was the party that was responsible for the media and which for decades prevented a private TV operator from being admitted to Austria, which would then appear as a demand for the film industry? Who was that? – That was the SPÖ! It was no coincidence that the position of the SPÖ media speaker was always linked to the position of the curatorial speaker in the ORF. The representatives of the SPÖ in the ORF Curatorium have seen themselves as members of the ORF, as representatives of the ORF. Of course, it was convenient for the ORF not to have a private competitor in Austria. It has been running prevention policy for decades. [[Abg. It's a smile, though.]] – Mr Commissioner, you are laughing, I understand that too, but I believe that in your laughter a little pity should be felt for your own colleagues, because it is not a piece of fame for Austria that private television only develops in us about 20 years later than in Germany. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I am very proud to be part of a government party that finally starts in Austria with private television 20 years after the start in Central Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18566	As the next speaker, Mrs Dr. Believable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18588	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. If the whole situation were not so sad and so gloomy, it would have been almost a comedy, Mr State Secretary! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What role do you play? The mint Naïve?]] It is incredible that for weeks and months we have been hearing from you the keyword "creative economy", which has served only a single purpose, namely the reduction of funding, the death saving of institutions. They have in no way contributed to the destruction of one of the most creative areas we have in Austria, one of the most economically successful areas we could have – and I deliberately say "destruction," Mr State Secretary! You have now listed a few examples of the successes in recent weeks and months. You spoke of the European initiatives, you spoke of the European Union, of the additional resources that lie there on the streets. But you didn't say one thing: Without Austrian national support, these funds remain on the streets! They prevent Austrian filmmakers and producers from coming to European money if you cut the funds by almost 40 percent in Austria. That's a very simple bill. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Another point on this keyword "creative economy". . I would really like us to discuss this seriously once, but you refuse the dialogue, you are not even willing to hold a survey in which we could talk about sensible measures, why it would be wise to invest in this area; I deliberately say "investment" rather than "providing subsidies". Your statements on the film, since you've been State Secretary, are terrifying. For example, they say: "The recent successes of the Austrian film show that especially on the basis of normal film promotion, extremely successful productions have been produced." – This statement cannot be surpassed by cynicism! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All productions, all the prices that have now been received from Austrian productions – without exception all! –, have support commitments still from the old federal government and not from this! I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They completely forget the timing in which this is happening. It is produced, films are filmed – that takes time. Not one of these successes is your success, Mr. Morak, not one of them. These are all successes from the time before! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You still have to say "scandal," that's what you say in every speech!]] I would like to say that this is really also a scandal for economic policy, if you are constantly using the keyword "creative economy" – I believe, Mr Westenthaler, you do not know what that is – to walk, but do not benefit from the opportunities in this area that there is. We are not only competing here with European film cities, but now Eastern European metropolises like Prague are also there to overtake us in the field of film industry – to overtake us! A few of the "Schmankerln" from this incredible film policy, which the State Secretary has carried out since his start of government, I quote from the field of the film industry, where the Wiener Filmfonds comment on statements by the State Secretary in the "Press". "Since all the claims made by the member of the government responsible for the Austrian film, State Secretary Franz Morak, are proven to be wrong and some of the statements are appropriate to discredit the Austrian film industry and the film-promoting institutions Vienna Film Fund and Austrian Film Institute to a large extent in the public, I see myself as managing director of the Wiener Filmfonds to express their views on this." You have to imagine this: There we have an industry that says that the competent State Secretary discredits and damages the Austrian film industry and the film-promoting institutions in the public! If this is to be the government's priority, I don't know, then I can only join the words: You really have to be afraid of being called out as a promotion focus. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another one that is very slanty in this area: Your support for Lower Austrian cultural policy. In the media this is commented: "Copless in Krems. – Krems receives a study center for film. Instead of a concept, Erwin Pröll and Franz Morakjedoch presented the cartoon of a concept." Here too, I would like to ask the question in the room: Why, for example, does this work so well with the country of Lower Austria? For example, Chief of State Pröll says: In the area of budget and funding, we work very well with the Secretary of State for Art. . I would like to say the presumption that this may be a party political proximity, that this may be consciously already in the direction of the Lower Austrian pre-election campaign. One prefers a country here in order to be able to present at certain times successes that can be relevant to an election campaign. This too has nothing to do with film politics! The last thing I'd like to say: Mr Morak, what really shocks me, is that you have presented the paper here. It is clearly not possible for you, in a free speech, to address this problematic situation of film policy in a responsible manner. I don't understand. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's crazy! A mad man!]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I don't understand. We cannot discuss film policy with you anywhere – not in committee, there is no survey on it, there is a complete refusal of dialogue. I would therefore like to make the following request: Application in accordance with § 92 para. 3 by Mrs Glawischnig, Members of the European Parliament The answer to Question 2987/AB to Question 2969/J is not taken into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18707	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I take the negotiations on points 4 to 7 of the agenda... [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What is this theatre, Mr. President?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No reason for excitement! The Croquis isn't right. It's coming right now. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: A scandal!]] I'll just interrupt the meeting until I get there.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18759	I'll start the interrupted session again. The Croquis is now available. [[Abg. Dr Pilz: Well pushed, Mr President.]] We are now voting on Amendment No 589/A (E) tabled by Mr Partik-Pablé, Mr Kiss, colleagues on measures against the... [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It's a merger in the Croquis! I apologise! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: This is a scandal!]] We now come to the vote on the request by Members Glawischnig, ladies and gentlemen, not to take note of Question No 2987/AB on Question No 2969/J. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. [[Call the Greens: Count! Count!]] Please stay on your seats, we will make the counting immediately! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just because the fungus has not yet learned to count, everyone has to count now! Please have a quick counting course for Mr. Pilz!]] The voices are counted by my co-chairmen and me. There are 69 votes to the motion and 62 votes to. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18849	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 4 to 7 of the agenda. Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18874	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Back from cultural policy to health policy and class struggle in health policy. What are the principles of Austrian health policy? The principles are free access to health care for all population groups, regardless of age, gender, social status, health status and place of residence. A second principle is the equivalence of the entitlement to supply. Based on these principles, under these conditions, it is very important to enable the diversity of services in the health field as well as to make it possible to co-operate with public and private providers. It is not about the constant effort of the class struggle in a consciousness in which the two-class medicine is always cited in complete ignorance, but it is about giving the powerful citizen the opportunity to choose and to promote and allow self-responsible handling of health. I therefore welcome the creation of the Private Hospital Financing Fund to improve performance transparency, improve performance documentation and improve quality assurance within the meaning of the patient. This is a logical development of hospital reform in the private sector; in the public sector, day-to-day funding has already been converted to service-oriented health care facilities. And that is one thing that is very important in the health system: a common planning horizon. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Finally, comprehensive health policy planning in Austria will be possible for hospitals both in the public and in the private sectors, so that, if quality criteria are not met – and this was the wrong opinion of some of my previous speakers – even sanctions mechanisms can enter into force. This means that this is a clear improvement in quality assurance and not a deterioration in quality assurance for the patient. This further reform, following the entire hospital reform already carried out, guarantees choice, quality and significantly more security for all sick people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18928	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e18949	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to limit myself in my contribution to the request made by our group on legal provisions for increased quality assurance in the use of blood and blood products, because I think that it is necessary to pay particular attention to the blood as a "life juice" – more precisely described by many poets and poets. I believe that quality assurance is a matter of particular concern in the health sector, namely quality assurance for all consumers who use public health services. I would like to argue against my previous speaker because she meant that we should not speak here of class struggle, of a two-class medicine et cetera. Now all consumers are given the option, i.e. they can choose which hospital they want to be treated in. I would like to add that funds have been deducted from the public sector to the private sector by the Blue-Black Federal Government. I think this option will only have those who can afford it. We are far away from one another, from a balanced purchase of services. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to the blood. I think each of you has five or six liters of blood. Many consumers prefer to take precautions with their own blood due to the scandals that have occurred in the past decades and have their own blood deposited in blood banks. I think that there is a risk of quality security, including for the donors and donors in self-blood care. We want to achieve this safety for patients with a continuous electronic documentation. This continuous electronic documentation is necessary so that it can be precisely identified that the blood comes from Mr. A or Mrs. X, and that the blood will then be provided to Mr. A or Mrs. X in the appropriate way, without any pickles being able to dissolve or confusion. We have called for this in the Committee, and we also demand that this electronic perceptibility be made possible by the end of 2002. The Secretary of State has indicated in the Committee that he sees this as an essential criterion and understands our concerns, but has meant that this should still be matured. Now I ask you, Mr State Secretary: How long do you want this to mature? As long as it has produced a moldy cheese, or as long as other scandals or confusion occur? There are many if and but, from the technical implementation to the financial allocation of costs to the competence of the countries you have delegated. I think it would be important for many consumers to implement the law of action and not lamentation in this important area for greater patient safety, especially on health safety issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19006	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19027	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The private health insurance fund has three main objectives. First of all, the free choice of doctor for each patient. I believe that this must be at the heart of every health care professional. Secondly, from a day-to-day rate one comes to a performance-oriented bill, exactly the same as the public hospitals according to LKF points. And thirdly, to minimize the financial disadvantages of some socially insured patients – not from the private insured, but from someone who goes to a doctor who works in a private hospital and where I, as a socially insured patient, have received less return for the same performance than at the same performance in a public hospital. If we are talking about a two-class medicine here, I would like to ask if it is justified from your point of view that a person, with or without private insurance, should pay for the same performance once and for a while less. Is that fair? – Although this difference has not been eliminated, it has been reduced. It is not about setting up hospitals where only private insured persons can go. That's how you could have understood the opposition. Not at all! It is about the fact that, because of his contribution, which he pays just as much as everyone else, a social insurer has a right to receive the benefits claimed as any other person. A two-class medicine is then, if that is not guaranteed, why we have prevented it from coming to a two-class medicine today and here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It seems essential to me that quality control, which is of course necessary, has also been introduced at the same time. However, I would like to take a brief look at what Mr Greenewald said to the doctors. They all know that the doctors have announced from Friday, that they will make "service according to prescription" and work a maximum of 13 hours, as the doctor's working time law allows. I am optimistic, assume that they will be agreed before Friday, and I would like to point out that the most pressing problem in reaching agreement is the problem of the young doctors and that Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has already provided training for every doctor from her budget in 2000 S. I also hope and expect Mrs Vice-Chancellor and, in particular, Mr Finanzminister to look at the situation of the young doctors who have been trained in the expected solution. I assume that the negotiations will be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19079	As the next speaker, Mrs Huber spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19101	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Our criticism was obviously not so unwarranted when I looked at Christoph Kotanko's comment in the "Kurier", which is surtitled with "Main of the helpless Herumdoctor". I have just missed this contribution. For example: "This reality," namely, that it is ill at all corners and ends, "and other facts (according to Kärntner Medical Chamber, many benefits can no longer be granted to the insured) the government refuses. Instead of health policy, priority is given to personnel policy." – I don’t think it’s any more to add to it. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] I would also like to refer once again to our request for quality assurance of blood and blood products. It is a request which has been thoroughly defiled by the government parties in the Committee. You really can't talk about any ideology, because I mean, the safety of blood, the safety of patients must be our concern for God's sake! Today, Mr State Secretary, in plenary, you mean that this blood security law we have is modern and therefore entirely sufficient. However, in the Committee you have still seen the need for action in this area. They have even reported that systems that ensure complete quality assurance from production to transport, storage to use, are tested, i.e. systems that guarantee continuous electronic perceptibility. Nevertheless, this request has been rejected. This is an example of how you deal with the opposition and with applications of the opposition. You may not care if patients are infected with infectious diseases! There should be agreement in this House on the fact that all possible sources of danger are switched off and that the highest possible safety for patients must be ensured; and there are a number of sources of danger that are always evident. There is the danger source of personnel, where we think there must be more education and training in terms of hygiene. There is a risk source of medical instruments. Hygiene regulations and germination procedures in hospitals and health facilities need to be critically tested, as there is a risk of infection by the fact that new and other instruments, especially for buttonhole surgery and endoscopy, are on the market, but without the corresponding hygiene regulations and without the appropriate de- germination devices. Due to the new cases of hepatitis C infections, the lack of quality assurance in self-blood care has also become visible. My colleague, Mr Lapp, has already mentioned this. So there is a need for action, and the technical possibilities for doing so are also available. But why, I ask you, is there no common knowledge in this area with a view to greater security? Voices To our request for the benefit of patients who need blood transfusions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19159	The next speaker is Mrs Wachslander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19180	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I really have been following the debates very closely all day. One thing I have to say: My respect, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially from the SPÖ: Your prepotence about forgetting what you left behind is already a strong piece! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You can save yourself your teachings, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Owl: Let yourself be treated when you're ready!]] Speak out when you're in front! Now listen – and don't just read paper! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I also have something to say about the Private Hospital Finance Fund Act. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You started!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] Wonderful! Do I get a call for order when the rulers get so upset? - No! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You started with that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Do I have no right to express my opinion? Excuse me! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Then you didn't listen!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19301	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19316	The statements of the opposition by the "Two-Class Medicine", which has already been strongly criticized in the Committee of Mrs Csörgits and here "of course" by every SPÖ speaker, are a farce! That's not the case! On the contrary: This fund law will bring many reliefs and, above all, be of great importance to the overall Austrian health system. In this context, only a few words: Cost and performance transparency, optimization of resource use and quality assurance. I must emphasize the following: The reduction of private hospitals is something I really can't call! Following the Committee meeting, I, Dr. Grünewald, looked at some of these 49 private hospitals – not all of them, I admit; perhaps there may be one thing or another that is not well, but I must say: I have really looked at some of them very carefully, such as the Rudolfinerhaus, where there is a nuclear-medical facility of the highest quality. You know very well: If you need a full body screening today, for example, you have to wait three to four weeks in the AKH. In the Rudolfinerhaus one has it in two to three days, and this time advantage can be very, very important in such a disease. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Six months it takes...!]] Three to four weeks is the information you get in the AKH; okay, maybe it's longer too. Again: This fund, certainly a very decisive one, will benefit not only private hospitals, but of course also patients and, above all, overall Austrian health planning, and that is an important thing. There is a problem with the amendments tabled by Mr Maier and Mr Lacner, which have already been raised several times today. They're not targeting! They are good from the point of view, but what is being addressed with them is already partly or partly fulfilled, as in the case of Hepatites C victims, for example. So what do you want from SPÖ with these applications? – Obviously, this federal government is moving towards making a bad health policy, one that you have operated by the SPÖ. And that is really condemnable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19372	Mr Miedl is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19394	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too have listened very closely, and in the debates by the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ I have essentially noticed two things: First of all, the fact that SPÖ members have mutilated the fact that there is too little empirical data material to be able to make drug policy, and secondly, for my unexplained reasons, the SPÖ withdrew its original application against the border regulation. And I would like to express my views on both of these issues here in the House. Ladies and gentlemen! Zig thousand people – and that has been happening for years – are taking on more and more illegal drugs. This is not a situation that has only occurred in the last two or three years, but it is a phenomenon in which all the political forces in general have been challenged for many years. I believe that in the face of such a serious problem, people have a right to know what a large party such as the SPÖ has to offer to recipes. Ladies and gentlemen! I have been following very closely the way in which the EIA, together with the liberals, has established the new border regulation, and I was very happy about it, is a problem that has always been affecting me. I was glad to see that the limit of heroin was reduced from five to three grams, for example. – Mr Maier is not here at the moment, but I still have to say: He was one of the most important representatives against this reduction. The border regulation essentially regulates the crime of crime or crime in relation to drugs. Those who are caught or caught with dust under the limit limit will benefit from a benefit. – Ladies and gentlemen, you need to know: Three grams of heroin, three grams of pure substance represent 12 grams of consumer substance, which is about the values. Do you want to represent from SPÖ all serious that dependents with 12 grams and more consumer substances are on their way?- Oh, my God! – This is something I cannot understand, and it has nothing to do with trying to justify not wanting to see young consumers criminalised. I can only say: That is simple and simply wrong policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and also of the Greens! They take bonds from the so-called liberal drug policy, which went into the pants wherever it was played, which went into their pants. Let's look towards Switzerland, let's see what happened in the "Platzspitz Zurich" station in Letten! Let's look further towards Amsterdam, what happened there: In Amsterdam, the bankruptcy of drug policy has, as it were, been declared from home. Do you know what's happened in Amsterdam recently? – Attacks of up to a kilogram of heroin are no longer being pursued at Amsterdam airport! According to the Dutch Minister of Justice, people caught with a kilogram of heroin are no longer subject to criminal prosecution! – That, ladies and gentlemen, cannot possibly be our policy, can not be politics here in the Austrian Parliament! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a predictable drug policy. Of course, what we need is also empirical data, figures and facts. Ladies and gentlemen! I am in contact with an English private clinic operator who will come to Styria next week. On the basis of the WHO data, this man is able to provide information about what is needed in this regard in the clinical offer in Styria or in the south of the Styria. If, on the basis of the WHO's data, it is possible for this doctor to provide information, I wonder why the SPÖ is not possible to provide information on its drug policy on the basis of the existing numbering material. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a reliable policy. We need a proper school policy, we need a proper family policy, and I believe that child money as a whole will contribute significantly to reducing drug dependence in the future. In this sense, I advocate a reasonable attitude to this question and look forward to any discussion with you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. What the SPÖ is currently offering, however, is a little too little for me in view of this major problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19479	Mr Waneck spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19500	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps I have not been properly understood, but I have, I mean, clearly said that the so-called private hospitals, for which there will be a law decision of the National Council today, are an institution that has developed over the past 30 years. Since 1971, I have been a doctor and have been involved in the development of this area, and I would therefore like to say: Social-democratic single governments have always promoted this side of our hospital system. So I mean, we're all in good company. Nothing else has happened but that there has been an inflation adjustment under the inflation rate, namely from a framework - I can repeat this - from 977 million to 1 billion schilling. Nothing else happened. What is new is the integration into the comparable form of funding of the so-called fund hospitals, namely the service-related hospital financing. This enables us in the future to present those private hospitals that offer the same top quality. There will be those difficulties that cannot. But this is also the purpose of quality assurance. I do not want to hide the fact that in these private hospitals there are also a number of non-profit hospitals, even religious ones who have been trying for decades to be included in the Fund Hospitals group. Now they have at last the opportunity to act in this way, in accordance with the rules of origin, to become non-profit. Another point – even here, as I think, has not been exactly heard – is the blood security laws. I said, from a medical point of view, it's tough that there hasn't been anything so long. Since 1997, we have finally had one, and it is a very modern law, which corresponds exactly to the EU directives. It would be completely wrong to say from this point of view that nothing needs to be changed, nothing has to be adjusted. Medicine and its progress force us practically annually, even monthly, to make appropriate adaptations. If someone stands here and says he's done everything, that's his pension speech. There is always a need to improve something. In this context, the persecution of blood products is also to be seen. But, ladies and gentlemen, please remain realistic: This is about offering systems that have not yet been tested, and we have now found two – one of them could be world leaders – that go on trial. It would be just as if you asked the Health Secretary to have a vaccination against cancer by the year 2003. No one can promise you that. Now a system has been developed to track the exact CV of a blood product, which will be tested at University Professor Höcker for the first time with morgic day in the AKH, in an intensive, very short test run, so that we will have the corresponding results already in August. In February, the hospital in Lainzer is under test, and a second system in March at the Hanusch Hospital. However, this system has the disadvantage that temperature fluctuations cannot be recorded in the course of the life of such a blood product. The other system will be able to do that. That's why I mean, if it works, it'll be superior. In my opinion, it is essential that one remains in reality when it comes to demands. One cannot demand something that is now under test, but from the outset determine that one must then implement it – and that is what you demand. If it turns out it's not the right thing, we need to look for something else. However, there are currently no other and better systems in the world. In this respect, at least scientific progress must be taken into account. Finally, let me draw attention to one point. It was spoken of withdrawal of health care funds. I can remember that in February 2000 was the forecast made by the "main association" that we will have to expect a 490 million-dollar finish today. We turned it over! We have already brought in € 420 million without any deterioration in the quality of medicine. The drug alone was €180 million, something you still smiled at in the spring of last year. But I see other problems. I have here a prescription of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse, with which a young woman who has suffered from painful inflammation has been prescribed a medicine that can usually be prescribed by the appropriate doctor with the note "IND", i.e.: indicated, prescribed. In addition, this will be subject to subsequent sampling checks. This patient has gone with the prescription to the local health insurance fund. A confirmation was rejected because there was no justification for this, but it is not necessary at all. She went back to the doctor who wrote a ten-line explanation. The second speech was rejected by the explanatory statement: Can no longer be decreed because the government has decreed savings. Now I'm telling you what this medicine – I'm not telling you, as it says – would have cost you: 10 €, i.e. 137 p. For this, a patient had to travel to the local health insurance fund twice, so that he could not get it approved. [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is a scandal!]] I think these are things where we still have a lot of work in front of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19550	Mr Lacner spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please start by playing on the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19574	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I'm actually correcting. Mr Waneck, State Secretary, has claimed that we are not listening to his words with an ambiguity. – The opposite is the case, of course we are listening to your words, Mr State Secretary, otherwise the further correction would not be possible. They claimed that the increase for the private hospitals amounted to 2.5 percent. I'm actually correcting: In § 590 para. 4 ASVG is determined to increase by 3.3 percent. That's your law you decided last year.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19604	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19625	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If the Secretary of State has said in his statements that I have listened to, from 977 million schillings to 1 billion schillings, I must say that this is certainly not 3.3 percent, Mr Lacner. But now to some statements that have just come from you. It was said that this law was a weakening of the public health system. Mr Lackner, this is not a weakening of the health system, but an important complement in the health field. This is not a bad quality position in the health sector, but the involvement of private hospitals in the LKF, i.e. in the performance-oriented hospital financing. If you're talking about a "two-class medicine", you're sure to pass by reality, miles away. How does reality look in hospitals? – I myself am responsible for a regional primary hospital and set up a class station in this hospital five years ago, because the need was there because demand was so great. Today, this class station is the best-used department in the hospital. I can prove that too. Dear ladies and gentlemen! If it is claimed here that money is deducted from the public sector and transferred to the private sector, then it is polemic and in no way right. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This draft legislation, which is coming to its decision today, represents an important step in the right direction in the health field. The focus of a health policy must always be on the patient. In our health policy, people are at the centre of attention, especially the patient. This law undoubtedly brings further improvement to the situation of patients, namely those patients who are sick and need the best medical care as soon as possible. That is also one of the important reasons why we decide on this law today. An approximation with public hospitals in the performance-related remuneration is urgently necessary to ensure that the patient is safe and secure that his treatment costs are financed by the health insurance fund or that a care cost contribution is made available. For those hospitals who can calculate performance-orientedly with the new scheme, this fund represents enormous aid of € 72.6 million. For private hospitals, there has so far been a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis public houses, which will certainly not be fully compensated for by this increase, but it is an important step towards compensation. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus briefly on the criticism of the opposition, because we certainly have one of the best health systems worldwide. I would like to refer once again to the concept of two-class medicine, which you are constantly trying to speak about: What actually distinguishes the "class patient" from the "normal" patient? – The "class patient" has the possibility to choose the food à la carte or has a TV in the room. Everything else, both in the medical field and in the care sector, is the same on and on itself. We want a healthy health system, and with this law our health system remains on the right track and develops in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19682	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19704	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My colleague, Mr Miedl, has made me speak. First of all, on the request relating to the limit-rate regulation which you have referred to. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: What happened?]] This is a request that Mr Maier has withdrawn from committee. In terms of content, he would have already been entitled. I should like to remind you that, in principle, all the drug experts in the revision of the border regulation have meant that this is a step in the wrong direction, because it pushes heavily dependent people into crime. There has been no change in this. Point two: the drug report. – This is what surprises me the most: I do not understand why you are afraid to present a comprehensive drug report. Apparently, you believe that this drug report will also contain other things than those you're used to. That's the only explanation for me. The ÖBIG report states several times that the data situation is defective. I think that should be resolved – even in common interest, regardless of other approaches. Two more points, Mr Miedl: As far as Amsterdam is concerned, the "successful" drug policy in Amsterdam looks so that there the dependence on heroin has declined massively. [[Abg. Miedl: It's such a fool!]] Look at all the data on this! And at the same time, cannabis consumption has not increased. You also said that heroin is no longer being persecuted in Amsterdam. – Believe that You're not yourself, are you? The separation between heroin and cannabis is the basic element of Dutch drug policy and has led to the fact that there is even a very strict persecution of heroin, including – as you probably know very well – in the "coffee shops". "Coffee shops", in which heroin appears, are rigorously closed. It is not about releasing everything, but it is simply about a differentiated drug policy that has been successfully pursued in Amsterdam for years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last point – Switzerland: The Swiss "Scheitern" is very interesting. In the meantime, there are also conservative parties – apart from the Swiss People's Party, which hopefully has nothing to do with your People's Party, namely Mr Blocher's Party – all for a liberal drug policy in the field of cannabis and for a drug policy of controlled heroin levy, which, among other things, your colleague – and predecessor as health spokesperson of the ÖVP – Leinner himself in 1995. So that's not how it can be! [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's not true at all! That's not true!]] In Switzerland, this policy has led to the fact that the scene has been removed from the street in many areas, colleague Miedl, and I consider this to be success and not failure. Then there was a return to previous approaches, and now there is a broad social consensus in Switzerland to take a different approach to drug policy. [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: That's not true!]] My hope is that this government will not be able to resist a European trend in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19818	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law in 980 of the Supplements. To this end, MEPs have tabled amendments by Dr Pumberger, Dr Rasinger and others. First of all, I will vote on the part of the proposed amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Pumberger, Dr. Rasinger, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning § 12 of the draft law. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 981 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 982 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We are now voting on the Committee on Health's request to take note of its 983 report of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent to this, to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Perception Report (III-105 of the Supplements) on the apprenticeship offensive, Euroteam Group (907 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19925	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e19951	Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker looks at the empty government bank.]] I don't know if anyone's coming from the Court of Auditors, but I'm starting anyway! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Gone empty on the government bank!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the Court of Auditors' report on Euroteam, and I am glad that we can conclude at least this chapter. After a permanent subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been working on the 'Euroteam' of the Committee of the Court of Auditors at the time of the request of the Greens, a committee of inquiry on this issue was then set up after the elections and had already been entrusted with a report before the Court of Auditors' elections, the House – the Court of Auditors itself had already completed its report a little earlier – is now finally presenting the report on the debate. Mr Kukacka will certainly be looking forward to this. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the same time as the Court of Auditors, a committee of inquiry - a little further and also to my regrets - has dealt with this issue very indeterminately. The Causa "Euroteam" is here as there is actually completed, and I think it is a cut-out that shows how it can be done in the courtyards of power. Much without control, people work there with a lot of influence, even with a very high responsibility – it only sometimes happens with a sense of responsibility. One can thus provide for his friends and others can also serve. This requires a certain type of functionary or politician, who is elongated accordingly, and – we could already study it in several cases, not only with the Causa "Euroteam", – there are. There were those in the Causa "World Vision" with Mrs. Tina Taurer, who also had the eloquence and spoke to the committee, at least the government parties, at that time. – Mr Graf can nod quietly, because at the time he was not a government party. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We understand, gentlemen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] – It needs it as a prerequisite. You can see how to sell one and the same performance several times – this is the result of the Causa "Euroteam". You can see how you can use this rather impenetrable thickness of promotions and subsidies for quite a long time, without anyone seeing it. One can see – and that is not entirely irrelevant – that the few control mechanisms that exist in ministerial areas, for example an internal revision that would have to be examined the award of orders, can be eliminated at any time and very comfortably, recalling that "necessity was given" or "risk in delay". That's what you're writing in front of the act, and then the decision-making process has to be dealt with immediately, without just having to hear some internal revision. If you look carefully, you could probably find that there and there, even in the Causa "Euroteam", in individual departments, resistance to this preference and against this rather transparent remuneration of subsidy recipients has widened. What is the consequence of this? – The Causa "Euroteam" is complete. I thank the Court of Auditors for this because the work of the Court of Auditors – and I had already invested a lot in this case before – was a good achievement, was very detailed, only: The political conclusions are not drawn by the Court of Auditors, and obviously the House is not prepared to draw them. The Court of Auditors cannot draw it, Mr Kuracka. He submits a report to us, and we have to discuss it. Only, Deputies Kukacka: Where are the consequences for the internal revision? Where? – Let's go, Mr Kukacka. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Come on!]] When, Mr Kukacka, did you touch and rain in the committee of inquiry? This would have been very important once: There were internal revision officials, and it was you who criticized the internal revision officials for criticizing a mandate. That's you! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Go, this is crazy!]] They were this, in the order given to the Institute of Family Research and in which an internal revision of God was finally noticed something and did not want to be shaken off, but has always consistently criticized for several years: [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's crazy!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Dr. Drinkl]] That can't be, here will be against the internal directives, against the procurement law! But what does Mr Kukacka do? – He says: No, that's not how it is, internal revision! You can't criticize your minister! You cannot criticise him, above all, because he is an ÖVP minister or she is an ÖVP minister! – This was the consequence, Mr Kukacka, that you have withdrawn from the committee of inquiry! [[Abg. May. Kukacka:... feeble...!]] And so it really cannot be, Mr Kukacka, as you would like to deal with the Committee of Inquiry. We are here in the Committee of Inquiry to draw political consequences and also to consider whether, in the specific case of the Social Ministry, a Ministry has simply arbitrarily awarded contracts to certain promoters under the supervision of the legislator. What does Mr Kukacka see as his mission for the Committee of Inquiry for the Causa "Euroteam"? – To present individual projects, such as a project that supports Latin American exiled women in Austria, a very reasonable project that is about ensuring health care for illegal prostitutes here in the country – and of these there are thousands of them. What does Mr Kukacka do? – He says: There must be no such thing as that! They're illegal in the country! There's a health care uninteresting! – Mr Kukacka does not want that. This can't be done, says the honourable Member Kukacka: Illegal prostitutes must not be provided, that is illegal! - That was your argument. Mr Kukacka, you are abusing the Committee of Inquiry! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is not the case in the Court of Auditors report!]] For several months now, you have been using the Investigation Committee. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is not the case in the Court of Auditors report!]] You have asked for 800 000 pages of material against better knowledge – because you know for yourself that nothing is to be found – which is now found in a room of Parliament. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is unacceptable!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The Committee is confidential!]] They themselves have not looked at a page yet – no one could look at it. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is not the case in the Court of Auditors report!]] You know exactly if you want to work through 800 000 pages, then you – and you will not be able to do so – will have to spend 20 years in this Parliament as an ÖVP member, especially if you continue to work at this pace in the investigation committee. And these 20 years you will not spend in this Parliament, regardless of whether you want it or not! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is abuse, however, Mr Kukacka. Millions are being set in motion, files are requested: For what? – So that they can endure somewhere in a Chamber in Parliament and be responsible for the care of parliament officials. And Mr Kukacka is a member of the Committee on Inquiry and is presenting individual projects! He knows exactly that there is nothing to be found. He knows exactly that the projects have been examined. [[Abg. Gaugg: How does he know?]] Mr Kukacka knows exactly that these projects have all adhered to the relevant legal directives and standards, but he wants to beat political small money, for example, from the fact that illegal prostitutes are being cared for here in Austria – as I mean – properly. That, Mr Kukacka, is a bit too cheap, and it is an abuse of an investigation instrument.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20187	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20244	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The background of this "infinite story" of the Causa "Euroteam" in 1997 was a disastrous one – so one can say – employment situation of young people, which is disastrous, because suddenly the economy was no longer willing to train apprentices, perhaps because of the efforts to achieve the state's training. It's like it's again today: Today we also have the situation that young people at school do not know if they will receive a training place in autumn, only: Unlike today, it was the case that the government put climate into action very quickly. Today this is more secondary, today the fetish "zero deficit" is the first choice. Whether the boys have a job or not, it's not that important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Against this background, the Federal Government at that time, in memory of the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, unanimously decided on the initiative "The Youth One Chance", the training initiative of the Austrian Federal Government, which was also carried by you by the ÖVP. It had to be done quickly, and the Court of Auditors report is very precise that this is actually the problem. There was nothing in the budget for it, now one had to divide it into three different ministries, and there has always been in the background – and that was not all right – this institution "Euroteam" which has already been involved in the conception. And suddenly we had the situation that a contractor was there, who knew very well the achievements, but who also knew very well how to calculate them, and actually four jobs – if you calculate the AMS – that no longer knew so well, which is actually where they are calculated and where they are delivered. A little bit of this, I think, was thought to have been done at the time, because a so-called Steering Committee - a Steering Committee, a Steering Group - was installed with Mrs Hostasch, but also Mrs Gehrer and Mr Farnleitner. They were called upon to control and also to check. This is obviously not going to work properly, and this committee has obviously gone away from the unclean way in which this "Euroteam" group works. However: When this became known, climate and hostasch immediately and without a doubt commissioned the Court of Auditors to review. Although the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors has already been involved, the task has been given to the Court of Auditors. Today we are discussing this report by the Court of Auditors, and in no syllable can it be proved that a social-democratic member of the government would have given an instruction that this "Euroteam" group would have preferred. [[Abg. Gaugg: That must not be true!]] On page 32 of this report, however, one reads the instructions of Mr. Farnleiter. It states that "Euroteam" should be commissioned through his wish. However: It is precisely this page, which the Court of Auditors report refers to here, that has nowhere to be found in the Committee of Inquiry. But there again, Mr. Drinkl, helped us. In a very fast action this list was then also available for us. However, there was nothing left of this entire causa, except the fact that there was an ÖVP minister's renunciation, except the fact that an ad to the prosecutor's office is still unfinished, a floating trial over 7.8 million schilling. Too much, I say here very, very clearly – but it is not 118 million schilling, but 7.8 million schilling. If I imagine that in the Causa ÖIF, the Austrian Institute of Family Research, we have to do with 50 million schillings, which have been awarded to this ÖVP-near institution without complying with the procurement guidelines, then I wonder what authority prevents the coalition majority of FPÖ and ÖVP from asking these questions in the investigation committee. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ! It is extremely undemocratic, questions that you do not do well, which you do not want, in which you may feel on the slips, simply do not allow by majority. But the truth and the facts will certainly not prevent you by a majority, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20290	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20312	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In fact, I would just like to deal with the 'Euroteam' and what is actually being dealt with by the Court of Auditors, because there is no word in the Court of Auditors' report about what Mr Gaßner said at the end of the debate on family. [[Abg. Oils: Thank God!]] There is nothing in the Court of Auditors' report either. They only want to distract from many other unpleasant things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] But I only say on the subject, Mr Oillinger: We have noted that you are here fully committed to an association and, above all, to the authority that supports this association. This association is advised without such control and, as we believe, without complying with the legislation, foreign prostitutes who have obviously been dragged to Austria, who do not have a residence permit in Austria, who do not have work permits in Austria and refuse to undergo the intended health tests. That is what you want, and all this should, as it were, be accepted, tolerated, supported and promoted by us. So we are not playing with that, and we are going to deal with this case very clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: You have no idea!]] I do not want to go any further on the topic of family institutions, which you have referred to here. [[Abg. May. Worm: I believe you! You're uncomfortable!]] This institute has been used by the Austrian Federal Government under Chancellor Vranitzky and climate. [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] This institution has always been endowed with the corresponding budget resources that you have decided here in this House, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. This institute doesn't fit you until you've been in the opposition. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And what does the internal revision say?]] This is totally opaque, but we will continue to deal with the subject anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You have no idea what you're talking about!]] But let us come to the issue of 'Euroteam', ladies and gentlemen, because this case of 'Euroteam' – and it has also been supported and documented by the Court of Auditors – has clearly demonstrated the transformation between the social democratically-led ministerial offices and the 'Euroteam'. [[Abg. Edlinger: With the Farnleitner office!]] It was clearly noted that procurement guidelines were dealt with by tricks, that internal checks were disabled, and that orders were given party-political control. We do not need to argue about this, because this is what the Court of Auditors report says, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Where's that?]] Read! [[Abg. Gaál: Where's that?]] Court of Auditors! [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Please page!]] You will still be able to read it or at least delegate it to those dealing with it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Leikam: There's nothing in there!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: From the Farnleitner stands something inside!]] It is scandalous that millions of public funds have been transferred to "Euroteam" by means of corresponding socialist friend economy and the intervention of ministers' secretaries, without the corresponding sufficient counter-services. This report of the Court of Auditors has clearly confirmed the accusations which have been raised here over and over again, including us in the committee concerned, ladies and gentlemen. We are dealing with shortcomings in the selection of projects, shortcomings in the design of contracts and shortcomings in the processing of funding. A small group of social-democratic friends – Erich Holsteiner, employees of ex-minister Edlinger, should not be completely unknown to you; [[Abg. Edlinger: What does it have to do with it?]] Gerald Gerstbauer, also immortalized in this Court of Auditors report, you should read that, Minister of Hostasch, "Euroteam" Managing Director Lukas Sitzpfärer and his partner Franz Bernthaler – was the driving force, ladies and gentlemen. The SPÖ judge Jarolim has also presented a truly degulant case of lack of political morality. He was sent to this committee, he was sitting in this committee and discussed there, although he was a legal representative for a company from the Euroteam company, for the "bfi-Vienna Euroteam". He has even employed the "Euroteam" Managing Director of Chairs as his parliamentary staff, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Murauer: That's great!]] It is incredible that Mr Jarolim did not mention his personal close relationship with the central figure of the "Euroteam" here with a word, but apparently tried to conceal it, but one came to him. This is a case of lack of political morality, and in fact Mr Jarolim should have resigned, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20533	Mrs Dr Mertel spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please, Madam Member, start by playing the allegation and by contrasting it with the corrected facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20560	Mr President. My previous speaker, Mr Kukacka, here claimed that the Austrian Institute of Family Research had been decided here in the National Council under a chancellor Vrannitzky or climate and the government decided to do so, and then spoke of moral considerations. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Of course! By the government!]] In here! You said "the government." That means that there must be a Council of Ministers decision. Neither the government nor the National Council has decided on the Austrian Institute of Family Research. This is the only thing that has been set up by the wife's family minister, Rauch-Kallat – with a black managing director, Dr. Schattovitz.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20611	The next speaker was Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20685	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The bad conscience in the SPÖ night! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The vegetables are more expensive!]] First of all, thank you very much to the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff for the presentation of the Court of Auditors' report and also a thank you to those staff who have been available as information staff on the Euroteam Committee. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Mr Gaßner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That sounded almost as if he had learned for the first time in his life that "Euroteam" has something to do with SPÖ. That's sensational! This was just a climate team, a perfectly raised network with 27 works contracts and a damage to the Austrian taxpayer of 118 million Schilling. That's fact. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A madness! A scandal!]] You, Mr Gaßner – you have had the dubious happiness of "late birth", you were neither in the subcommittee nor in the investigation committee on "Euroteam" – should have experienced, like a Mr. Jarolim, who is now "worked" – under quotation marks – until he found out that he was also sitting in the middle of this swamp, which he himself took care of. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't trust himself!]] It has been interesting to hear from the informationers again and again: I don't know anything, I don't know! This was constantly at the heart of the space from the Federal Chancellor downwards. I don't know anything! But of how to get orders in their personal favor, they had an idea, there they were pros! Chair priest & co with the help of ministers in a boat – and then it goes! There were projects to support unemployed Roma in Burgenland. So far, so good. However, the amount of 3.8 million schilling must be compared to the fact that six unemployed Roma have been cared for there. These 3.8 million schillings, however, have not benefited the unemployed Roma, but have been dubious speakers who have even been sued for illegal use of parts of text from accounting documents. You have to imagine that! And all this in the face of the socialists and all in the face of the chief minister Hostasch. [[Abg. May. Worm: Under the eyes of Farnleitner!]] Just a small example: The labour market service has looked through this. The labour market service has warned against the further allocation of funds to chair-priority and co. What was the result? – A letter from the Federal Minister for Labour Service to keep the funds flowing. That is thanks to God. Therefore, the SPÖ will still have to bite on this question for a long time. Despite the multiple criticisms, despite the criticism expressed in writing, there has been banned interventions by socialist leaders such as climate and co. At least today, it must be admitted that even climate junior and others have been abused by this Mr. Chair-Pairer. Even your current chairman has given Mr. Chair-Pearce the opportunity to sit in the press gallery. He came in with his ticket. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: ORF! Zensur at the ORF!]] At least today, you could admit that you went to the glue, which, although professionally, has no idea, has to answer 118 million schilling to the Austrian taxpayer. In reality, the SPÖ would have to return the 118 million schilling of the public hand if it had renovated its funds. That would be fair and decent. I'd expect that. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Dr. stupid.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What did the SPÖ do? Tell me!]] If you have your dubious types such as chair fronts and co... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does the SPÖ have...?]] Intervened! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You intervene continuously at ORF!]] I'd like to tell you three more times: Read the Court of Auditors' report, read the testimony! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Just as you and your party leader intervene continuously at ORF!]] Excuse me! I don't know, Mrs. Mertel, why you're so upset. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You intervened at ORF! You practiced censorship!]] What are you so excited about? Have we perhaps overlooked you in the question "Euroteam"? Could it be that you were there somewhere? We could do that again. It seems to be that way. Either you have tender ties to Mr. Chair-Parrestor, or something must be there that you are so upset about it. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Yes, that's it!]] That's incredible! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact and fact is that these rulers made luxury trips at the expense of taxpayers. One of them is particularly beautiful: A meeting took place in Palermo. Below, the gentlemen will have learned a little bit how to get public funding. I don't understand this SPÖ, but even the voters don't understand it anymore that such dubious figures are then also defended by you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20876	Mr Dr. Dr. spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20927	Mr President. High house! Mr Gaugg has just claimed that with the affair of "Euroteam", 118 million schillings were so to speak misguided to the damage of Austria. . You know, honourable Member, that this claim is wrong. It corresponds exactly to the form of pouring that you otherwise use. The Court of Auditors report shows 92 million schilling expenditure to "Euroteam". Among them, for example, were 50 million schilling to finance a high-school course, and you know exactly that the Court of Auditors report has considered it perfectly correct. So claim. You don't know things here that you know are wrong!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e20964	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please. [[Call:Actually corrective]] This is an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21007	Mr President. Mr Gaugg – you will do that, Grandruck! – has claimed that it would have been 118 million schilling who were misguided. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] The fact is that 7.8 million schillings exist on open claims to "Euroteam" who are now judicial and where there has not yet been a judgment. [[Abg. Gaugg: Isn't that enough?]] That it is enough, I have already said in my speech. But it is not condemned, so it cannot be spoken of as infidelity.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21061	Excuse me! This is not a normal debate, this is a real correction. Mr Gaßner, has the actual correction ended? [[Abg. May. Gaßner: No!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21094	I should like to make a second corrective point, Mr President. Mr Gaugg also said in his more or less interesting remarks that I had the grace of "late birth" and would not have been in the Committee of Inquiry from the outset. [[Abg. Gaugg: The dubious luck!]] Unquestionably for whom? I'm actually putting it right: I was there from the beginning, but I was probably too little significant for Mr Gaugg than for him to greet me.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21146	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21182	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Gaugg! Mr Kukacka! I was in the committee. We got to know each other very carefully in these hours, and your method is known to all of us: Say, claim, prove nothing and then leave the allegations in the room! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Remember Christmas three years ago? [[Abg. Gaugg: There was the Christkind!]] A very important campaign of the women's ministry at that time has just begun. This campaign was called "Keep the Violence!" This was a campaign designed to help women in conflict situations, violence in the family. [[Abg. Gaugg: What will this be like? Will the Christkind come back?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone and anyone who has ever dealt with the issue of violence in the family knows that this is especially true of women that 90 percent of violence is committed to women, children. That's a fact. And to the urgency: You may know, ladies and gentlemen – or you may not know, then listen – just before Christmas, the violence in the families is escalating very often. Therefore, it was necessary and important that this action, this campaign started at that time. That was in the 1998 Christmas season. How was this campaign designed? – On the one hand, there were TV spots to draw attention to, on the other hand, there was a help line. That was a telephone number where you could call at the local tariff and get information. That was an important and necessary measure. It will not be as easy as possible for Christmas 2002. It will no longer be applied, and that is a problem. Anyone who takes violence seriously in the family regrets that. I particularly regret this because this is a matter of concern to me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But then please do something for it! I would now like to refer to the award practice, because it has been criticised by the Court of Auditors. It has been said, and the Court of Auditors report has said, that it would not have been properly and lawfully written out. There are comments from the Ministry, in this case the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations. Ms. Federal Minister Sickl, at the time responsible, expressed the view – this was also the view of the previous Minister, this is also my opinion – that this service is not a contract of work but a service, an immaterial service. And if I interpret it this way, it means that the procurement directive has been complied with. You can talk about it. Mr Oellinger may be surprised, but you can see that very well. I remember that there were six award criteria to which this contract should be awarded. For example, the call center should be operated by women, for example, the women sitting on the phone should be trained. This task should have been awarded even to women of the women's homes, only in this short period they could not have provided this benefit. They then made it from May of the year 1999. [[Abg. Gaugg: (a table with the inscription "Jarolim, where are you?" Mrs. Colleague, where is he?]] That's it! That's what it's all about! It is not about whether Mr Jarolim is in the hall, but about helping women. 2 000 calls have been made. Many women have been taught. That is our concern, and this must also be our concern, Mr Gaugg, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. That's important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gaugg: Where is he? Where's your friend?]] And if that's a concern, then you need to support such things and not establish a division VI/6 and similar things. Women belong to protected, including by your government, instead of eliminating women's policy. [[Abg. Gaugg: Especially from you they belong protected!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21301	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21323	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Mrs. Wurm, you've now been excellently distracted from this "Euroteam" story. I would like to return to that because the Court of Auditors has just rolled up this 'Euroteam' story accordingly, and I would like to thank you very much, Mr President, and of course also your officials. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Read the Court of Auditors report!]] One has to say that colleagues from the Court of Auditors are very noble people, because they speak in the context of this "Euroteam" story literally of coordination failures, double-tracks and billing difficulties. In the clear text one should actually say: This "Euroteam" affair is and was a scandal of the extra class, because around the gentlemen' climate senior and climate junior some 100 million schillings have been thrown out ineffectively – throw out, not misguided – and the measures applied have proved to be completely ineffective, because the effect on apprenticeship employment was equally null. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] But this "Euroteam" affair has, of course, been more than just a political misappropriation. This affair is in fact a moral image, ladies and gentlemen, a moral image for the final stage of government of a completely starved SPÖ – but we were not starved, we worked! – and with money one wanted to buy away from the sins of the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You were there!]] What climate, Edlinger and Hostasch had failed, the young boys from the "Euroteam" were supposed to break up again. Dr. Rudas, who was also part of the game at the time, still believes that money wasting can be bought with benefits and results. But just as much as this so-called spin doctor then understood from politics, he understands football today, so I'm told, nothing at all. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] I can imagine how it all happened back then. The Spin Doctors Rudas and Kalina wanted to prove what had brought together an employment policy of the then German Chancellor climate, and the Social Minister did not even entrust his own people with something, so the boys had to do it. Mr. Chairman, climate junior and other young boys should deliver actions that were simply not capable of red ministerial regimes. Oh poor Social Democracy, how deep you have fallen!, you should actually say here, because after the disaster of the nationalized and the "consumer" plea then this "Euroteam" affair. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] And you still think, Mr Edlinger and Mr Cap, that our Federal Chancellor Dr Wolfgang Schüssel has prevented you from participating in this government. [[Call the SPÖ:Well what now?]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I didn't say anything! You don't even notice that!]] Obstacled! You will know for yourself what that means, because you can do German. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not so safe!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This "Euroteam" story actually shows the real reasons: You have given government competence to a Mr. Chair-Parrest and Consortia, so you must not be surprised that you have chosen the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21449	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Worm reported in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21474	Mrs Lentsch has claimed that I would not have dealt with this report, but I would have started a distraction maneuver. I'm actually correcting: The debated report includes the chapter "Other Promotions and Work Contracts" on page 71, which you would know if you had read it, the chapter "Campagne Violence Against Women". [[Abg. Lens: I read it!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21509	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21531	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Firstly, I would also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and the staff of the Court of Auditors for the excellent audit report on the Euroteam issue. It was really a good and excellent document and basis for the investigation committee. What I think is incredible in today's discussion is that the SPÖ continues to defend this promotion sum, that it still jumps into the break for these dubious machinations around chair pears, around the "Euroteam" group. I don't understand. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Were you not in the last hour?]] The many meetings of the Committee of Inquiry have clearly demonstrated an incredible scandal of funding. What happened? – A few young people have met in red youth organisations, they have come to know each other – that's not unusual yet – and they have come together and thought: We could actually use this system. One has set up a group around an association, the other have been in the ministerial offices. There's been a division of tasks. A network of incredible scale has been set up, which has ultimately also demonstrated these incredible amounts of funding. One even brought the son of the Federal Chancellor, Jan Klima, into the boat. No matter if he knew about it or didn't know, something was pretended to do with it and he wanted to impress in the red ministerial offices. After that, the friends in the ministerial offices heard about what projects they could need, and then put this to their friends in the "Euroteam" group. The "Euroteam" group has "at random" offered exactly the sought-after thing, even before an invitation to tender. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes! Just like with the interceptors!]] Then you've gone the way. There has been no public invitation to tender and the internal revision has been disabled. One has turned off the internal revision with the note "pervasive" and, on the grounds that projects have been carried out that "Euroteam" is the only possible provider and, and, and. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This Committee of Inquiry has demonstrated that a group, distributed across different ministerial offices, has damaged associations, other groups and companies, the state and taxpayers. And it is the fact that the Red Ministries and the Red Ministers have watched it or have been deceived. That can happen! But it's bad if you still defend that today!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21587	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21609	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I entered this committee a little later, and I must say that I share the opinion that a previous speaker from the Greens has already expressed today: The Court of Auditors report is in itself good and is a good basis. This also applies to the book given by the Greens. On the basis of this example, I would like to say again that I am glad that there is the Court of Auditors and that it is working in this relatively consistent form. However, I was surprised by what I heard from Mr Kukacka and Mr Gaugg. If we are talking about a damage of 118 million schillings, I would like to say: In the end, there were indeed benefits for this! For example, in the Committee of Inquiry, it was clear that the high-school courses were very positive. So you really have to calculate first how high the damage actually is! One thing is clear, and we also confess: There were a few young people – I mean, Luke's chair-priority in particular – who took advantage of the whole and gave themselves an extra income and carried out work that was not in order. It was therefore important that the Court of Auditors review and that there be appropriate institutions. I read here, for example, that comprehensible evidence for the collection of comparative offers is missing and that a public tender would have been carried out with regard to the extent of the expected costs. It also says here that it appears worrying and is not acceptable if the same performance is paid several times and the staff costs experience an increase of 38 percent. It is also noted that: "However, given the Austrian savings package and the need to tighten the belt more closely, and the fact that officials have had to give up salary increases for two years, the fact that the association... approved a salary increase of 2.5 percent for 1996. Ladies and gentlemen! But I am not talking about Euroteam, but about the Ministry's internal revision report on the "Austrian Institute for Family Research". [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] Mr Kukacka! Last time it was said that the 1998 Court of Auditors report has given this association a great witness. I have now looked at this and found that, in reality, the same thing as just quoted is to be read: There is also criticism in this context, for example, that there have been free-handed awards. It is therefore just as important to check this out as in the case of "Euroteam". You have to leave the church in the village! Mr Kukacka! Especially you as a housing promotion specialist would have to understand that we are really bringing everything to light. That's, like I mean, very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't defend Euroteam! On the contrary! And I'm waiting for the court case to come. I have put a parliamentary question, the procedure is still not completed, and we may be surprised if the whole thing goes out like the Hornberger shooting. In this context, I think it is important – including with regard to today's questioner discussion – to strengthen the control organisations and to increase staff and resources for institutions such as the Court of Auditors, labour inspectorates or food control bodies. We don't have to think about it. In these areas, some mafia things are going on, so we need more control and not what Blue-Black is doing now, namely reducing, preventing and blocking these control devices. And also the opposition is always blocked and disabled whenever it becomes embarrassing for the ÖVP – as Mr Kukacka always does with success in the Subcommittee. The difference is as follows: In connection with "Euroteam" a few young ones have enriched themselves – admittedly in the dark circle of the SPÖ. However, we should consider whether the ÖIF has not established an Institute borne by the ÖVP in order to do a very specific work for the ÖVP. A few fig leaves already exist with the members! You've certainly made it more skillful than the stool.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21678	The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21699	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Although I was not involved from the outset in the "Euroteam" investigative committee, I have professional experience, since I was active in the field of funding at a national business office and also was head of an AMS office. And that's where I got a lot of things. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report on the apprenticeship campaign of the former Federal Government in connection with the "Euroteam" group, as well as on further contracts and promotions, is probably an example of how carelessly parts of the old Federal Government have been dealt with by public means. If you read the Court of Auditors reports, you get some insight into the sometimes rather peculiar business behaviour of the former Federal Chancellor's Office and also the former Federal Ministry of Labour, Health and Social Affairs: The exemplary and generous awarding of promotion projects without any tendering, without any cost-benefit comparison, without any savings thought and without accompanying control suggests how it must have been done in other areas and why government debt has assumed an unprecedented degree with huge steps. Ladies and gentlemen! The mismanagement of the funding for the apprenticeship campaign is exemplary in the Court of Auditors' Perception Report – and I would like to limit myself to this – as regards the allocation of funds to the Euroteam Group. For example, the Court of Auditors has been able to establish that several departments and the AMS have concluded and awarded a total of 27 works contracts, promotion applications and other contracts in the total volume of 118 million schilling in connection with the apprenticeship offensive. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Court of Auditors, 98 million schillings accounted for works and promotion contracts alone with the "Euroteam" group. This was – and it is no doubt – the award of SPÖ-responsibles and their agents without tendering procedures to SPÖ artists. Why did the allocation of this funding come to such a high degree in the case of the mis-economy and the artificial economy? – The Court of Auditors also knows an answer if it holds: "The Court considers that the measures relating to the apprenticeship offensive and divided into several sites should have been granted under the responsibility of a body and under the Federal Procurement Act within the framework of the overall mandate." That's exactly what you've prevented! The job which is otherwise responsible for AMS funding, namely the labour market service, has been disabled. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors also draws up in the Perception Report and notes that: "Problems in the implementation of the projects were the result of the lack of project support, which did not identify corrective requirements in good time and did not take counter-control measures in good time." Why? – Because the only instrument that would be available – free of charge – for the implementation, namely the AMS, has been switched off, because in the AMS bodies, service providers and service providers are represented in a parity and would not have let that happen. Fair calls for tenders, cost-benefit balances, controlling and evaluation should be given special attention in future in the award of labour market funding, says the Federal Ministry of Labour and Economic Affairs, which is now responsible for this. . I believe that this Court of Auditors report is also a message to all of us and to the current ministry to take appropriate care in the future. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for this report.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21754	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21775	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The investigative committee has its authority, because it was indeed necessary to investigate company relationships and the arrival of orders. The investigations showed some particularly remarkable things. As an example, I call the project for apprentices "The Youth a Chance II" of the L.S.-Berattungsgesellschaft GesmbH: It was remarkable that this was the only employment contract with a ministry that was established by a minister on the basis of a direction, by the direction of the Minister of Farnleitner. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what an instruction looks like! [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] That was the only intervention of a minister in direct business! Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore, the billing of this project has led to dissatisfaction in this context at first. This project was then examined for six months. Finally, one has paid for the project including the Mahnspesen. What do we conclude, ladies and gentlemen? – that the examination has shown that the amount of the benefits was rightly required. Ladies and gentlemen! I didn't express myself quite exactly: The second influence of a member of the government was on behalf of German Chancellor Klima to investigate here. In addition, the Court of Auditors noted that an Institute for Education Research of the Economy would have been much more favourable in the preparation of apprenticeships than the company that was made known. – To this end, I would like to say: There are about 500 000 flat-rate 3 million of the L.S. operating company GesmbH. What the Court of Auditors did not note, however, is that only the brochures for the teachers cost almost 3.5 million schilling. On the other hand, if you speak of a flat-rate 3 million, you must of course see the 500 000 S and the 3.5 million for the brochure together! Ladies and gentlemen! As far as this € 269 626 is concerned, we have to look at it in the next few days, because on the first page of the report we can clearly read how it was calculated here: If, for example, this brochure had been produced at 357,000 p.m., the reproduction would have cost the same as the translation into English. It is therefore high time to start research in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! Something very special should be the 37 info-maps for teaching professions: Such a map costs to say and write 24 616 S, say 1 800 €. And it's even better: Because these folders were so successful, they were then added and cost 28 928 s at a time. It was then only more than 16. – I believe that the Committee of Inquiry will still have a lot of work to do in this regard! We will help our part to get light into the dark here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Drinkl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The internal revision – we have heard it – has shown shortcomings in connection with the family research institute. That was ignored. The Federal Ministry of Finance has mounted these basic awards to the company. That was ignored. The Ministers for Smoking, Moser and Minister Bartenstein also did not take note of our objections. – We will not ignore these results! We insist that the investigations are continued so far that light is ultimately brought into the dark!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21838	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21860	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, If one has followed the debate carefully, and in particular the contributions made by my socialist predecessors, then one would think that two different committees of inquiry have been carried out. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: You weren't always there!]] The socialists are trying to get away from their problems. This is quite legitimate in politics, but it is transparent! You'll actually see that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] It is true that only about 7.8 million schillings are reclaimed by civil law. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Why not?]] - Why not? Then you stop at borders. In terms of content, the contracts carried out in this form will ultimately be measured by civil enforceability. Now I call you a parable: A gift is also lawful. You can of course give "Euroteam" 100 or more million schilling. That is also legitimate, and you can't ask that back. It is politically immoral, however, if you want foreign money – say: Tax money – in fact, to a group that has set itself the goal of indirectly enriching itself to taxpayers, but ultimately directly at the expense of the public. If one does not finally feel this immorality, but only refers to the 7.8 million schilling, which one claims back to civil law, and says: the rest was already fine, for otherwise it would have been complained!, this shows me quite clearly how you actually saw this investigation committee! They did not notice that there was a collective loss of memory among all the socialist ministers who had been witnesses there, if for example, Ms Hostasch said 27 times in her statement of information: I can't remember, it's been so long! [[Intervocation with the liberals: 26 times!]] It was only 26 times? Agreed! It is obvious to you that despite multiple insisting requests, she could no longer remember whether she has ever given an instruction in her term of office. That's all you've got away from! Nothing left! That is, the collective loss of memory continues with unhindered speed with you. They even forget between the Committee and today's plenary session that all of this is on hand! And you also forget that de facto has shown that a group has awakened and then collected needs, without control, without regard to an instance move, without real will to bring light into the dark or actually to clarify it! They forget everything, nothing must have happened! Instead, there is a single direction here, to which Minister Farnleitner ultimately stands and with which no damage has actually been done. This is now being instrumentalized, and it is trying to change political change here! The fact that the rulers have also taken people into the boat is not only an image, but that was the fact: One has even arrived to buy one's own motor boat, and before that one has established an association in which the whole Secretary of State has cheated and taken off their boat parties to discuss how they can take off the state. It turned out that careers were made by certain officials in the Social Ministry: For example, within a few months, a number of members were made by the head of the department, the head of the department or the head of the group. And it turned out that one of the speakers was who actually received the orders to draw up the funding contracts. – This is a strange circumstance, and he could not explain for himself how he came to such a career. It has already been said: Everything was played by the internal revision, other files were even directed, than were finally approved by the relevant departments. There are criminal charges. But all this is still not enough. The SPÖ obviously does not want and cannot recognize the following – but I tell you now or write it to you in the parent book –: "Euroteam" was and is a moral image of the socialist power noise, which was justified by the voters by election and punished on a sustainable basis! Thanks to the voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21930	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e21951	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! At the end of a long track, something remains to be held: Everyone just wants to be right! But if you could learn a few lessons from the whole thing, I'd like to say that... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] There you have to wait for me now! I think that the SPÖ's last defense attempt on this issue is so far-reaching that one can hold: Not all 118 million schillings, which were transferred, have gone down in the swamp a priori. – But I would have expected you to perhaps admit that you have been eaten up by a certain club, from which you have been more or less skillfully taken over. The Mr. Doppelmüller tried this. I don't think that's going to save me. On the other hand, the 118 million schillings were not exclusively to be examined, and it is worth thanking the Court of Auditors, which has worked very penetratingly on this. Of course, he could only examine the amounts of funding that came from the Ministry's sphere of influence. But there have also been others: For example, the National Bank "Euroteam" has "donated" something – under quotation marks – and therefore it will not remain in the damage of 7.8 million schilling. But finish with the numbers! In fact, this is a very different matter. A moral picture has been drawn here as to how to deal with contracts. And this should be a teaching for all, including those who have now spoken relatively great words, and especially for those colleagues of the FPÖ who, so to speak, had the grace of the first short government. If you – and this is the next conlusio – wanted to draw even further conclusions, then it is most striking that the first ones who have discovered this had to contend with the typical story: These were Mr Voggenhuber and Mr Oellinger. That is why I am saying this so that it will remain protocolable to the afterworld as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaugg.]] I know exactly what that was like at the time and what accusations the two of them faced until things started to roll very slowly. This should all be written behind the ears here, including those of the government groups that have so much pointed to the SPÖ today! That's really the conlusio. In examples of cases where we have to deal with them now, where we are confronted with quite similar accusations, once you hit the carpet, look under the carpet and question things, there is really no lack! I only mention "World Vision" or Artothek: This any list to be extended will follow us all even further! One thing, however, is a special concern to me – and this is not a small matter, it is not about 118 million schillings, but about a lot more – namely to refer me in this context also to the procedures relating to the arrival of the tender for the interception hunters: I know that there is nothing in this report, and I am now only talking about the Conlusio, which shows how and by what means is concealed. That is why I would like to suggest: Take to heart the conclusion of this report! This time, with our criticism of it, we would be in time for it! In every major armaments business, the opposition was a few years later. It is in the nature of the matter that it is often about a few percent that one could still save if awarded more efficiently, but that is a lot at 25 or 30 billion schilling! This should be a lesson from this "Euroteam" report. I am going to brighten you even more often with this sentence that I also believe that the interception, the planned purchase of the interception hunters, is the greatest waste in the history of the Second Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22012	The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22033	Mr President. High house! The Court of Auditors has reviewed public procurement to the extent of around 100 million schilling and has had to make findings that were anything but gratifying: poor order performance, non-contractual order performance, lack of project support from the awarding bodies, double tracking, billing difficulties. Finally, the whole has resulted in recoveries of around 7.8 million schillings and repayments in the order of approximately 2.7 million schillings. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's the past. However, it is not yet the past, because apart from the recoveries currently in the stage of the complaint, there is still a criminal proceedings pending, whose outcome is still open. The Court of Auditors, of course, is not satisfied with looking only at the past, but it wants to take consequences from the findings it has made and to draw from them recommendations for the future. Once again, in the context of such contracts, it has been shown that, if such defects exist on the part of the contractor in the performance of the contract, the debt is to a large extent already with the client in connection with the award of the contract, lack of performance lists and the like. This is how it has behaved in the present case. We could and had to find a whole series of award failures. In many cases, contracts were freely awarded, which should not have been awarded, and in other ways they were contrary to the procurement rules. - That's the one point. In this case, however, there is a very significant example of how the contractor is superior to the client in the design of the contract. We could find that in the course of the procurement to "Euroteam" or to all companies included in this "Euroteam" group, the contractors, i.e. "Euroteam", had a better level of information than the respective ministry. This was particularly due to the lack of coordination among the Ministries and the fact that one ministry could be played against the other by the contractors. In the end, orders from "Euroteam" could also be purchased, some of which had already been awarded by another ministry, so that in some cases – and we could see that too – things were paid twice. This has resulted in further repayments or recoveries. I think at this point you have to put the lever on: It has to be said quite clearly – and the Court of Auditors has said this – that better cooperation among the ministries must take place if procurement is to take place, in an order of around 100 million schillings. Of course, it would have been advisable, and the Court of Auditors too, for this project to carry out an overall mandate and not to award many individual orders by individual ministries and labour market services. It would then have been possible to exercise a much better control on the part of the contracting parties and to pay more attention to the fact that this contract is not at the expense of the contracting entity and thus of the taxpayer. In this context, I should therefore like to appeal to the future to draw appropriate lessons from the procurement to "Euroteam", which is free of emotion and without any special debt allocations. I am aware of the fact that you, as representatives of the political groups, will, of course, make some sort of debt allocation in this area. This is not the task of the Court of Auditors, nor is it. But overall, the consequence should be that, when such projects are started in the future, there is a co-ordination and coordination among the ministries and that – and this is said by the Court of Auditors repeatedly – the award rules that have been decided in this House are being complied with by the Ministries who are called upon to comply with these laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22078	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report III-105 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – I note that this is the majority and that it is accepted. 9. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the special report (III-76 and III-76 of the Supplements) of the Court of Auditors on the ministerial offices (906 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors pursuant to section 32e of the Rules of Procedure. 4 GOG on "testing the conduct of the Federal Chancellery and the other central offices (Bundesministerien) since 4. February 2000 in respect of the execution of all service, remuneration and pension provisions, including the 1989 tender law, in particular with regard to those in the political sphere (for example, the ministerial office) of the members of the government" (905 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22136	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Kräube has been reported. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22163	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Let us remember briefly what the Federal Chancellor said in his statement of government, in his speech of initiation. He said: With the savings we start with ourselves, with us, the Federal Government, and not with the "small people". [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: That's it!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Do you have anything against that?]] Dear colleague! But what is the outcome of this political statement? [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: Good! Very good!]] In the government offices there has been a waste of money that is unprecedented. Ladies and gentlemen! Government offices, and so you have to befriend yourself, have long become a synonym of waste and drive the taxpayers' anger red in the face. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And what, Mr. State Secretary, did Mr. Dr. Haider mean at the ORF "press hour" last Sunday? He said: The best results are proven in our departments – in other words, in the FPÖ departments. He is right, Dr. Haider, for the best results, ladies and gentlemen, have actually been achieved in FPÖ resorts, in the Forester and the Head Division. This is really record suspicious and insurmountable: 545 000 S for a unit preparation and 270 000 S for a wrong magistra. How did Dr. Haider express himself? Prove the best results! And how, ladies and gentlemen, has all this been proved? By the competent subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions? Is there an examination of the ministerial offices? No, don't! [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You don't know, you weren't there!]] Mr President, ladies Is it not symptomatic for this Federal Government by whom these evidences have been provided? By means of coverage journalistism! Yes, it is that "NEWS" has revealed this Forstinger-reference scandal. By court proceedings, Mr Colleague! It's true that this fable gage scandal has revealed a court. And by the internal revision, Mr Colleague. The Forstinger/Miko award scandal – 14 million schilling – has been revealed by an intrigue in the ministry itself. You have firmly let your ministers tell anything in parliamentary responses, and you have played in the "Small Investigation Committee" "Mister's Hide". But you, ladies and gentlemen, did not get far with these children. This unfavourable handle in the taxpayers' pockets has consequences. First: The Court of Auditors is examining the government offices, the ones where it has been driven for the best. Secondly, The critical public will continue to keep the government offices in sight. And thirdly, Many FPÖ voters are former FPÖ voters, and many ÖVP voters are former ÖVP voters. [[Abg. Grossruck: And many SPÖ voters are ÖVP voters!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr ÖVP and Mr FPÖ President-in-Office, club members and ministers! I can only congratulate you. From the point of view of the opposition you have done whole work, but from the taxpayer's point of view you have a disaster to answer.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22260	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Drinkl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22281	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today, on the one hand, the final report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors and, on the other, the special report of the Court of Auditors on the matter of ministerial offices, on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to suggest that the desire to examine the ministerial offices in the Court of Auditors subcommittee was made available by the Social Democratic Party on 9 May. ==References====External links==* Official website [[Abg. Edler: What is the success?]] The reason for this request was, of course, Mr Herb, really great: Granting of salaries of up to 200 000 S, posting of employees to up to eight supervisory councils, conclusion of employment loans to the damage of the Republic, infringement of budgetary truth and, and, It is indeed an exciting question: How does this federal government work with its closest employees? This is exciting in that, in the meantime, during the discussions, a special report of the Court of Auditors was issued, which deals with the same matter, but with the members of the Government before it. The result, ladies and gentlemen, is quite simple. [[Abg. Murauer: Trembling!]] I can tell you: Both try – no comparison! [[Abg. - Yes, the Gehrer office!]] No comparison, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The Subcommittee has clearly demonstrated that this Federal Government has kept the suggestions made in the special report by the Court of Auditors on point and point. This Federal Government respects the Court of Auditors' requirements, ladies and gentlemen. And I can tell you one thing, and take note of this: The so-called scandal has not taken place and will not take place in this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dr. Herbs, you know very well that your accusations, as they were raised, have collapsed. None of your claims could prove you. And I'll tell you why. Or: Where are the traumas of 180 000 S in the Ministry of Economic Affairs? It's not there! There's no evidence! They have repeatedly publicly said the untruth. There's no such dreaming! They didn't even have the courage to ask and have the evidence presented, dear Dr. Herbs! That's how it looks! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I can tell you one thing: "Draumgagen" probably comes from "Dreams". Obviously there is the Lord in your sleep, dear Mr. Dr. Herbs! Another thing: They claim that this Federal Government has entered into employment loans to the detriment of the Republic. [[Abg. That's true, too!]] Yes, employment loans for the damage of the Republic have been concluded, but not by this Federal Government, but, as the Court of Auditors points out, by the government in front of it. It was Mr Bundeskanzler Klima who paid a single employee 2.6 million Schilling a year, ladies and gentlemen! It was the famous State Secretary Wittmann who even managed to provide for a one-year notice in a contract of employment, which meant that 1,1 million schilling had to be paid for this employee during this time of government. There are many, many clues, the whole building has collapsed, but that has recognized the opposition and therefore also said: We're not going there anymore, that's what we have nothing to do! That's not our subcommittee! We have requested him, but we have not been there, ladies and gentlemen. I can tell you that if you had asked the questions you would have asked, you would not have had to include the following sentence in your minority report: "On the basis of the procedure chosen by the government groups, it was not possible to clarify the various accusations in the final analysis. The SPÖ Group was therefore based on information from outside and parliamentary materials... (b) the Member States shall ensure that they have access to the information referred to in point (b) of Article 3 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. That's a mistake, please! Due to your process it was not possible to get this information. Only at the previous session did you seem to have noticed that you are actually right next door. That's what Dr. Herbs meant: Should we not set aside a few more session days so that we can make up for the missing? – In the evening, the sloth becomes diligent. I told you that at the time, and I'll repeat it here, and that's it. You are prisoners of your own failed strategy, and I can finally read to you a sentence from the "Falter": National councils who yell immediately at every little thing scandal undermine their own legitimacy as a serious corrective. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Letter You'll find this in the main book: Where there's no scandal, you won't find one.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22385	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22407	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Drinkl! It may be that the Members of the opposition groups were not always present at the meeting of the Subcommittee. Why that was so, we're going to discuss it briefly. But that you run as often as you have described it, and yet so little comes along, that's also your own performance. [[Abg. Dr. Drinkl: You can't judge that! You weren't there either!]] Well, more than you believe! Above all, we will also justify precisely why we were not involved when it came to the spectacle of the majority of governments, such as a control, rather a sham control, and to pretend an investigation that is not really taking place. I can list the evidence for this claim: One can only carry out such an investigation if, first, the documents are complete. – First Schnitzer of the government or intentional error. The documents have not come enough, some even too late. It's just been said something. I would remind you of the document from the Bartenstein ministerial office. These are one and a half A4 pages, with which essentially nothing was seriously answered by what had been asked. Mr Bartenstein will already know why, because he was already negative in the drawing of this special report. At the time, he didn't really get off well if we wanted to negotiate it under one. But the essential thing is that the written documents have already shown that the government fractions do not want to work with the necessary seriousness and care, or that this is deliberately staged. And then you're asking for you to add yourself and say, Yes, wonderful, we have a document that does not contain anything in it, but now we are washed white. You can do that alone! And that's why you've been left. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Next point: It is about ministerial responsibility and in the case of Mrs. Forstinger's responsibility for ministers. And a ministerial responsibility can only be exercised primarily by the Minister and not by any section heads or other persons. It has also not helped to ensure that Justice Minister Böhmdorfer and State Secretary Finz, with whom you are now in agreement, come back to the agreement, although the subject matter of investigation has been addressed elsewhere. No one has claimed that there would be special events in the Ministry of Böhmdorfer or, for example, in the State Secretariat, which would have to be lightened up in some way. That was not the case at all, but it seemed as if someone was talking about the government and trying to answer it. That's exactly the same shale that's found entrance here. Those who really are, they've just been taken into custody. Mrs. Forstinger was not allowed, although she claimed to want to, Mr. Head was not allowed, although he claimed he wanted to. Mrs. Fabel – with her I still made a personal phone call – said that she would very much like to say in this subcommittee that she also had a lot to say. – That’s what I mean, she had a lot to say. She wondered why, as we all know, she was forced into this loan agreement, which subsequently led to uncanny flowers. Her question was not understandable at all: Is the freedom of the economy or the educational work of the industry? She just wanted to work with Minister Chief. But, no, instead, there is a temporary work construction that carried it, which later came to light. That's the problem! Overtime payments, which are such that they go beyond the double of the salary and, finally, even above the ministerial salary. These maladministrations have to be stopped, and we will discuss them even further. So, Mr. Drinkl, there's nothing out of the table at all. The real scandal, however, is that the responsible minister and the minister in front of a control body of the house either consciously push themselves or at least are prevented by the majority from expressing themselves there. It can only be one of the two. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In any case, I would suspect the responsibility for this at Black-Blue. And you actually have to answer that, and it won't help you either. The consequence of this procedure is that we do not have to be able to offer everything and a minority right will be used and – you have not yet been able to prevent this from your regulatory reforms – that the Court of Auditors has a special audit mandate and will carry out investigations in these three ministries. I do not, of course, want to prejudge the outcome, Mr Drinkl, but then we will meet again, and then we will see what the evening will bring. The Court of Auditors is certainly industrious, and I have my firm conviction as to how things will turn out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22456	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22477	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Kogler, since you were excited that Mr Bartenstein's reply was so brief: I remember someone once saying: What a fool asks can't answer a thousand ways.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22509	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I don't think that's the tone we should talk to each other. I'd ask you to make this clear!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22525	Mr President. That was a quote. [[Abg. Edler: So what?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, no herb has really grown against your insanity. [[Abg. Edler: They are inaccurate and unchallenged!]] In order to prove this inaccurateness, I would like to clarify something to you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Clarify the Fabel case!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I would like to present a little of the chronology of the course of the Court of Auditors subcommittee. ==References== March of the previous year – Mr Drinkl has already said it – the request for a subcommittee was made to establish the supposedly scandalous conditions in the ministerial offices, privileges – dear Mr Edlinger [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] [[Abg. Edlinger: What do you want from me?]] You can then take a position and do not need to make constant calls; let me speak out! – to show the mismanagement, political arbitrariness and waste of tax resources. [[Abg. Edler: How to scream into the forest...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] ==References== In April, together with the predecessor of my colleague Herb, Mr Brix, the decision was taken unanimously that the heads of the presidential sections were invited as informants. ==References== In June, Mr Kräber was already spokesperson of the Court of Auditors of his group, and he proposed that several ministers should be invited, even though six detailed questions have already been answered in detail. A consent from our site to this request was therefore not necessary. The conclusion was that both the SPÖ and the Green Group were withdrawn, with Mr Kogler – I put it to him now – very happy to stay, but apparently at the leash of my colleague was herbs. [[Abg. Edler: Was that another quote?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] ==References== ==References== In October, both political groups moved out again. I wonder how interested you are in an investigation that really is in the matter. They do not seem to be interested in the matter at all, for at the time those people who are really responsible for human resources, who have not only the competence for it, but also were actually responsible for it. Ladies and gentlemen! That clearly shows to me that when it comes to the matter, you are not at all interested. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my opinion, this is also contrary to the spirit of parliamentarianism, as a distance from meetings could actually also be considered as a refusal to work. [[Abg. Swimmling: Nice speech!]] The result of the report was that there are no privileges that there is no mismanagement and no political arbitrariness. But: As the slug thinks, so it seems. Mr Drinkl has brought some examples. [[Abg. Swimming: Bad examples!]] I would also like to give an example: the number of employees compared to the former women's ministry – Mr Prammer is unfortunately not present at the moment – who employed eleven people at the time. Do you know how much the Social Ministry has now? A total of 14.5 employees! They all know that the agendas are much more extensive than the women's sector, apart from the fact that our Minister really implements Gender Mainstreaming, which Colleague Prammer did not succeed in all these years, and this with a lot less employees. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In its special report, the Court of Auditors criticises, among other things, that the last government's employment contracts were largely inconsistent. As evidenced by the answer to the question, there already exists in each department a uniform contract pattern for employment loan contracts, which are then applied individually to the respective employee. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, Scandal can't be a talk at all. [[Abg. Eder: No, not at all!]] Our government, our ministers not only work well, but they also work efficiently. And I would also like to thank all the staff of the ministerial offices very much for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22714	The next speaker is Mr Leikam. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22735	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the audit by the Court of Auditors on how it has been conducted up to now is quite peculiar. The fact is, and I am quite on the part of Members Kogler and Herbs, that the government parties really did not give the impression that they were interested in an objective and comprehensive examination of all the accusations. At each meeting of the Subcommittee, there was a large number of requests for the loading of information. Virtually all opposition applications were erased from the table. Above all, the government parties were not willing to agree to the load of those people as persons who had something to say. Again here and today, you continue this line by placing exactly the two members on the government bank, which we certainly would like to welcome – of course, we have nothing against the fact that the Secretary of State and the Federal Minister for Justice have come – alone: It was not about them in the obvious Causa. Today, we would have liked to ask once again a question to Federal Minister Forstinger, who would have liked us to ask Federal Minister Chief and also Federal Minister Bartenstein. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Martin Graf.]] You're not here! So even today, the opposition is not possible to get their questions answered. They were not interested in a reconnaissance. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: We have always only had Wittmann! Four years!]] Yes, but Wittmann had something to say! [[Call to the liberals: You don't believe that yourself!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fact is, and you can't wipe from the table that there have been these high references and this abundance of employment loan contracts in the ministries and still exists. You can't talk about that! For example, what is not at all explainable is the fact that Ms. Ute Fabel, head of the office at Landeshauptmann's deputy Reichhold in the Carinthian state government, has been directly changed from this place of work to the office of the Social Minister in Vienna, directly, i.e. without having been employed somewhere in the meantime. On her way from the Carinthian state government to the Social Ministry, however, she apparently had to look past the ring of the Freedom-Employer in Florianigasse 16/8 – Mr Hofmann – in order to conclude such an employment loan contract. After all, this is a process that we would have liked to have received a little more information from you, how such a thing is possible. Why does Mrs Ute Fabel, when she changes from the Carinthian state government to the Social Ministry, have to run through the Free Trade Association so that she can obtain such a contract of employment, which she did not want in this form, as she said herself and as confirmed by Mr Kogler? [[Abg. Gaugg: Not everyone can come from the union! There have to be some others too!]] Why did you prevent Mrs. Fabel from coming to the Subcommittee as an informer? She'd like to come. But I know her statement, which she also made to Carinthian media, because this statement can be read: I, Ute Fable, am not a single case with my 270 000 s monthly reference. – This is what Mrs. Ute Fabel told the Carinthian media. Mrs Hartinger! So that's what happened. If that, as you say, is not a privilege, then what is a privilege? 277,000 S monthly reference! [[Abg. Gaugg: This is nothing compared to the BAWAG director!]] Or half a million schillings for the personality development of the Minister of Transport. If these are not privileges, what are privileges? There is still this wealth of rental contracts: twelve in the office of Mrs Forstinger, eleven in the office of Mr Social Minister, twelve in Mr Bartenstein's office. So it's still going on. I am curious, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council, perhaps you can also take a short look at the following. The Court of Auditors has made good proposals on how to deal with these temporary work contracts in the future. Perhaps you can also tell us if there have been these high references, because that is what the speakers of the government parties have said. It's said that didn't exist. Perhaps you can give us this information, whether what has been taken up by us has actually been so. But above all, we are interested in how these employment contracts continue and whether your suggestions have already been taken up by the government. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: You have not been able to give the impression from the first session to the last day and even today in the debate in Parliament that you are interested in a complete investigation of all these incidents. The opposite is the case! You prove this with your attitude today and in the committees!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22824	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22846	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! The work in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee on this audit report last year was quite interesting. A good comparison was offered by the Court of Auditors' report on the same subject. However, during the term of office of the last Federal Government. The opposition, especially colleague herbs, actually only wanted to subtract a media spectacle. There was actually little to see from constructive work within the meaning of the test order. How else would it be to explain that you leave three sessions in advance, so simply and simply refuse the work? To complain afterwards that one does not get answers to questions one would have liked to ask, but of course one could not ask because of one's own refusal to work, is more than comic behavior, he said. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And how indifferent and how unapproached it has been, just to catch attention in the media, these show two of the colleagues herbs. On the one hand, he raised the accusation, in the office of Federal Minister Bartenstein there was an employee who would earn 180 000 S per month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] This accusation has been taken out of the air by President-in-Office of the Council and rejected without letup. Col. Herb was invited to a visit by Federal Minister Bartenstein’s Chief of Cabinet so that he could give himself an overview of the contracts. However, the Cabinet Bartenstein is still waiting for this visit. It is probably a lack of courage from my colleague Herb. The courage left him. Colleagues! Second, you have to say: Is it really necessary, then, to qualify the staff at the ministerial offices in the media in this way and actually to pour out how you did that? Such attacks have not deserved these people, for they strive daily to deliver best work for Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A small example – so much about employment contracts, as far as the number is concerned –: Ex-Bundeskanzler Klima, who, if you are allowed to believe media reports, now feels very comfortable in Argentina, replied to the one on 16 May. In December 1998, Question 5432/J submitted that there were 57 temporary contracts and that the costs in 1998 were at least 38 352 129.99 S. – So much on the issue of the number of employment contracts and savings. Ladies and gentlemen! The current Federal Government has made significant improvements in terms of temporary employment contracts compared to the last Federal Government and has implemented many suggestions from the Court of Auditors. All the accusations in the Committee's work were unfounded and unfounded. It is to be thanked to the applicants for this verification mandate. Perhaps the opposition has now detected its shot in the oven tube. However, that would never be admitted. Finally, a request to the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition: Read the Committee's report and read the different personal opinions. These texts show who consistently worked and who only wanted media interest. – The comparison makes sure.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22915	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22936	Mr President. Gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I shall try to address here a modest area of this problem. Otherwise, I think he'll go down in this discussion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the question whether an employee or an employee deserves more or less than a Federal Minister. Thank you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, very often you have made it clear: Employment contracts should be an exception. I think we have every opportunity to make provision for the framework conditions for employees in the cabinets, both in service law and in remuneration law. In particular, it was also the Chamber of Commerce which expressed how good the public service is in the Republic of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! If the public service in our country has a high quality, if it is even a determining and important factor for Austria's economic location, I ask you – and it's not the first time – here from the speaker's desk: How to deal with colleagues in the public service? What do thousands of colleagues think if only the rationalizations and savings are discussed when additional benefits are removed when Pragmatizations are stopped when contract staff are first afraid of being discharged in the history of the Second Republic? Ladies and gentlemen! If we are really punishing the sick and if we go to the public service sector and talk to our colleagues, we are asked: What does politics or the public say about it when it learns from the newspapers that, as far as income is concerned, not even the heads of sections are meant, but ladies and gentlemen, who, in total, deserve more than members of the government? Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! If this is access to the savings and to our public service – I am no longer talking about justice at all – you have to make a big question mark here. It's interesting – and I'm looking at some of the ÖAAB's officials now – that this is not over-fragmentally judged by the employee's representative. The friends of the Christian Group, but also the friends of the AUF and, of course, the Social Democrats have no pleasure in this process. I believe that, just as the Court of Auditors has repeatedly pointed out, employment loans can only be an exception. And I also believe that we have a high-quality service right and a proper remuneration right. I therefore believe that these questions and these discussions are justified. Since the opposition has always been raised here today, I would like to remind you of the fact that the opposition has gone away from the meetings: If you want to ask a certain personality, and someone else comes over and over again – think about what you're going to ask! I almost regret the Minister of State and the Secretary of State. There has also been a lot of time in the committees, and there has never been any question – and never any accusation – to these two members of the government. It would have been all over the stage if the mentioned and the affected had come. Then we would have discussed this in committee, we would have saved ourselves work and time together, and perhaps we would have done a good job in the matter and in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e22990	The next speaker is Mr Zellot. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23011	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Pendl, you are perfectly right: It has taken a lot of time for those mandates who have always visited this committee. Ladies and gentlemen! This subcommittee on the review and conduct of the ministries was of course also important because the citizens who want to know voters are: What happens here – at the top, in Vienna, in the individual ministries? I think this is of course also good, and I am grateful for the fact that, as chairman, there has been Mr Gaugg. If the Presidency had gone to another opposition party, we would have run the risk that this subcommittee would not take place because the chairman would probably have been expelled. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: You are in government!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I believe that only those Members of Parliament who were present can judge the content and issues in this subcommittee. If you have received unsatisfying answers, you have also been able to ask questions. This was, of course, the case in this subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen! Chronologically well built up, as was said about data protection, about overtime pay, about the rewards, about the working methods and the nature and necessity of the employment loan contracts, it would have been good for some mandaters to know that temporary employment contracts are important for various ministries. I know there are good officials, very good officials and top officials, but in different areas it is also important to get specialists from the economy and from other areas that can bring their special experience and expertise from their profession there. A scandal in this committee was the accusations of the opposition that did not vote. It was also a scandal that you did not take part in three sessions. They have not – including as applicants – demonstrated the will for this subcommittee, for educational work.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23065	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23086	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to thank my previous speaker for the clarification that the FPÖ still understands itself as being in the opposition. That's how he described it to us now, and I think it's so clear and clearly defined. This also explains how the FPÖ behaved in some debates and how it has behaved specifically in recent weeks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think that such a committee, if the FPÖ were still in opposition, would have been led by Mr Gaugg. I think that she has once understood herself as a cover-up party and cannot now find herself in this role, as one so to speak disregards opposition rights in such a way that one really rejects every request of the opposition and is not at all willing to ensure that a little light is brought into the dark matter in the ministerial offices. It was also a very important personal experience for me, as is the case with the opposition: there was no one way to submit applications that would then also receive approval, and no possibility of questioning a person requested from us. I do not think that this government should be of any importance in bringing transparency into its procedures in the ministerial offices. There is no transparency, and this government obviously has an disturbed relationship with precisely these democratic instruments and probably also with this democracy. Since 5. In this Standing Subcommittee, we have been working on it in eight meetings on April 2001. I would like to say that we have been very likely to take part in the work, but I did not think it would be useful to consult individuals who – as my colleagues have already noted – have done improperly in their offices. [[Abg. Böhacker: With press releases!]] I would have liked to know from Mrs. Forstinger why the number of her employees has now increased to threefold. I would also like to ask Mr Bartenstein a lot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] There has already been a catalogue of questions from our group at the very beginning. You can imagine, of course, that the request for this catalogue was also rejected by the government groups. These include, for example, questions such as: Which staff of the ministerial office or the office of a possible State Secretary are entrusted with management functions in other organizational units? In which organizational units? – To answer these questions would have been useful. Or: Which staff of the ministerial office or the office of a possible State Secretary shall perform side-by-side activities and/or remuneration supervisory functions? What are their incomes from these ancillary activities? Perhaps it would have been possible to find out by Minister Bartenstein what is happening in the ÖIF, the Austrian Institute for Family Research, because there were 56 million schillings distributed to the association from 1994 to 2000, and that without involving the Minister of Finance in any form. Ladies and gentlemen! This too would have had a right to be informed on this committee. Ladies and gentlemen! I must therefore note that this government probably has no access to bring transparency into these issues and that this blue-black federal government has an disturbed relationship with democracy. [[Abg. Böhacker: Have we heard!]] This is proof to me that we must all the more be the guardians of democracy in this country. We owe our electorate and all Austrians to ensure that democracy is respected in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23162	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23184	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Today we have to deal with Court of Auditors reports and audit reports in four points, and everywhere we see the same look and feel. The opposition is attacking and must then take note in the debate that she is the very one who is the cause of all these tests. So she'd have to take her nose and say: Mea culpa, actually I'm meant. Ladies and gentlemen! This moves like a red thread, the location determines the position. Everything was normal with your government – among the German Chancellors Vrannitzky or climate. That's where it was normal for you to take a job. That's where it was normal to have overpaid them. As it was even normal under State Secretary Wittmann for someone to be employed a year longer than the legislative period, and it was normal for this temporary worker to be paid one year more with a million. All of this was normal, and there was nothing to do with it. All that was on the agenda, but everything was paletteti and all right. Now a new government is at work and on the row, a government reforming Austria, a government that will bring Austria back to its order – and now, at once, nothing is all right. Ministers have adhered to the Court of Auditors' recommendations, to the recommendations made by the President and his staff, and now it comes out and criticises that temporary employment contracts are also being made here. Ladies and gentlemen! Lending contracts – in the case in question – are useful facilities. You think it's better if a minister recruits his closest staff and then shares a fate like that of Mr Wittmann, so that they have to go back after four years, even though they may be skilled professionals who have given up their profession? Or it is not better to decide this from case to case: If I need a professional, do I guarantee which one without the risk for me that they will have to stay without the risk to the taxpayer that he will still have to pay it after the period, and without the risk for the rental worker himself that he will be there without a job? It is common not only in Austria, but in Europe and all over the world that such a thing happens. If it goes well and goes well, I do not think it is necessary to do anything about it at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you criticize today is exactly what you have done yourself. You have paid 200 percent more, as you can see when you look at the Court of Auditors' report. They even had to pay 400 000 s for overtime to a loan worker. Please read on pages 17 and 18 – You are powerful in reading – there you can see what was noted under your rule. Mr Herbe has said that the current government, since its inception, has celebrated a "money waste care". Mr Herbe, if you mean that the new ministers found their offices empty, that the phone cables were torn out and the computers were shut down, that the new ministers had found a siege state and then had their offices set up so that they could work, then you mean something right, but not if you think it was a waste of money! [[Abg. Prince: Ministry of Interior! Ministry of Finance!]] Whether it happened in the Ministry of Finance, whether it happened in the Ministry of the Interior, whether it happened to Minister One – you have had to retrofit everywhere. They were the causers that more money was needed for the ministerial offices because these offices had to be re-established! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Take note of this! It's not the first time we've talked about it. That's always coming up, but you're nagging it. Ask your own former ministers how they left their offices behind. Anyway, not so... [[Abg. May. Mühlbachler: This is limited to Masochism!]] Yes, this is bordering on Masochism – thank you very much, Mr. Mühlbachler! Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the end and refer to the saying: "Quod licet Iovi, non licet bovi." – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you have been in the place of the Iovi for decades. Take note that you have exchanged the place and the Jupiter is now another one! You also respond accordingly, that is to say, as is required by citizens and by state-bearing mandates.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23246	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23268	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have heard several times today of the prevention of the pre-loading of Federal Minister Bartenstein, Chief and Forstinger by the ÖVP and FPÖ delegates in the Standing Subcommittee. To this end, it should be noted that: If you had nothing to hide, you could have agreed to these charges of quiet conscience. It seems to you, however, that it would be extremely unpleasant for your ministers to speak and answer the questions of the opposition. It would have been extremely interesting for us to learn from Mrs. Forstinger, which is the reason why 19 service relations were settled in their closest environment within a year. To a large extent, these persons were employed by means of employment contracts. It is expected that such short-term resolutions will entail follow-up costs in the form of claims on the part of workers. [[Abg. Böhacker: Are you against the claims? Are you against employees?]] It would also be very interesting for the public to know why an external business representative, a certain Dr. Haberleitner, was engaged in a daily of 30 000 S or 2 180 € according to the instructions of Mrs. Forstinger for the German Federal Society for Industrial Policy Measures. At the same time, Dr. Haberleitner was appointed a Supervisory Board member of the GBI. As an advisor, he therefore has to support the board of directors which he would have to control as a Supervisory Board. Or: Two companies supported Mrs. Forstinger for a 45-minute lecture and collected the proud sum of € 545 000 or € 39 606. My question to the Members of the Government: Where's the spasm here? – Instead, you save on the accident pensioners. They save on pensioners. They are against a heating subsidy for people with low incomes. They are starving our rural regions. They include Post Offices, District Courts and Gendarmerie Posts. However, as regards the number of contracts concluded, it is also known that Mrs. Forstinger paid an administrative contribution to the various workers' redundancies. Interestingly, a majority of temporary workers either came from the Institute for Education Research of the Economy – this is ÖVP-near – or from the Ring of Freedom-Economics. Also interesting is that according to "profile" of 12. November of last year Mrs. Forstinger in her cabinet now has five personal speakers, including – as I could now know – a personal office manager, a personal press officer, a personal secretary, a personal appointment officer and a personal speaker. [[Abg. Neudeck: It's a big resort!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So what? What are you scratching?]] This had to – I could now know – choose curtains, for example, to get Christmas billets, loops and meshes for Christmas gifts. Here too, there is a need for a lot of information. There are also many questions about the appointment of a third managing director of ARC Seibersdorf Research. As media reports can be seen, there came the next shamelessly executed party chess. ==References====External links== January 2002 appointed ex-FPÖ Minister of State Dr. Helmut Krunes as Managing Director of Holding. The question arises of the qualification of Dr. Krunes – apart from the possession of a FPÖ party book – but also of the incompatibility of his pension with the function of President of Research Austria. Furthermore, according to my information, the Secretary-General of Research Austria should be a research representative in the cabinet of Mrs. Forstinger. These points, which I have now added, are just a few of many. They are all waiting for Mrs Forstinger's reply. Not to cover up or hide, but information in the sense of the taxpayer is now announced!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23332	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23353	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Miss – President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors' special report on the ministerial offices has shown me one thing very clearly: The Social Democratic Ministries had less competence, they had less implementation, but they had much more costs and employees. The stony guest on the government bank, Wittmann, managed to cancel a temporary employment contract in his State Secretariat only one year after his retirement, because it was so "skilled". This has caused another 1.2 million schilling of costs, in addition to the debt mountain that our Minister of Finance Edlinger left behind. Mr Schieder smiles. This is to be neglected in comparison to what Edlinger left us? - That's perfectly right. It is to be thanked to the officials and the President of the Court of Auditors for having done their work, despite great media opposition and despite the refusal of work of the Social Democratic and Green Members of the Subcommittee, who have repeatedly proved this by extracting from the committees, although fully informed representatives of the respective ministers would have been there and had spoken and answered. This refusal of employment has not prevented the Court of Auditors from pointing out in a proper way that more work is now being done and lower costs are incurred. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy and Greens! In addition to this refusal to work, the speeches of the social-democratic previous speakers have shown me that you could not think into the future. That's what we saw when you ruled this country. Your current speeches show me that you can't look back into the past either.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23396	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23416	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors – he has just left! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it would have been fair for the representatives of the government parties to go out and say: Yeah, we're ruling, and we made mistakes too. – That would be fair. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: "Wrong too"?]] For example, we have also admitted that the "Euroteam" is not pleasant for us: that in the dark circle of our party some "young doors" have settled and have abused the good idea of helping young people. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Young Turks"?]] But you don't have the courage to go out and say, Yeah, here we made mistakes, and here millions would be saved. – The reports clearly state that millions of taxpayers have been squandered here. That won't get you away! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where? The Euroteam?]] No, your policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is legitimate for a Federal Minister or a head of government to bring relatives to his office in the event of a change of government – that is how it is in all free democracies. But not how you did it! Today, it has been repeatedly mentioned what happened at the head of the Social Minister, and especially with Mrs. Forstinger, who, like the Committee today, refuses to do so: that there have been double occupations and that qualified officials who, as Mr Pendl has mentioned today, have really done good work and wanted to do so repeatedly, have been sent to walk. A Mr Miko has been brought there; we could look at where this gentleman comes from. [[Abg. Böhacker: "Such a gentleman"? What does that mean?]] What has he done in the economy? What businesses has he already brought to ruin? Who even made him get a job loan contract there? Ladies and gentlemen! If you take the Court of Auditors' criticism seriously that there is no legal basis for these contracts, you would have to act here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since I have only a short speaking time, I conclude. – It is sad, it hurts the Austrians. As a social democrat, I could say: Just continue your driving policy, you'll help us win a big election. You will probably experience this in a very short time. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What do you understand?]] This driving policy has an end, people will no longer carry it because they feel it!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23517	Next speaker is Deputy Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23535	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, I must also address you personally from here, because I felt that you were the driving force behind many things that have happened there throughout the work of this committee. They were the driving force from very personal motives until then you lost the courage. Mr Herzegovina! You said here today that there was "ministerial hiding". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] No, no, no, It has not been played in secret, but it has been hidden at many meetings by Members of this House, namely representatives of the opposition parties, who, whenever they were concerned with doing work, have suddenly withdrawn and let us work on our own. You've been hiding, not the ministers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Herzegovina! To your reasoning for your extracts, it would have been necessary to hear the ministers in order to be able to exercise political responsibility: That is not the case, Mr Herzegovina. This subcommittee would have been there and has also been used by the government groups to collect and show the relevant facts. But not every single Federal Minister has to be presented for this! And it was you, including the representatives of the opposition parties, who took part in the unanimous decision to invite the section heads and the heads of the presidential departments to the committee for information. As the latter were then in the committee, however, you went out and worked on our own and let us do the job. That was the work of this committee of inquiry, and unfortunately your contribution was missing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] High house! I would just like to refer to the justification of this request concerning this subcommittee: The purpose and purpose of this subcommittee was to establish and review various facts by the applicant groups in order to ensure that the results are reported to the Court of Auditors and subsequently to the National Council through consultation of information subjects and the collection of written opinions. But how did it go? – It was done exactly what you wanted, but without your participation! Survey reports were collected by all ministries on the ministerial offices, and the essential information, including the heads of the presidencies of the individual ministries, was invited and heard. However, you have refused your cooperation! What was the result? – I can also tell you this because you were not involved in this work: The result was, among other things, that, compared with the 1998 Court of Auditors report, 58 temporary employment contracts existed in the ministerial offices alone at the time, 37 in the SPÖs and 21 in the ÖVPs, whereas according to the current surveys in the subcommittee, there are only 51 temporary employment contracts. [[Abg. Böhacker: Aha!]] – This is not only less than seven temporary employment contracts – this is not the springing point, because the Court of Auditors as such do not consider the temporary employment contracts to be negative, they have their reasons – but it is also particularly important that the temporary employment contracts, which have now been concluded and which we have also been able to examine in the subcommittee, have been improved in quality and the requirements set out by the Court of Auditors in its special report have been fully fulfilled. But not only that: There are no significant references to secondary activities such as supervisory functions in comparison to the past and, above all, to the SPÖ ministries at that time, and if such secondary activities still exist in the Supervisory Board meetings, they are in a material context with the activity of the respective staff in the ministerial office.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23591	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23612	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hartinger, you spoke of some kind of "norse". I didn't even refer to myself. [[Abg. May. Hartinger: I didn't mean that personally!]] – I expected that! But I've been looking at this: The fact that you referred to was, as I expected, a unanimous committee decision, and it was a matter of asking all ministries to deliver certain documents. And I now call on you as the new chairperson of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Court of Auditors to refrain from acting as a fool! They're not just FPÖ delegates! You are also a parliamentarian, and if Parliament adopts a unanimous decision and ministers do not wish to comply with this decision quite clearly, then it is a bit strange if you, as Members, put the whole thing in the corner of the Narretei! You don't do anything good yourself! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Get out of the corner! As the leader of the political groups, you also have a different responsibility than to make the wall of the government here.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23662	Mrs Hartinger referred to an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23686	Mr President. Mr Kogler, I am actually correct: You claim that I would have taken this unanimous decision as a fool. - That wasn't my intention. Instead, I have been referring – and you can read this in the Minutes – to the fact that you undersigned Minister Bartenstein that he did not answer the question exactly. That's what I've been referring to.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23719	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23741	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! As a speaker at the end of the list of speakers, I still have a special concern at this point – like many of my previous speakers – to refer to the Polish media spectacle that you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, have organised with all the press conferences. The Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors has been deliberately abused by you to make our government work public! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You were actually not interested in the truth, otherwise you would not have left our committee in advance! Mr Herzegovina! Mr Kogler! They both tried to raise a media heat. However, the population has soon proved to be superfluous in their production, and you have also forgotten something in your production, namely that cabinet workers in the ministries are doing extremely compressed and high-quality work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They have put these employees down as if they were taking away something from our citizens. This is limited to insulting those employees who work an average of 70 hours a week! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Because our official scheme does not always meet the specific requirements of the Ministries in terms of quality and quantity, employment loans are often the right instrument. As the Court of Auditors' report and the Committee of Inquiry's minutes show, there is basically no concern as to how to achieve trustworthy and suitable people with special skills in certain areas. These people also have the possibility of uncomplicated return to their profession. With the criticism of the Court of Auditors, cross-ministerial harmonisation, clear overtime arrangements, corresponding termination periods and expiring arrangements were suggested, which has already been greatly improved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] This may be ridiculous, but I do not think that this employee would be laughing, Mr Kogler and Mrs Lichtenberger! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I should like to remind you once again that under the government team of the Federal Chancellor Klima there were employment loan contracts, according to which the wage by 126 percent was higher than the maximum amount for federal staff. The amount of the annual gross reference amount was due to individual overtime accounts of more than 450 000 S. Also in the Edlinger cabinet, employment loans were 60 percent above that, and so the list of former SPÖ ministers could be continued. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] I do not want to judge whether it is right or wrong, I only point out to you what turn the SPÖ has made. Ladies and gentlemen! The Audit Committee of the Court of Auditors has in no way recognized the allegations of the opposition as correct! On the contrary! Irregularities from ancient and earlier times have already been improved.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23822	The President of the Court of Auditors has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23843	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Court of Auditors has carried out an examination of the ministerial offices on behalf of the then opposition party, and it has very soon found that the issue of employment loan contracts is a central problem in this context. With regard to these contracts of employment, the Court of Auditors was not able to find any violations of the law but failed to comply with the laws. In this context, he felt that he was particularly angry with the fact that these staff members were already employed in the ministry, and that these staff were then continued to work in the same department by means of employment loans for higher remunerations. And to do that, I have to say with all my determination: That is why the Court of Auditors does not have the slightest understanding. [[Congratulations and bravo call with the greens.]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] While the Court of Auditors considers that employment loans are legally permissible, they should be the exception, the exception to those cases for which special remunerations and other special service provisions appear appropriate due to the special burden on ministerial offices. On the basis of his experience in auditing, he has defined certain criteria to be met by these employment contracts. Firstly, it is necessary to require that a clear requirement profile for such a position should be created in the ministerial office and that this requirement profile be met by the person or person who is covered by such posts. In addition, employment loans should only be concluded with those who have special skills which are not available in the ministry and which cannot be expected in the ministry. Finally, such contracts must be concluded over a limited period of time so that these contracts do not go beyond the term of the legislative period and the term of office of the Minister, which was the case and which could also be determined. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] In addition, these employment contracts – which should not be forgotten – must have reasonable costs; they should be in any relationship with the public servants. One of my previous speakers was said to be of particular importance to this criterion, and the Court of Auditors is doing so in the same way. Contracts must not be concluded on the basis of which the references go far beyond normal salaries in the public service. Finally, it should also be noted that the contracts concluded between the Ministry and the temporary employers are such that they are transparent and comprehensible and that there is no suspicion that funds may flow somewhere else. I do not want to say that the Court of Auditors wanted to make statements here, that it was not able to make any observations on this, but in the discussion there were always suspicions that these funds should perhaps be paid differently. In order to prevent this from happening, the Court of Auditors requires transparent contracts. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In In the course of this debate, several speakers assured that after the Court of Auditors' examination of its recommendations, which I have just expressed, had been met. We are not yet able to comment on this. However, the Court of Auditors has now received from the two opposition parties the task of examining the operations and conditions in the ministerial offices. The examination has not yet begun, so at the moment I cannot make any statement as to whether the conditions in the ministerial offices have improved significantly or not. It is clear, however, that the Court of Auditors will also be able to produce at the moment those standards which it has set out in the report which is under discussion today in the examination of the ministries, and it will then be able to present a report to this House, informing whether the Court of Auditors' recommendations have been taken into account, how these recommendations have been taken into account and whether improvements have actually been made. And these improvements – which is firmly stated – appear appropriate after the in-depth examination.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23922	No one is reporting on this. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall proceed to the vote, which will be carried out separately on each request. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of the Court of Auditors' special report on the ministerial offices. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request from the Committee to give an appropriate sign. – The request was adopted by a majority. We shall vote on the request of the Committee of the Regions, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG on the examination of the conduct of the Federal Chancellery and the other central offices since 4. The Council adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the European Economic Area on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the one hand, and the European Economic Area on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement on the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Area on I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also adopted by majority vote. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of its report in 905 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the request to take note of this report for a sign. – The report shall be taken note of by majority vote in 905 of the Supplements. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the follow-up to the Court of Auditors' Activity Report (To III-73 of Supplements) for the 1999 financial year (957 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e23985	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. I do not have a wish for oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Lapp is speaking. I've set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24012	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! At the beginning of the day, we discussed the report of the Public Prosecutor's Office and at the end of this meeting we discussed the Court of Auditors' report. I think these are two very essential institutions in our state: The People's Procuratorate is responsible for citizens who have been caught in the lines of bureaucracy and need support and help. And at the current item on the agenda, we are dealing with the Court of Auditors, whose task is to review economic behaviour and procedures and to ensure that various control and evaluation measures are taken. We have discussed this supplement to the Court of Auditors' activity report from A to Z, from the tax collection to the agricultural market paying agency Austria, and have gained many new insights in many intensive discussions. I think it is very essential and valuable that we always pay close attention to how taxpayers are used, that processes in organizations and in the bureaucracy are made more efficient, effective and designed in such a way that they benefit both the state and the citizens. – This evaluation and these controlling instruments are a very essential area. Of course, we have also discussed certain measures, because this government is now committed to making new business divisions in ministries, sometimes reminding an observer from outside of poker games rather than professional discussions. This government is also carrying out a lot of disseminations in this area. And it has also been critically noted by Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors or put to the discussion that this, of course, reduces the scope for control. I thank you for the work of the Court of Auditors, which is very essential and important. Already in the context of an earlier discussion, it has been shown that the staff of the Court of Auditors will have many more tasks. I believe it is important that it is not under the guise of the zero deficit or a more slender state, which should only serve to improve customer orientation for citizens, that there are cuts, but that the posts and staff plan can be designed at the Court of Auditors in such a way that it continues to be effective in controlling and evaluating. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24049	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. The watch is gladly set to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24070	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! The work of the Court of Auditors includes a whole compendium of audits. First of all, I would like to thank the President and his staff very much for this extensive work. We too have been over it for long hours and days. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I think we have discussed and discussed this Court of Auditors report in detail. I would just like to take one important point very briefly: the airport Vienna GesmbH, which has been illuminated with acribie. And in turn, there was a red thread going through under SPÖ's responsibility, so to speak. [[Abg. Murauer: So really a red thread!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Aha!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, public prosecutors' advertisements and court hearings have occurred, and, as the Court of Auditors notes, orders awarded by mismanagement and non-compliance with rules have come to a possible amount of damage or a loss of assets – listen to Edler! – of 102.97 million schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler]] Now, if you're gonna convert this into euro, I'll pull my hat! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] It is noteworthy that the current Supervisory Board, chaired by Director-General Coreth from Lower Austria, has responded perfectly to this criticism. They have explained this to us in the committee, and we are all convinced that in the future it will no longer be possible to come to terms with such errors and mismanagement as the Court of Auditors has pointed out at the Vienna GesmbH airport! I can also say that GesmbH Airport will no longer be examined by the Court of Auditors because, after the partial privatisation of the Court of Auditors, we will no longer be responsible, but we can have full confidence in the new Supervisory Board that such things will no longer happen in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24145	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24166	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Let's stay at the airports, let's look at Graz Airport and do something different: In this case, let us praise a revised institution! This is not even unwitting and, above all, it is not irrelevant. I can say that as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I have only one area, namely construction at Graz Airport, where it is obvious that in view of what is normally used to, construction investments have been relatively exemplary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fink.]] This should also be done in the meantime – thanks for the call! – can be worked out. Because of the short speaking time, I want to leave it here. We will – you can join – make an operational visit to Graz Airport on this gratifying occasion and discuss things there. I am already on the next topic: Graz Airport will have problems with its civil use if it continues with the interception craftsmanship so happy. I know that many of you are now going to say that this is not happening in this report. If you had made such a call, I would have said: Would you have read more precisely! This report also includes the procurement of multi-purpose helicopters. And in analogy to this, I would like to say that, as soon as business rules are possible, we will urgently have to deal with the current events relating to the procurement of the interception hunters. I'll just give you one word: Calculation You're going to find out how much a percent of 30 billion is. It doesn't matter whether you're for or against the procurement of interceptors: A clear control activity, carried out in good time in this area, saves the Republic a lot of money! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have enough information this time – not as usual – in time, we have many unfortunately dense indications that it is not right here and that many buying-prices are determined. I can conclude that, by the way, I consider the planned purchase of the interception hunters to be the greatest waste in the history of the Second Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24223	Next speaker: Mrs Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24245	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr. State Secretary! High house! As you can see, the supplement to the 1999 activity report is very comprehensive. I should also like to thank all the examiners on behalf of my group – and I would like to say to you, Mr President – and to note that in my view it is a pity that we are only discussing this report at the beginning of 2002. I would like more time for such reports. I would like to draw attention to one of the areas I am very concerned about, namely the main association of social security schemes: They suggested that a controlling would be necessary here in order to develop performance indicators compared to the individual social security institutions. – Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you, and also the President of the Court of Auditors, that yesterday I was at a monitoring meeting of the social security institutions and that there is a report on this matter: Codes for local health telephones. This shows how quickly the individual self-government bodies, in this case the main association of social security institutions, worked. I am pleased that a recommendation has been implemented so quickly. I think that is also in the sense of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24275	The next speaker is Mr Kaipel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24296	Mr President! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' report, which is under discussion, is in various respects a massive criticism of the conduct of the ÖIAG, namely that there is no comprehensive corporate concept and no precise privatisation concepts and that privatisation expenses are also not planned and controlled. This appears to be necessary and important in the sizes involved. I am already looking forward to the following Court of Auditors reports, which will deal with the period from 2000. We will then see how much money for which consultants was almost moved behind the curtain. These reports will show us whether it makes sense for the privatization of Telekom Austria to be employed both by ÖIAG and by Deutsche Telekom external consultants, as did the Minister of Finance in an APA communication on 14 April. Janen let me know. In any event, the Court’s recommendations have not been implemented. In contrast, however, the brutal personnel policy we already know from the main association, from the ORF and from other areas has also been implemented in the ÖIAG. Nor was the government too good to spend hundreds of millions of schilling on this recoloring action. In addition to this catastrophic personnel policy, there is also a very unprofessional activity in privatising the ÖIAG state shares. In media, banking and stock exchange reports there are constantly new rumors, which naturally leads to uncertainty among investors and investors. This undoubtedly also harms the domestic industry, but above all the market square in Vienna. That is why, Mr Finz, and your boss, you are finally asked to clarify these issues in order to enable the undertakings concerned to be planned in the medium and longer term. The programme for selling abroad is under way. As we know, some time ago, Austria's tobacco plants went abroad to 100 percent. The same can and may also happen at Postbus AG. As reported in APA reports of 14. The sale of the ÖBB abroad is also ventilated to January. Similarly, Telekom Austria will happen, and if the post will be stock exchangeable in 2003, then there will probably not be a strong Austrian buyer for the stock packages, so that even here a migration to abroad can be feared. However, the strong foreign interest proves, on the other hand, that the public companies concerned have great potential for the future, otherwise this interest would not exist. This is exactly what is lost forever after a sale to Austria abroad. First, the central banks will migrate, then research and development will follow, and the final step will be to relocate production to low-cost countries. This also means less competition, rising prices and, at the same time, fewer jobs. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the wrong way. We need more competition in the interests of workers and consumers, we need a holding of participation instead of a privatisation holding. Ladies and gentlemen! This policy of selling and privatising is a serious economic error which you, my group, have Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups to be held responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24345	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Pecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24366	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. High house! The Court of Auditors report on the privatisation of the ÖIAG between 1995 and 1999 shows one thing quite clearly: The proceeds and results of privatisation have been significantly better over the last two years than the privatisation revenues from 1995 to 1999, more than double in less than half of the time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These high proceeds relieve the Austrian Federal Budget and, of course, the Austrian taxpayers, because there were ever more liability and increased liability for the ÖIAG commitments, which were even further increased in the years 1995 to 1999. At the end of 1999, ÖIAG could not even repay its interest rates. This has changed today, and ÖIAG can repay interest from its normal running business. Do not pretend to have been so bad for the taxpayer. I just refer to the example of Telekom shares quoted so often by you: plus 10 percent one year after the issue. I mean, many investors today would wish they had only invested in Telekom shares at that time. Very briefly on foreign sales. I would just like to remind you: 1993: a 100 % sale of ASA to a French company, 1996: 77 percent of the VAMED to German and VA Berg Technik to 100 percent to a Finnish company. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not about foreign or domestic, it is about the best proceeds and discharges for Austrian taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24411	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24432	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Privatise at all costs and without regard to losses – this is obviously one of the top principles of this federal government. Unfortunately, the ÖIAG has become the party-political ball of this federal government. Unloving managers were exchanged, that was sweetened with about 270 million schillings, and overhaste privatisation steps were initiated. The Austrian Industrieholding AG will now be issued a thorough witness in the course of the supplementary report of the Court of Auditors for the 1999 administrative year. What is missing and recommended by the Court of Auditors in its audit report is, in particular, the preparation of an overall business concept, the improvement of EU competitiveness, detailed planning and control of the costs to be incurred for privatisation, and the introduction of an open privatisation procedure in procurement procedures. However, what we are lacking in particular is a forward-looking economic and industrial policy in which ÖIAG could play an important role as a holding company. Instead of selling out well-foliating domestic industrial companies, instead of waging family silver, as the Federal Government is currently operating, ÖIAG's companies must in future be concerned with ensuring the strategic ownership function in order to enable the Republic of Austria to play the role of a strategic core shareholder. A year ago, the full-fledged announcement of this government was to increase the funding for research and development to 2.5 percent. In the meantime, they have even fallen from 1.8 percent in the previous year to 1.7% of GDP. It threatens to sell out Group headquarters and important corporate parts. Research and development, finance and controlling are the first departments to migrate to the buyer's headquarters. Back then, production sites remain as extended workbenches. The workers who have worked hard for the success of these companies and have made many sacrifices are then dependent on the benefits of the capital market. Speculators who just want to make quick winnings are thus opened door and gate. We Socialists and Socialists therefore demand: The end of the friendly economy in ÖIAG, in which posts are awarded only more according to the criterion of surrender to the Federal Government or friendship with President Prinzhorn and Co. Rather, it is important to develop a labour-friendly, core shareholder philosophy based on Austrian industrial and economic policy, which is therefore future-oriented. The ÖIAG could play the important role of holding shares instead of a mere privatisation holding. We are concerned that Austrian industry and economic decision-making skills are not given abroad and that current misdevelopment is finally halted.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24478	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24526	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary! High house! I should like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff for having accepted the issue of tax collection and tax residues, especially because it was the social democratic budget speakers who have criticized the high deficits, and Social Democratic Finance Ministers have repeatedly promised to tackle this problem. However, the period considered 1995 to 1999 – in this period we had Social Democratic Finance Minister – shows a completely different picture. Thus, the delay in the levy has increased from 50 billion to 70 billion schilling, including the residue of the levy in execution from 24 billion to 34 billion schilling. Reliability of the levy has increased by 38 percent, by 40 percent, and by 70 percent due to temporary inconsistency. So that was the social democratic tax policy. In particular, it is alarming that around half of the total tax residue concerns VAT. It is therefore urgently necessary to implement the project of the Minister of Finance, in the inter-entrepreneurship chain, to pay the VAT not by means of payment flows, but by means of the method of settlement. Exploitation of the entry points shows different values. In this respect too, the proposed reform of financial management through the establishment of economic circles is a first step towards a better distribution of expenditure. Interesting is the following fact: The higher the residues, the lower the inflow rate, which in turn means that the big ones can judge, while the little ones have to "bleach". There are also differences in the legal form of the company: In the case of capital companies, the residues are only available at 11 percent, in the case of individual companies 22 percent and in the case of individual companies up to 30 percent. Quite grotesk is the fact that of the eight cases with a lower levy of over 100 million Schilling, only one company is classified as a large-scale company, the other as micro- and micro-enterprises. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Each non-paid tax schilling, each backward tax schilling burdens the budget, prevents the performance of the public tasks and also prevents the implementation of a corresponding tax reform and tax reduction. Sales tax reform, restructuring of financial management and other measures must be taken and implemented to reduce the tax residue and increase the yield rate. Together we will make it! This Federal Government with Federal Minister Grasser and State Secretary Finz is on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24568	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24590	Mr President! High house! Of course, I cannot necessarily share Mr Böhacker's optimism, especially when I look at staff policy. It will be really exciting how this has already been mentioned by a previous speaker, what the next audit report will bring about, what this overture has actually cost us and what it has brought. I am also interested in what the Court of Auditors will say to the ATW, if it is still allowed to examine it, whether we should not have kept this company, whether it would not have been more random. But Mr Grossruck, at the end of his speech, was ashamed of the fact that the Court of Auditors will no longer have many areas to examine, because it is distributed out. That too is something we criticize. I said that already today. Thus, control is not strengthened, not expanded, but pushed back in all areas; it is always tried to hide. A problem with this report is that it is already obsolete. There's already some exciting new stuff. The President of the Court of Auditors has said correctly today: We're supposed to learn from mistakes. That's what I'm calling myself. Mr President. However, we should always do something preventive if we detect dangers on the horizon. Perhaps this has happened too little in the past or there. As Mr Kogler, with the 17 billion schillings for the interception hunters, has his theme – I am going with him there by the way – I would like to point out to you for the time being a billion-dollar project that comes to the Republic. The project is under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture, which is the renovation of Austria's most dangerous old load, the fishermen's landfill. I have received the invitation to tender for this – it is repeated for the time being, because the awarding council has already sent it back a few times – and I read on the cover page that as an object of the call for tender, only the space of a former gravel pit filled mainly with household waste and mineral waste and the contaminated underground is mentioned. And this with the most dangerous old load of Austria! As with the Berger dump, I wonder if that means that only one pile of material again – 1.5 or 1.7 million tons! – which is so little contaminated that it can be destroyed. Then you'll only make it from one big pit to another. By the way, the same companies are always involved. And then the underground will be contaminated again. In the case of fishing landfills, it is not just 200 000 cubic metres that are being taken into account, but about one million tonnes are already being used as contaminated subsoil. This is also tested "class": A sample shall be drawn after 7 500 tonnes for the overall assessment. So that's what it's like – there's even a few chemists in the hall, I think – that after 375 truck vehicles a sample is drawn and watched if that's contaminated. It is therefore a matter of enormous amounts and sums. It is also interesting in this invitation to tender that a man who was already responsible for the destruction and excavation at the Berger-Deponie or the "Langen Feld" is now making this call on behalf of the federal or the operator, the BH Wiener Neustadt. Only construction companies are allowed to offer – highly interesting! – and not every construction firm, but only those who also own a landfill. That is to say, it is the same process as at the Berger dump, which has not yet been clarified for me. It will be the same with the fishing landfill, only because the Republic will then cost twice as much money. And that in the case of a dump, which in the form of the call for tender, is that it is actually not so dangerous. I really wonder what's going on, and ask the colleagues of freedom to turn to their former councillor Schimanek, who will be able to tell you a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24641	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24662	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! They all know that it is a very difficult undertaking to operate an airport company successfully. That is why I would like to focus briefly on the positive example of Salzburg Airport. The Court of Auditors' report states: Management is successful, profit-oriented, and the increase in the value for shareholders is part of the corporate philosophy. Today, people are talking about human capital everywhere. But what is this human capital that many companies, including Salzburg Airport, owe their success? – It is the many employees at all Hierarchy levels who have a personal concern for the well-being of the company and who are willing to make sacrifices for it. Especially these dedicated employees are particularly grateful at this point. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Nor does the Court of Auditors save with praise. For example, the active and planned discussion of airport management with the future orientation of the airport is explicitly recognised. Future-oriented and responsible corporate governance is of course. Of course, there have also been some criticisms, but this criticism is understood by the management of the company as an incentive and aid, and also that, this implementation, the Court of Auditors mentions in its report. All in all, this company is a good example of how others can measure themselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24704	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24725	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Prinz for his statement, because Mr Großruck has once again tried to make the airport Vienna, this building scandal, a red scandal, which is not at all true. In fact, the director close to the EIA has had problems there, and there has also been a law enforcement in order to put it right. But in Salzburg it is a social democratic director, one who is close to social democracy, who, as you have rightly said, is very successful. Just to put that right. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Mr Schwarzenberger and Mr Mag. Mainoni.]] [[Call to the liberals: Oh!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Very short to Vienna airport: We can all be glad that he's got the confusion after the 11th. September has survived very well if you look at this in an international comparison. The new Management Board, the new Executive Board and Supervisory Board are successfully operating there. Of course, it is also necessary to update what happened in the construction projects. That was a scandal, and this is certainly about 103 million schilling, 7.4 million €, as the Court of Auditors has correctly pointed out. However, I believe that the new leadership is on the best way to consolidate the international position of Vienna Airport, thus making a significant contribution to Austria's economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24783	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24804	Ladies and gentlemen! If you have looked at this report and read it carefully, then you really have the hair in the mountains. I don't have so many anymore, but my few are getting something up. Whether it is about the implementation of the Health and Social Aid Act or about the imposition of taxes, the whole report points to a common line. I quote just one sentence from the report: "During the period 1995-1999, while the number of posts at the financial offices increased by around 30 per cent, in the same period the amount of tax residues due increased by around 38 per cent..." I'm already holding it with the folk mouth, ladies and gentlemen, who says: The fish starts to smell at the head. If I think it right, I have to say, Minister of Finance Edlinger was a big fish in that pond. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Free and the ÖVP.]] But he was – and this remains to be seen – not a shark, but rather a carp. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: A very successful comparison!]] Very informative is also to be read in the report on the ÖIAG.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24839	Mr Scheuch! We have the agreement that we do not make animal comparisons to persons present here. I have to emphasize this very seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24860	A carp, however, is a very tasty fish if it was long enough in fresh waters. – But of course I accept it, Mr President. For ÖIAG, there was a lack of a comprehensive corporate philosophy in all sectors, as stated in the Court of Auditors report. This can be transferred directly to the opposition: You are now as planless as you have acted in the ÖIAG. There are other examples to be mentioned now, but one thing – and I say this to you very clearly – is quite clear: The largest scandal has really happened in the area of Flughafen Wien AG. There are incredible cases to be questioned whether this is in the tendering field, where the Court of Auditors criticises that calls for tenders have been made without underlying performance lists. The Management Board, ladies and gentlemen, does not even give an opinion here. Or: The Court of Auditors criticises an insufficient examination of the offers during the bids, as quoted in the Court of Auditors' report. The Management Board, ladies and gentlemen, does not give an opinion here either. As a result, of course, this results in a long list of shortcomings, and in which things can then be found such as awarding at overly high prices and finally – and that is the most damaging at all – an unjustified fee of 1 million schilling. Overall, this results in a damage – and this is a damage that was calculated by the Court of Auditors – of 103 million schilling. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! This Court of Auditors report is a mirror that needs to be kept before you. I know that you cannot live well with the distortion he shows you, that you hate it, but in the end these are facts, and you bear the responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24900	The President of the Court of Auditors has spoken. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24921	Mr President. High house! I have heard with great satisfaction today, as was praised by all the Court of Auditors' political groups and, above all, the Court of Auditors for the reports submitted today. I believe that the follow-up to the 1999 activity report is a particularly good example of the quality and precision of the Court of Auditors' officials, and your statements on this report give a reasoned testimony that this quality is appreciated by all the political groups in the House. Therefore, allow me to present to you once again a concern of the staff of the Court of Auditors. High house! The Court of Auditors is known to be an institution of the National Council and therefore to be counted as a legislative body. It contains the fundamental difference between the Federal administrative departments and a great similarity to the judicial body, which is also an exception from the general administration. However, the judicial system has long taken into account the special requirements of judges and prosecutors in the field of service law. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in connection with the Court of Auditors. It is therefore a long-term concern of the Court of Auditors and its servants to establish a right of service comparable to the judicial service law, which takes account of the specific requirements and also has the trains of a modern service right. Already during the last legislative period, the Court of Auditors and staff representatives in the Court of Auditors jointly developed their own Court of Auditors' right of service – of course only in the draft for the time being. This right of service has the characteristics of modernity that we so urgently need in the administration. It is simple, transparent and performance-oriented. I can only remove a few examples of the quality and benefits of this right of service, for example the fact that the subcontracting or infidelity of the administration is being cleared up, that it provides for a single basic content, that the functional groups and salary levels are also reduced, and that the salary curve becomes flatter – this is due to a huge reduction in final salaries, so that the salary increases only in a ratio of 1:2 during the lifetime. This is just too phenomenal for a service right and also meets the requirements generally applied to the administration as a whole. At the end of the day, the bees are to be abolished, and there are only four years to go by. I can only show you at this point with these few key points of the draft of the Court of Auditors' Service Act. During the last legislative period, negotiations were already under way with the then government representatives, who were very much committed to a divisional solution, and there was no continuation of the negotiations only because the legislative period had expired. The Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors were assured that negotiations would continue during the current legislative period. I am absolutely clear that now another government is in office, but I believe that the fundamental issue and the quality of the draft Court of Auditors Service Act make it appear justified to come closer to this issue. As a Member of Parliament, I should therefore like to appeal to the National Council to support these wishes of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors welcomes the praise that is repeatedly expressed in the National Council, but they also expect to meet their wishes on the other hand. One should continue negotiations on this draft in the interest of the Court of Auditors, in the interest of an institution of the National Council, in the interests of your institution whose quality you appreciate, whatever you always express in your speech. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24969	I now give the floor to Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e24991	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors has looked at pension insurance or at the main association, how to deal with computerization, what the use of how one has done in the procurement process and so on. An excellent report, as always! Congratulations to President Fiedler and his team, for that was a more than dry matter with God. But the technical-commercial result is only one side of the medal. There's a lot more human being behind that, and there's a lot more political behind it. In the absence of speaking time, I only comment on one point. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly called for the social security institutions to vote on the computer, because it has been obvious that there is a multi-track drive and that this multi-trackness costs more money – money that we do not have. The social security funds' cash registers are empty, that in the meantime whistles the squats from the roofs. But what did the responsible president – that was well known to be Mr. Sallmutter – do? – I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: He didn't do anything! I also tell you why Sallmutter & Co did not do anything: because the contributions have been increased anyway, when the costs have exploded, and because the deficit has anyway been paid by the federal government. Dear ladies and gentlemen! That's just one reason that it's right and important that in the main association at last other people have the saying.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25033	The next speaker is Mrs Wachlander. I'll give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25054	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! As mentioned by Mr Böhacker, the follow-up to the 1999 activity report includes the levying. For this I can – although I have studied it very carefully; and thanks to the good formulation it is also easy to understand – state-of-the-art and not accounting court-adequately only note: Failures, weaknesses and incompetence! If it were not so sad in the face of the financial miscarriage that this government had to take over, it would be a paradox if the Court of Auditors were rightly established in terms of tax contributions, among other things – and I quote literally – that: "The higher the economic power of a federal country, the lower the expected yield of the tax residues." Ladies and gentlemen! This can only have been a completely missing financial policy; otherwise I cannot explain it. These include the organisation of procedures and the general resource allocation. For example, in 1999, 127,000 enforcement titles were uncompleted. I think that speaks a clear language. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The conclusion is: They have somehow suffocated: sparse, unqualified and not acting responsibly. In your decades-long philosophy in terms of government budget and debt policy, I do not wonder that the levying has not worked. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Especially with a Mr. Passer...!]] The fact that Mr and Mrs Österreicher are actually proud of her country, which is already waiting with a zero deficit in 2002, and look optimistically into the future is a fact. If you don't believe it, go out and talk to the people! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Trust in this federal government and its financial policy therefore also has the willingness, I must say, to increase the tax performance. Ladies and gentlemen, remember that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Something else – and I would have liked to say this to Mr Edlinger, Mr Ex-Finanzminister, in particular [[Abg. May. Kogler: Passer does not pay...!]] The attributes for a good policy as we do it are: younger, more beautiful and, above all, better – namely our Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser and, of course, our State Secretary Finz. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25115	The next speaker is Mr Staffaneller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25137	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a member of the Committee, I have of course considered the area of the Federal Ministry for Social Security and Generations – and there the audit report on the main association and pension insurance companies. In particular, the statements on the use of computer, which have already been mentioned several times today, and the procurement raise questions as to whether it has been similar in other areas of these organisations. Some things have already been confirmed. According to the Court of Auditors' report, the total administrative costs or computer costs on employee insurance pensions were significantly higher than in the case of workers' insurance, because the level of staffing was not adjusted to the degree of automation achieved, e.g. according to the motto: We continue to do so, the degree of automation doesn't matter, it pays all the customer, the worker or the employee, and if we don't get out with the money, we increase the contributions! Employees' insurance has been reduced by 5 percent since 1982, but workers' insurance is reduced by 13 percent. One wonders why this different course of action has come about. Here is an example from the main association: The main association acquired PCs against a monthly rent of 1 196 S, which is 43 056 S in three years. In the same year, 1998, the main association bought similar equipment by 25 200 S and a month later, in June, around 19 500 S. This example alone shows how economic activity has been carried out and how it has been necessary to implement such reforms. These reforms were necessary. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for showing the abuses.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25181	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25202	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear gentlemen on the government bank! The supplement to the Court of Auditors' activity report for the 1999 administrative year also deals, among other things, with the levying at the financial offices. Unfortunately, the fact that only 16.3 percent of the approximately € 2.8 billion of latents that are already in execution can be called intolerable. With regard to the size classes of the residues, there were eight establishments, each of which showed more than 100 million schillings of tax residues. Not quite understood is the fact that only one of these eight establishments was classified as large-scale, whereas five were classified as micro-enterprises and two as small-scale enterprises. As one who has been active in the banking sector for over 30 years, it is unexplainable to me that a micro-enterprise can accumulate tax debts of over 100 million schilling; I do not understand that at all. Moreover, the importability of this 1.5 billion schilling is estimated at 0.002 percent. Interesting are also the supply expectations divided by federal states. Here, Carinthia and Styria were at the forefront of 34 percent and 32,5 percent, Upper Austria at 14 percent and Vienna only at 11 percent. I'd say, a typical West-East incident. The long-term acceptance of high tax debts also led to distortions of competition. It disadvantaged those undertakings which properly complied with their tax obligations. I am convinced that our current Finance Minister and his State Secretary will set out those activities that are necessary to ensure that the companies fulfilling their tax obligations will not be subject to any competitive disadvantage in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25243	There is no further statement of words to this effect. That is why this debate is closed. We shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of this report on the Court of Auditors' activity in 1999. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign. – I notice: The report has been taken note of by a majority. 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' Perception Report (III-110 of the Supplements) on the award of contracts in the Federal Roads and the Federal Republic of Germany (second partial report) (958 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25282	We're coming to 12. Agenda item. The first speech was made by Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25306	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I have not really understood to this day why Minister Bartenstein has so vehemently put himself before the construction industry on our criticism in committee. It was also a bit symptomatic that he did not say anything to his officials who were very much under the criticism of the Court of Auditors. In particular, understanding of the currently heavily exploited construction industry and its legitimate desire that the State should fulfil its role as a client and that the economy in Austria should not be saved dead, we cannot, however, assume that the State and the countries of its control function are aware of the construction industry. As in the Committee, I say here: Officials have not grown to the inventiveness of the construction industry when it comes to taking out one or the other, or they do not want to grow this ingenuity – which could be the worse position of the officials. It may have been that Minister Bartenstein had the right to add these individual amounts as a bagatoll amount, because in the eyes of an industrialist millions may be bagatoll amounts. But a few million here and a few there, and above all, how they've been made: This is like a red thread – as if it were a method in Austria – through our Republic. This concerns, for example, the tricky procedures in the procurement procedures, so that many calls for tenders are collected, but very few offers come back. That looks really damned after pressure or agreement. It is also about the conscious error in the calculations in the offers that enable it to take back an offer afterwards, because even the provider has a second, more suitable offer in the race in another form. It is also a question of how clearly it has been shown that the Cubas, which are often covered by additional offers by up to 100 percent, have also been charged. It is also about the Cubas, which were ultimately too large and used too little to get a basket money. Finally – and that's the worst thing about it – it's always about the call failures; sometimes one has been tried to say: to conscious tender failures. Only after your criticism, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, to the officials have they recognized the shortcomings there. We wonder why they did not recognize this before. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Even if you did not say it in your conclusion, as I say today, you could read it out of your words: The processes of the construction industry in Austria have method, and those responsible do not want to recognize these methods. Maybe they can't recognize them either.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25355	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25376	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I should like to draw my attention to the Court of Auditors' report on the award of orders in the Federal Republic of Germany. These are examinations of construction projects in Carinthia on the one hand, Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland on the other, as well as various construction projects in the area of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. The Court of Auditors has identified in the various construction projects, both in the planning and in the tendering process, and finally in the implementation of various changes to the contract, shortcomings which were on the one hand in the formal field, i.e. where they did not have a financial impact. On the other hand, some potential savings have also been identified, between a few hundred thousand schillings and about 40 million schillings in the individual projects. For the sake of fairness, it is necessary to say that, as regards the large area for which a saving potential of almost 40 million schillings has been confirmed by the Court of Auditors, legal differences have existed, which have subsequently been decided by a court ruling in accordance with the Court of Auditors' opinion, but which, however, made possible a different legal opinion for the companies concerned in advance, including legal opinions. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, it is important how the Court of Auditors' audit, which has certainly been very important in this area, has responded. Here, it can be said positively that many of the recoveries recommended by the Court of Auditors have actually been successfully carried out by relevant construction companies and civil engineers. Above all, what this Federal Government has done in the meantime, namely the establishment of its own management company of the Federal Government for the management of the federal real estates, will in future avoid different handling in areas of various former federal building administrations and allow for a uniform high level of quality for the management of the entire federal real estates. I think that is also the positive aspect of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25416	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25438	Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that in this Court of Auditors report on the allocations in the country of Carinthia the great scandal would be hidden, but it is probably a common collection of the always the same errors and shortcomings that have occurred in this area and which I have known since I read Court of Auditors reports on these issues. First of all, there are the shortcomings in the invitation to tender. This includes, for example, that the foundations are not introduced. The ramps are planned with granite beams, which are then placed in such a way that those who cross the ramp no longer come through or come up. These are clear alerts, there is no target. There are also the unfortunately usual errors, which are that between the quantities in the tender and the billing, errors arise to the extent of tens of potentials. There is one million after the other, which is very nice to collide into a rather attractive sum. Ladies and gentlemen! It is once again the same lack as is observed in these reports each time: The public hand is not sufficiently capable to write out in such a way that the optimum in the field of construction industry can be obtained, that it is optimally planned and that the corresponding companies will also work optimally. The cut is still a golden one if so much can be tricked! Ladies and gentlemen! In this Court of Auditors report, the evidence has been given that in the country of small men everything is not as golden as it is publicly claimed.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25480	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25501	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors examined the years 1994 to 1999 – 40 percent of total allocations – and found that in many cases sluggishness, carelessness, inefficiency and waste and that hundreds of millions of sour tax money were wasted in these years. This has been impressively documented by the Court's samples. Infringements have been detected against procurement regulations, lack of transparency, lack of performance lists, invoicing errors et cetera. In terms of construction projects alone, a savings potential of 64 million Schilling was identified in these samples – money that would be available for other important projects in the correct and careful manner. Only 10 percent of these amounts have been submitted or made available. Although the current minister of the department only comes to these accusations as the virgin comes to the child, because she was not competent at the time, one thing is quite certain: that she will put off these sluttings and mistakes in her place of residence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25535	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25556	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! And to stick to the division of Mrs. Collaborative Weekly Countries: Dearer, younger and better State Secretary Finz! Yes, hemorrhage! [[Cheerfulness and condolences of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Bleedjung!]] I just repeated. [[Call: These are sexistic terms! I reject these]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Of course, thanks to the Social Democrats, you and your officials are also certain, whereby we have understood very well your request to finally fulfill the desire for a new salary scheme. We support you, but we still lack the necessary majority. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I also admire the frustration of the ladies and gentlemen in the Court of Auditors: If we make the revision happen today, we can see that we have problems in the right to award. This was the case with "Euroteam", and the Austrian family institute is nothing more written out at all, but directly awarded, and this is now continuing, according to this report, in Germany's high-rise construction and federal road construction. Here, there are huge potentials of savings, one would add this to the entire federal territory and to all public allocations: 170 million in these two years alone, which were examined and proposed by the Court of Auditors. I would now like to do just a small memory exercise for the colleagues of the ÖVP: Who was responsible for these awards from 1994 to 1996? – The memory is gone again! – It was well under the responsibility of ÖVP ministers! I am only saying this because today it has always been said that the socialists are guilty of all these things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at this style of forgiveness more closely, you have to say: It is really the frustration level of officials in the Court of Auditors. Time and again we read the same thing: There are violations of the right to award. bidder agreements are thought to be the talk of lack of service directories and so on. I think that we should all, if we finally want to help the Austrian right to award, put ourselves together to take account of the efforts of the Court of Auditors and to achieve a very decisive potential for savings! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25619	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25649	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! We are now dealing with the Court of Auditors' report on procurement. In my contribution, I would like to deal with the construction of the Federal Roads, namely the award of the Kärntner Landesgebung and Alpenstraßen AG. The examination period covers the years 1994 to 1996, and it is remarkable that the occasion for the examination was the discussion on the presumption of illegal price agreements in various construction projects. As we know, judicial action has also been taken against construction companies. Finally, the Court of Auditors carried out this examination at the request of the then Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Farnleitner. The Court of Auditors examined in particular the proper execution of contracts in compliance with the applicable legislation. With regard to the defect analysis, I would like to briefly point out three sub-areas. Firstly, there were shortcomings in the procurement process – of which we have already heard today – in the planning and performance descriptions, in the construction process and in the settlement. Finally, due to the shortcomings identified, the Court of Auditors has calculated a saving potential of around 6 million schillings. The conclusions of the Court of Auditors' report point out that around 300 billion schillings per year are granted to public authorities and, although only a few projects are not properly advertised, significant financial disadvantages are already being incurred for the client and, on the other hand, in the final consequence for taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the Court’s officials, on the one hand, for their audit work, on the other, but also for the suggestions and recommendations made to the contracting authorities, because a proper tendering and awarding procedure is the prerequisite for free and fair competition!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25691	The next item is the speech by Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25712	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about construction projects in road construction and federal building in the various federal states. These are therefore their responsibility as well as the responsibility of the then Minister of Economic Affairs Schüssel and the State Secretary Ditz. The period from 1994 to 1996 was to be checked, and this is a total award of 8.9 billion schilling. What was the point of the Court of Auditors' audit report? – On the one hand, it was about proper procurement and, on the other, compliance with applicable legislation. Ladies and gentlemen! The list of shortcomings, irregularities and errors is long, and all of this costs money, namely taxpayers who have not been used and used with care and care. If these would be eliminated, billing and award failure would result in a savings potential of 70 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has proposed a wide range of measures in the sense of greater care and fair competition. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! This sometimes seems to be a fight against windmills! It remains to be hoped that the Court's proposals will be taken up and implemented in the future, because only in this way will it be possible to eliminate abuses, reduce costs and create fair conditions for the construction industry, which seems to me to be very important. Ladies and gentlemen! I come to the conclusion: When it comes to the issues of seriality and transparency in connection with upcoming and future road constructions, it should be noted that the present general transport plan does not have a priority or coordination, nor does it include a financing plan. Thus, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, there is still a lot of work for you and your employees before you. I hope your recommendations and your clarifications will not go unheard of!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25749	As there are no further statements of speech on this matter, I will close the debate on this item on the agenda. We shall vote on the Committee's request to take note of this III-110 Perception Report of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of this sign. . I note that the decision on the adoption of this report has been taken by majority vote. 13. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 386/A by Mr Manfred Lackner, Members of Parliament on a Federal Act amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (940 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25791	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. I give the floor to Mr Lackner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25820	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Within the framework of the 2001 budget, the taxation of pension payments has been re-regulated. In the course of this tax and tax increase programme of the Federal Government, without knowing the more detailed provisions, the Vorarlberger Grenzganger were scrapped and fully accessed the pension payments of this group. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the situation of frontier workers, I have allowed myself to table today's motion for a resolution with which this measure is to be reversed by the government. – I can remember what it is about: The Swiss pension system is based on three pillars. Legally binding and precisely regulated are both the first pillar, AHV-pension, as well as the second pillar, BVG-pension, according to the underlying law. It is therefore only about the removal of the claims from this second pillar. As a rule, they cannot be claimed as a current pension payment by frontier workers. The problem lies here, and we have therefore also tabled this motion for a resolution. It is not particularly surprising that this group of persons, who were fully asked to pay the checkout, was in the country. Then followed a media exchange in which the government pursued tactics to keep the affected group of persons – the Vorarlberg border workers – at the heart of the action by playing. It is not surprising that the first activism took place in January last year, because in Vorarlberg, in Feldkirch and Bludenz, constituencies at municipal elections were in place. And it was not particularly surprising that the frontier workers had at that time the first appointment with the Minister of Finance, who then made very public promises in the room via print media and on television, or comforted the frontier workers. So they returned to Vorarlberg. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to save you the following mention: After that, there was a media exchange, which now fills three volumes. And it's really amazing how this group continued to be comforted. After that date the Minister of Finance took place – which is little wonder, because the elections in Bludenz and Feldkirch were beaten – until April nothing at all. Only after a demonstration in front of the farmhouse in Bregenz did some movement come into this matter again. The group of persons of the Vorarlberger Grenzganger was asked to become the head of state or to the state governor, where they were again signaled that an improvement would soon occur in their case. Hardly was this great demonstration and the aftershock over, happened – little surprising – nothing again. In October last year, the "Vorarlberg News" was announced that a solution to this problem would now finally stand in the house. At the beginning of December, the representatives of the Vorarlberg border workers were asked to become the head of state and state, where the proposal was made in concrete terms that the solution might look as follows: These pension payments reduce the tax base by one third, and then the tax is fully taxed. In addition, they were also given the prospect that this solution would go over stage in the old year and the decision-making would be retroactive with 1. ==References====External links== We are negotiating my request here today, and there is again no request from the government parties to solve this miserable problem. I know that my request will be remedied again today. Mr Feurstein! I can only tell you: We will communicate in an appropriate way to the group of persons concerned that a request by the government parties, as envisaged, has not been negotiated today. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25869	The next speaker was Mr Feurstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25890	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Manfred Lackner does not at all know what request he has made: He did not put forward a motion for a resolution but a very concrete proposal for an initiative. And there is a huge difference between proposals for initiative and motions for a resolution. I am now telling you why we reject this request: First point: They only favour foreign pension payments. There are also pension reductions in Austria on a legal basis, on the basis of statistical basis. They reject this and only favour those who have worked abroad. However, those who work in Austria are at a disadvantage. We cannot accept that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second point: If you receive a statutory pension from abroad or from a domestic institution, you will be fully taxed. If you receive a pension from abroad, only half of you will be taxed. That too we reject! – Those who have a normal pension should pay no more and no less tax than those who can find a pension. Mr. Manfred Lacner! You're a driver of your party friend Loacker. I'm sorry! I would ask you to develop your own initiatives!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25935	The next speaker is Mr Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25965	Mr President. Mr Feurstein, you have already been an initiative. I accept a newspaper article from the "UN" that you welcomed at an annual general meeting of the VGV exactly that which you are fighting now. – That’s how you can’t steal from this! But the reason for my speech is quite another: This request has suffered a terrible fate. It should be misused by you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, in order to make a special amendment concerning the adjustment of pensions. We could stop that. That is why this request is only now and late on the agenda. – This should not remain unmentioned for the protocol. Mr. Feurstein! If you already call for initiatives, at least keep at least those you have welcomed in the first place!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e25998	Mr Feurstein spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind him of the provision of the Rules of Procedure that the actual correction must not take more than 2 minutes and that it must be based on the replay of the facts to be corrected and the addition of the actual facts. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26026	Firstly, Mr Kogler claimed that I would have participated in a general meeting of the Association of Borderers. – That’s wrong! I didn't take part in any meeting of the border workers. [[Calls.]] Second point: I would have made them promises in this form, as they are now in this proposal. – That too is wrong! Read the newspapers in Vorarlberg, then you will find that the border workers unfortunately disagreed with my suggestions!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26070	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26091	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First: We liberals will reject this request because it contradicts the principles of equality of taxation. Mr Feurstein has already explained this in detail. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, The proposal that a third of the pension reduction should remain tax-free would have long been decided that by the Social Democrats in Vorarlberg you would not in any way stop the frontier workers from accepting this proposal again and again! I can assure you: We will find a solution that corresponds to the uniformity of taxation and will also bring corresponding benefits to the frontier workers in Vorarlberg!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26131	Does anyone else want the word? - That's not the case. This concludes the debate and comes to the vote on the Committee's request to take note of its report 940 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign. – I notice: This request was accepted by a majority vote. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2002-01-30-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00091_d7e26164	I am still announcing that in today's session, requests for self-employed applications 589/A (E) to 597/A (E) have been received and requests for 3324/J to 3344/J have been submitted. The agenda is exhausted. I call the next meeting of the National Council for tomorrow, Thursday, 9 a.m. The draft agenda has been distributed in writing. This meeting begins at Question Time. Today's sitting is closed.
