ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u1	Dear people's deputies, please. Dear colleagues, I beg you to sit down, hard, but we will continue our work. I'm asking the people's deputies to sit down, let's see how many members of the Supreme Council are willing to work. Let's do a check-in. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:37:42]] There are 357 people's deputies in the hall. Parliament can make very responsible decisions. We continue our work. Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we must continue to work today until we consider all the issues. In addition to the two most important laws passed by the Cabinet of Ministers on economic growth and the prevention of a financial disaster, we have, at the suggestion of the people's deputies as well as the deputies and the citizens who took care of the Supreme Council in the morning, a very important issue to consider. It is also a draft of the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code, on the abolition of the environmental tax on disposal, and it is also a matter related to the security of our State, the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Guarantee of Callers at the time of mobilization, the draft Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judicial System, on which many national deputies insisted. And in the second reading of the question that we have also promised the public organizations and society to accept, it is 0947 (the poster, you see, a nice person hanged) – a bill amending some of the legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Information Act. Dear colleagues, before we start making the responsible decisions that we are yet to discuss with you, I have been approached by two faction leaders, Mr. Ephraim and Simonenko – the Party of Regions and Communists. They're asking for a recess, but I understand it's a technical break to announce the application. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters and journalists! The faction of the Party of the Regions left this morning for the following reasons. First. The vote in the session room under such an important law that we are considering today, when it comes to everyone, we strongly believe, must take place in person. We have recorded a large number of votes for other keys. I will now hand over to you, Alexander Valentinović, the corresponding record which is and we would like to place, as required by our law and the Rules, for a vote. Second. In the Hall, insults and threats to members of the factions of the Party of the Regions, the factions of the Communist Party, continue to sound. As Chairman, you are obliged, under the Rules, to stop these statements. You did not do so today, and on the contrary, I believe that it would be logical for you to apologize for insulting the factions of the Party of the Regions. Next. We have repeatedly said that documents are introduced in the Hall, which members sometimes do not see in their eyes. We have repeatedly called your attention to what this cannot be done when a bill has been voted on, which the MP has not held in hand. You can do it once, you can do it two times in exceptional cases, but when it goes into the system, it's already becoming too much. And the last. To date, you're creating a system where even our Council TV doesn't interview the Party of the Regions directly, it gives the MPs 30 seconds in the recording. If you do not stop working in this direction, I can say with full confidence that you will lead Ukraine to an even greater catastrophe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u3	Thanks for the show. Honorable National MPs. Thank you. I'll take that. I'll see. Thank you. Now. I want to listen to your supervisor, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Guys, let's calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. We need to make too many responsible decisions. That's why I apologize to all the people's deputies in the event that I've commented too harshly on the political positions that were taking place in the hall. But I'm talking to my colleagues from the Party of Regions, my friends, my esteemed colleagues, well, my heart really hurts, because this 280 billion budget break, well, that's your legacy and you're responsible for that, my friends. You answer to the citizens of Ukraine. And the fact that you're ignoring these decisions, even leaving the hall, well, I really want to comment. This is your responsibility. Well, it's a responsibility that's not going to go away, guys, it's not going anywhere. So I ask the distinguished national deputies of all factions to understand what we are talking about today and what decisions we are making. Without these decisions, Ukraine will not be able to stabilize the economy. Ukraine will not be able to pay wages and pensions. Because those who have been in charge for the past four years have led to complete bankruptcy. And you have to take responsibility for these things. So once again, I apologize for my harsh remarks. I beg you, let's work, let's make a decision. Dear colleagues, we have listened to the Prime Minister's report. He introduced practically two laws. We can listen now, colleagues. We vote, don't worry. We do. I'm asking you, colleagues, to listen now. How much, Alexander Vitaliyovich, do you need? In 10 minutes, I understand? Five minutes. A report by the Minister of Finance on changes in the Code budget, the Budget Act. And we will be able to listen to two of the committee's profile managers and discuss this issue and make decisions. Before making decisions, we will surely vote and vote to calm everyone down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Prime Minister and we went to the meetings of all factions. We attended a meeting of the Committee on Budgets. And we want to thank all the national deputies who helped to find additional incomes, who helped to eliminate unnecessary expenses. There have been very hot discussions, unfortunately most of them will have to move a little bit later, because we haven't been able to come up with any perfect proposals that don't break our balance. At the same time, we consider several proposals that apply to both the Budget Act and the Tax and Congregations Act to be acceptable, and I would like to make them. Regarding tax initiatives. There are four suggestions that we would like to take into account, we consider possible. First. The biggest discussion was about tax exemptions, taxes on the added value of transactions in the export of grains of technology. I want to emphasize once again, we've taken this step out of a good life, it's really an extremely difficult norm for our agrarians. We've agreed with most agrarian representatives that we'll go back to discussing how the agricultural sector should be taxed next year, but this year we ask the agrarians to understand the situation and share our little cushion of revenue with the State Budget. And that's why they listened to their arguments and left the effect of such an exemption not until 01.01.2016, but only until 01.01.2015, realizing that from next year we would move on to a more civilized system of taxation of this kind of business. The other one. As far as VAT is concerned, medical devices are involved. After serious discussions, we suggest that 7 percent be taxed, not on first supply, but on all supply transactions throughout the chain to avoid possible abuses. Third. As far as water taxation is concerned – 263.1.5, 263.1.6. We actually noticed that if we wanted to tax those who are using large amounts of water in private homes today to fill the pools, to water the lawns and so on, we could touch the farmers. And so there's a proposal to complement with the words, "except for business entities, which, according to the legislation, refer to farming." And finally the last. No, I'm sorry, two more suggestions. A major discussion was raised by the proposal to tax the passive income of natural persons from the following year. We decided to listen and slightly reduce the top stake by 30 percent, leaving only three bets: the base rate is 15, after 500 thousand, 20, after a million, 25. And finally, the final offer we're going to take into account is the taxation of diesel fuel. Leave two bets instead of one: one for Euro-2-3 128 euros, the other for Euro-4-5 at 98 euros. This is article 215. 3.4. With regard to the Budget Act, the three technical remedies that came to us, and we consider it possible to count without losing balance. The first is due to a technical malfunction. The budget, which forms the additions to the law, is confusing the naming of income codes. So we would ask by code: 22010000 to save "pay for administrative services", 22030000 is "court assembly". Technically, we've changed the program's name to an unfair code of 3111020. We suggest we leave it unchanged. And finally, the final offer, it's important, and we've heard it. We suggested that before the economic situation stabilized, one of the rules of a large number of laws on public service, judiciary, and so on. This rule applies to the retirement of prosecutors, national deputies, civil servants, diplomats, and so forth. When they retire, they get 10 salaries, so let's say, especially for judges, it's about 400,000. And we decided that it would be the right thing to do if this rule wasn't just stopped, but deleted, cancelled from this bill. These are all the notes we would like to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Alexander Vitaliyovich, sit down. Now, let's listen to the heads of the Economics Committees and the Committee on Budgets, then the factions of factions and parliamentary groups, and we'll go to decision-making. No objections? I won't. Yes, it is. Please, I'm asking you to come to Eugene Geller's rostrum on the budget changes, the Committee on Budgets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u6	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budgetary Questions today considered a draft of the Law (No. 4591) amending the Budget Code submitted by the Government. Taking into account the demands of time and the urgency of resolving the relationship between the State budget and the budget. I'm sorry. That's not the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u7	Eugene Borisovich, I ask you to take this important issue more seriously. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u8	In fact, Bill No. 4591 was also a very important bill, which was emphasized by both Minfin and agreed with the committee. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill on the State budget is based on the need to make the proposed changes. The Committee on Budget Questions quickly met and considered the bill in connection with urgency. It should be noted that in the bill most of the regulations and budgetary indicators have been thoroughly revised, which requires an in-depth study of the relevant calculations and explanations. Special attention should be paid to the social dimension of such changes, based on timeliness, justice, and soundness of mind. I would like to point out that, during the discussion of the bill on the committee, the National Deputies of the various factions, I stress, all the factions that are under the dome, as well as the chief budget administrators, have made meaningful remarks to the bill, particularly regarding the approaches that have been taken to reduce the individual expenditure of the state budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council made a note of such a bill, particularly the GNEU noted that the proposed changes contained some social risks. Because their introduction will primarily affect low-income and socially vulnerable populations. The committee therefore adopted this decision: recommending to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading of the bill on number 4575 to be adopted on the basis of a shorter period of time for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u9	Thank you. Please, Andrew Ivanovich Ivanchuk, Committee of Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u10	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished national MPs! The Economic Policy Committee received Bill 4576, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a bill to prevent a financial disaster and to create preconditions for economic growth in Ukraine. The Economic Policy Committee considered the proposed legislative initiatives for various legislative acts in Ukraine aimed at preventing a financial catastrophe. We have a unanimous decision on the committee: to support the bill with some observations, namely: in section I of the bill in paragraph 15 of the amendment to paragraph 25.3.4 of paragraph 38.24, delete; sub-paragraph 263. 1.4 leave the current Code of Taxation in force and sub-paragraph 263. 9.2. Paragraph 263 should be left in the correct version of the current Tax Code. As a result of the debate, the Economic Policy Committee is proposing to you, Mr. Golovo, and the House will adopt the bill 4576 in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. The decision was made, I repeat, unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's stay away from the factions. Three minutes each faction will be given for the performance. Please sign up, please, and also from MPs. Please, Faction Hit, Smokey. Vitaly Klitschko, please speak from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We understand the great responsibility that lies upon us after that and the situation of the government of Yanukovich throughout the country. And today it's in a direct sense in a coma. We realize that the government today is forced to ask unpopular questions. But most of all, these decisions will solve problems and in no way create new ones. We today, our factions, met with the Prime Minister, had a serious discussion about the proposed anti-crisis package and prepared proposals to improve the package, and we must remove some very questionable positions. These positions apply to the protection of the poorest. To get to a more balanced anti-crisis law, our faction has made several changes and amendments to this law. We suggest we put them in a bag. First. We demand that the remaining specialties be eliminated for the authorities and the authorities. The other one. Cancel the strange standards that are designed to tax a child’s child. Third. Simplify the tax procedure. Four. Unite ministries and offices that have a close object of regulation and eliminate the corrupt authorities created by the former authority to break up the budget. We understand a very difficult situation in which the country's economy is located. But once again, our goal today is to save the country, not to create new problems that we will then have to solve. All suggestions are made in writing, and I offer to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u13	Thank you, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Please, Peter Simonenko will be speaking from the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u14	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to emphasize once again that, as a result of the coup, others came instead of some oligarchs, while the problems for the people of Ukraine remain the same. There is a sharp reduction in the over-expenditure of the articles and, above all, because this is a requirement of the International Monetary Fund. I am talking to you Ukrainians about plans to reduce social, first and foremost costs. Subsidies to local budgets for child assistance will be reduced by 6.3 billion grevens. And notice, for almost a third child, the birth of a child decreases by 80,000 the payment and assistance of mothers. An article on the allocation of 2.6 billion grevens to the welfare of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster will disappear from the budget. Annual assistance to war veterans and victims of Nazi persecution will be abolished. We are preparing for the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. 4 billion grevens are saved from the deficit of the Pension Fund. Subsidies for local budgets of 2.9 billion will be completely abolished, for the difference in tariffs on heat and water, which is necessarily an additional cost for our citizens. The price of energy is also increasing, as coal miners will receive fewer than 2.4 billion mines for refurbishment. At 1.1 billion they cut subsidies to mines. I would also like to draw attention to the elimination of benefits for the free use of housing and payment for teachers of workers and pharmacists, as well as for cultural workers working in rural areas. Next. Practically, the subsistence minimum is returning to the level of January this year, which means that State assistance to families and children. Next. Low-income families. Social assistance to disabled persons from childhood will not continue to be paid. Next. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that decisions have been virtually eliminated that an increase in the minimum wage has been planned since 1 July and 1 October. I also draw your attention to the fact that we have virtually reduced our funding in Ukraine today for the same programmes for children suffering from tuberculosis by almost a third. 600 million planned, 280 million reduced funding for the treatment of children who suffer from so-called tuberculosis. At the same time, free food was virtually abolished for children in school. But you know what they say about one thing, and they do what the oligarchs always do. They are doing everything to ensure that this is done only by those citizens who today constitute the very population of Ukraine in need of support. We Communists propose to implement our anti-crisis programme, which clearly states where to take money and how to complete the public execution. Under the current regime, it will never be done because it is a regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u15	Party of regions, national MP Voropeyev, please. Please give me your word. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u16	Good day, fellow believers, distinguished representatives of the public, the media! I would also like to point out that these bills really matter to our country's economy. Unfortunately, the title of the bill does not fit the point. The new government is proposing to destroy our economy, destroy that economic base, the rest of that base that we have. It is observed that the bill will primarily affect conscientious taxpayers, including the proposal to raise taxes on the income of natural persons. Those taxpayers, employers who made the payments in question, will not be able to do so. We're going to increase the shadow of the economy. Secondly, these legislative initiatives are proposed by representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. They offer to cancel all passive income rates, including interest on deposits, on deposits. This means that in all Ukrainian citizens, whether in foreign currency or in national currency, they will already pay a 15 percent personal income tax when we offer 5 percent and 1 January 2015. Here's your improvement, here's your fight against the financial crisis. Secondly, it is proposed to cancel more VAT rates that have been proposed since 2015. There's not going to be 17 percent of the value added tax, there's going to be 20 percent. There will be no shorter, more reduced income tax rates, 18 percent instead of 16 percent since 2015. What we're talking about is that this bill proposes to increase all payments, taxes, namely, nadra charges, environmental taxes, the first registration of a transport vehicle. It is proposed to increase the tax base on immovable property. from the land area. I propose to introduce, expand the list of pensioners, including the specified payers, will be all the citizens and individuals who are supplying foreign currency in Ukraine. In particular, this will lead to a higher exchange rate. In particular, it is suggested that the benefits for military personnel be abolished. In particular, it is proposed to exclude even the rule of conformity, to which the legal acts of state authorities and local self-government, which, by cancelling, limit the benefits and rights of military personnel and their members. are worthless, are not real. These standards are also proposed to be excluded. The authorities are now talking about the problem of VAT compensation. Now I'm talking business about not having any problems. You just won't pay any VAT as compensation. They're going to issue bonds for domestic government loans. Papers that are worthless. We were criticized for introducing financial bills. But the financial bills may have been obtained only by the taxpayer’s consent. You have no right here in the unappealable order to receive funds. You're going to get internal government loan bonds over the course of five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u17	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u18	The opponent said that the state was in a coma. I can say with full responsibility that by adopting these legislative initiatives with the slogans "Glory to Ukraine!" They're just burying the state. The economy, and the state with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u19	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u20	Not the respectable regionals and the communists, and you haven't forgotten who took that budget, where you made the hole -- 280 billion dollars. Is your tongue coming back now? With a total budget of 480 billion, we can think of a budget of 280 billion dollars of budget deficits. And after that, will you teach your life? Mr. Ephraim! Where's he at, by the way? Let him tell you how his son washed $2.4 billion in coal mines. Now you're asking me to put extra emphasis on this? Let each of you tell me how you turned banks into washbasins. It's to think, 12 banking institutions turn into washbasins that cost 242 billion dollars. Who will be responsible? I think the moment of truth has come. This vote will show who is responsible for taxing more than 300,000 dollars. Do you care about that? It's okay. Pay extra. This vote will show whether the so - called capital expenditure will continue to be 3.5 billion dollars that were thrown at each district and then fought against mosquitoes. And to think, we had MPs who were using funds for their districts to fight mosquitoes, when people didn't have basic wages. That is why other articles are based on our faction. These are articles that fill the budget. Our offer to the government. There are six proposals from Alexander Kugel that add up to 1 billion dollars to the budget. A request to take them into account. There are four proposals by Teryochin that add about 1.5 billion dollars to the budget. Asking them to take them into account in the same way. It's not going to affect low-security populations, but it's going to make it possible to tax vodka with extra excise duty, and it's not going to be a big deal. This will allow you to actually fill the budget and not allow it to go into the shadows. And the last. We have one chance today. We have to vote on these changes today and let the country start very slowly, slowly, but still take turns. Another chance is where the Party of Regions and Communists have been taking us for four years. So we're going to vote for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, from the Sovereign European Ukraine, Olesia Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u22	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This will be a difficult decision for each of us and a difficult decision for the entire Supreme Council. The Group "Sovereign European Ukraine" is part of a pervasive coalition, and it certainly deals with understanding of all initiatives, including budget changes, although we understand the risks that it poses, the first risk to this government, which has taken into account many things that are unpopular and sometimes dangerous to itself. These are things that have been delayed, that may not now be accepted by much of our population. At the same time, we had a rather difficult conversation with a parliamentary group and serious claims of both political and economic character. First of all, the claim of a political nature that we have not been offered a system of economic reform. We've been offered fiscal changes, which is an extra burden, in this difficult time very often called for, but it's a real reform system. I hope that this government will offer further, including using intellectual potential. One such proposal was to eliminate unnecessary structures, such as the Tax Police, the State Departments for Combating Economic Crimes and the ISS unit, which are actually making more trouble for business right now, and we see that the BSI, instead of dealing directly with its activities in Crimea, is only actually engaged in the Ukraine, in fact, with a racket. And we found support from the government. Arsenius Yatsenuk said that a proposal is being made for the organisation of the financial police based on these structures, i.e. the actual reduction. And the next. Some things of an economic nature, unfortunately, are also unacceptable. We have not yet found support for their removal. For example, it is suggested that the rate be doubled on radio frequencies. So to understand this is six structures at this point, if you double it for everyone, it's going to be an increase in monopolization. Because 90 percent of this market is MTS and Kievstar. If you increase it for everyone at the same time, then they'll take the money from the subscribers, that is, from the citizens. And it's just a once-in-a-lifetime saturation of the budget. So this is a progressive rate: for smaller operators, a lower rate, for larger ones, a higher rate. But unfortunately, we haven't found support yet. I hope this is going to change. On social issues. Unfortunately, we haven't found support for the elimination now or, more faithfully, the reduction, the radical reduction in birth pay for the second and third children. It's unacceptable. We have this situation, we have a greater birth rate than we have in just a few areas: Volinska, Ravenska, Zakarpatska, Kyiv and now Ivano-Frankivska. We need to think not only of tactical issues but of strategic ones. Now we need to increase the birth rate, because these are the children who are going to grow up and support the pensioners. Unfortunately, there's no support here yet. We hope that in the future we will have good cooperation with the government and will listen to our suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u23	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u24	And in this situation, the Group of Sovereign European Ukraine has decided to support these very difficult changes to the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u25	Thank you. "Economic development," who's going to be speaking? I have Mr. Kulinich on record. The word is given to the national MP, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u26	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Arsenius Petrovich! Of course, the country’s financial situation is very difficult. And this situation has accumulated over the years. And from year to year, from one election to other elections, they constantly opened up the part of the budget. And the simplest way to find revenue was to adjust macroindicators to the right costs and to push business. So, of course, we, the Economic Development Group, will support your desire to make certain, even unpopular decisions. But there are a few things we need to pay attention to. The first is how you do it. They made the only anti-crisis law that included everything they could. We support the budget sequencer. And even in some positions, perhaps we should have gone further. But as for taxes and tax base changes in this way, I personally, as the head of the profiling committee, am definitely not supported. 90 percent of tax standards are in the antichrist bill, which is considered by another committee in general, which has never considered tax standards in my memory. We weren't even co-heads in the process. So in these positions where we've looked at tax standards, we have some questions. And we would recommend removing the tax box of these bills and going through the proper procedure, even a very short procedure, we're ready for that. We have to give an answer frankly, which is what happens after we raise the income tax on citizens from 15 to 30 percent. On the one hand, it's definitely a phrase that's only for the rich, but let's look at the other side. Social funds today are 37 percent plus 15-30, so the load is going to be between 50 percent and 70 percent, and they're going to go even further in the shade. The same applies to dividend taxation. These same standards are distributed on dividends. To date, the bank’s head of the National Bank has made up 578 billion dollars. And that's only in two months. That's 15 percent of all deposits. Let's take a balanced look at this decision. Maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u28	Let's at least have a discussion. We also have a note about the change in the rules of taxation of the village, today this is the first, let's say, "locomotive" after exporting the product that even the metallurgy has preceded. And we also have to be honest to say that next year we're canceling VAT cuts and corporate income tax cuts, and we have to talk about that, and we don't have to make any assumptions about that. That's why my proposal remains so personal that we vote on the first Budget and Sequester Act in general, it's definitely 28 billion plus. And by taxes, we were given time to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u29	Dear colleagues. I am the only one who asks those who speak to me to listen carefully to what officials say. In particular, in terms of income taxation, they have reduced the number of additional rates to two, that is, 30 percent in general, Mr. Homutinnik, there is no wager. And 25 percent only for income of over 1 million dollars, as I understood the Minister of Finance's speech. Well, he was speaking and he was just commenting on this question, let's listen to each other carefully. Dear colleagues, who's speaking now from Liberty? Oleg Pullibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u30	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, not enough in the State Treasury 289 billion, please consider. So how did you steal to make that amount a deficit? I want to tell you where the billions are. People are good, Ukrainians, so they're flooded into the gold alloys that they find periodically in the vaults of the regionals, these gold bars and other treasures that they stole from you, they're hiding, and now they're allowed to tell us how we should get the state out of the economic crisis that they've brought it into. The U.S. Freedom Union, after studying the materials and documents of these bills, proposes the following regarding the budget. First of all, you cannot, in no case, shorten an article by the Ministry of Defence. So how does that come to mind? We are now fighting a real war, we are before the wars, and we have the Ministry of Defense minus 500 million, and what articles are being cut short, ensuring the activities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, preparing troops. Five bucks apiece, and here we want to shorten the troops, the border sections -- no way. Do you want to reduce the funding of the General Intelligence Directorate by 16 million? Strike out and not even think about what the Mini-Defense might be. The other one. We proposed during our meeting, and I hope they will listen, essentially shorten the DUS, the State Administration and the President's Administration, but there is no President yet. And I think since these structures are coming down now, we don't need this huge amount of money planned here in the budget. Next. We believe and support that we need to increase the excise on alcohol and tobacco, and we will definitely support this position. What the government is offering is not enough. Next. If there's a double plan to increase the blurry of cars, which, by the way, can hit substantially across the middle class, which, by the way, was the driving force of the dignity revolution, why is it that only 6-7 percent increase in the blurry of airplanes, screwdrivers and yachts? I understand they're registering abroad, but if our services know which of our rich people here are using this luxury and registering it abroad, that's how this matter needs to be resolved. Next. Society, we must now go back to the topic of return to state ownership of those strategic enterprises that have been illegally privatized, and that will be the revenue of the state budget article. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u31	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u32	The very right thing to say is that we can now move on to a progressive scale of taxation, but we need to be very careful about that. We're saying, by the way, that those who have a total gross of more than a million, not 25 percent, percent, but 30 percent, maybe even 34 percent, and that's going to be socially fair. And finally, we also strongly oppose the removal of VAT from grain exports and literally what Freedom is proposing today, let's immediately adopt our bills for the return of stolen funds, which are hidden in offshors here, this is the budget replenishment. Let's support our bill on the elimination of private monopolies, on measures to eliminate the pension deficit. These are real concrete steps to fill our budget. And yet, not many, two million, but as for the import moment for the book products that need to be increased urgently, by the way, this includes the production on the side of Russia, our current enemy and our ancient enemy. And then we can actually raise the Ukrainian economy and help develop the middle class and all the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All those who signed up, we can. Colleagues, please give Oleg a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I'll tell you that now in the Supreme Council, it stinks of political bodies, communists have appeared, regionals have appeared that have robbed the country, tens of billions of dollars have been raised abroad, robbed of every pensioner, every black man, every veteran, every disabled person. And today they come out and pour crocodile tears, as you can see, the country is living badly. My advice is to return the stolen goods, return the gold, return the gold, return the $70 billion they stole. And then our Ukrainian people will have a normal life, and we won't have to stretch their seatbelts. And to you, Alexander Valentine's Day, what do you call the political corpses "friends," is it the freida concoction or what? What are your friends? They are friends of the Ukrainian people. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I am friends to all the national MPs, and to those who have conscience and responsibility, those to me, indeed, are friends. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to allow me to comment on the comments that have been made by the deputy minister of finance. The Minister of Finance is writing down, I understand, comments from deputies. And I beg you, please. Who's the minister? The Minister of Social Policy was also asked to comment on the comments made by the people’s deputies about social protection. Please, while the Minister of Finance writes, I ask Ludmila Leontiyevna, comment, please, on the comments made by the MPs who were concerned with the social protection of citizens. Prepare the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u36	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to comment on some of the questions you've been asked. With regard to the only social contribution, article 4 states that persons who are legally assisted in caring for a child before reaching the age of three and who are paid the only social contribution. But article 7 states that these contributions are made by the State. That is, if we have this program today, together with a program to help with the birth of a child. These two programs. That is to say, he is now the payer of a person who receives help in the birth of a child, but in the seventh article, there is a rule that pays the State’s contributions. Is that clear? This is the first time. Secondly, for today, you know, I'm not going to convince you here that the situation is very difficult, we need to increase assistance to the Pension Fund, the grant, three times. Now it's in the budget of 11 billion, it's going to be 33 billion. So we've certainly been looking for money where to find it to make up for these expenses and then not to reduce the minimum wage and the minimum wage so as not to reduce our citizens' pensions. I'll tell you about some of them, I don't think you've heard of them. We leave all the benefits, including transportation, for our war veterans, the Chernobylites, the children of war, the families of many children, but we provide targeted benefits for those who are entitled to them on a professional basis. These benefits will be paid from the average monthly total income of the family for one person in the previous 6 months so that he does not exceed the amount of income that gives him the right to social tax benefits. That's the first one. The second thing I'd like to say is that we're reducing the size of special pensions. Someone may not like it, but we do. Today, the average pension in our country is 1 thousand 526 dollars, with civil servants twice as much, with the prosecutor three times, with the judges eight times, with the national deputies ten times. Therefore, we suggest that 80 percent of those employees’ wages should be adjusted by 70 percent. That'll give us another resource. Then we're the government's decree, so here we are. Not all legislative acts are. There is a government decree that was adopted at the government on Monday. We've made this decision about expanding the base on which the pension is assigned, so we've changed -- not 24 months, but 60 months. That makes it possible. We know everyone in two. In 24 months, people increase their salary, some pay, and there will be 60 months, or five years, they will have to work in this position, earn something, and then they will have a pension. As for the size of the subsistence minimum to the minimum wage. You know, in that situation that's in the state right now, you even had to cut those payments. But they will not be reduced. And when such a situation occurs that from October 1st we will have to pay increased rates for residential services, we will be given such a government decree that from 1 to 6 tariff levels of the Single Tariff Network will increase salaries for these workers, which will enable us to raise these salaries. And once again, I would like to remind you of the program that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has told you that since October 1st, we will have to make compensation payments that will give us the opportunity of 4 million. Over 4 million families support this complex situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like the MPs to step away from the finance minister who is now commenting on the MP's remarks. The only one. I was approached by a deputy Kanovec who couldn't get through to the minister of finance. Turn on the microphone for one minute, he wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! I want to speak to Alexander Vitaliovich Schlapak, Minister of Finance. Focus on the expenses of the capital and the fund. the State Regional Development Fund. What is currently recorded in the draft budget is a violation of the budget code, as the State Regional Development Fund cannot be less than 1 percent of the general government budget fund. You're predicting a capital cost of 2.4 billion that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. You're making the same mistake that the previous authorities did. So in manual mode, you're going to be the Cabinet of Ministers without Parliament, without a budget committee to distribute capital costs. The State Regional Development Fund allows the region to hear proposals from below. I find that unacceptable and urgent correction. Otherwise, I will not vote in favour of such a draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I think we have experience with you as it is done: writing down a position. Please. Alexander Vitaliyovich, pay attention! Consider that, at the expense of money, Kabin makes a decision after agreeing with the Committee on Budgets. That would be normal. That would still be parliamentary control of the matter. Please, colleagues, don't distract the Minister of Finance. Alexander Vitaliyovich, turn on your microphone and comment, please, on the suggestions that have been made so that we can now make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u40	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! A few suggestions I haven't been able to make, I'd like to make now. The first of these concerns taxation. On the committee we really talked about the possibility of increasing taxation of such naphtha, gas condensate not to 42 percent, but to 45 percent from a depth of 5,000 meters, 25 percent from a depth of more than 5,000 meters. As far as radio taxation is concerned. We really have a problem here. We've raised it for everyone, and so we're going to increase the monopolization of the market. And so here's the proposition: for the 15 megahertz band, raise the radio frequency by 50 percent, for others to pick up twice. Finally, with regard to the Presidential Administration. Which was, "to cut the spending on the president's administration by 30 percent." Because only Feofania remains there. With regard to excise duty, it's twice the cost of transportation. And finally, two words about the army. I want to explain again, there is no pleasure in the army. By replacing today, freezing the minimum wage and pension, we have unfortunately cut the potential wage for all of us today. No one reduces the military's financial support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, taking into account the most important issue of the sovereignty of the state, this is a priority for us in the conditions in which Ukraine is located, I ask that the head of the Committee of Lithuania, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, be given a minute. The closing word is Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u42	Your Honor, the Honourable Prime Minister and members of the government, Your Honor! The Committee, in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft budget in part of the security and defence sector. We have made such a decision, and I would ask the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister to support it. The Committee considers that under the conditions under which Ukraine resides, it is unacceptable to make decisions in part to reduce the costs of the security and defence sector. That's about a billion dollars. Of these, more than half a billion dollars is the Ministry of Defense, the State Foreign Service Administration. The other one. The committee proposes to introduce a moratorium on reducing the number of security and defence authorities, which is 10 percent. The committee also proposes to refrain from sequestering a social security package for military personnel, primarily housing and pension insurance. I very much ask you to support us in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u44	Dear national deputies, under the conditions under which decisions are made, are not simple decisions, we insist that decisions be made first of all with regard to self-restraint and the abolition of payments far from the poorest. As we understand the complexity of the situation, we insist that some of the rules that apply to the government's laws be abolished rather than suspended. This is chapter three, which provides for the payment of assistance in retirement on special pension systems far from poorer categories of people. Even the report of the Cabinet of Ministers states that at the time of retirement, individual categories of pensioners receive up to 400,000 sums. Such benefits do not come from regular pensioners. So we're proposing that all of the positions in chapter three, except for the last item, replace the "deceased action" rule with "rescind action".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u45	Thank you. I understand that Minfin supports this proposal. Yes, Alexander Vitaliovich? Supports. Dear colleagues, Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to ask the honourable deputies, I can address you, my friends, also, allow me to comment on the Prime Minister's situation now. The only thing I would ask, Arsenija Petrovich, was that there was a lot of talk about the power of the state. As far as the army is concerned, let's leave this position. And the proposal was for deputies to compensate for excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. I think it's going to be the right thing to do. Yes or no? Those who abuse alcohol and tobacco will help us to preserve the financing of the army. I would ask that we take this into account. Hall, I see, is fully supported. Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u46	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to make it clear that this bill, like all other bills that are adopted and adopted by the Ukrainian Parliament, is far from ideal. It is offered under extreme conditions. And it's quite clear that in a week, a month, a six-month period, we're going to have to make changes to both these laws and to a dozen other laws that aren't even being considered in Parliament today. This bill is a defibrillator for the Ukrainian economy, not to die. And it is from this point of view that I would like to consider this bill and the Budget Act. There's been a lot of right proposals here, and the most interesting thing was to listen to the right suggestions from political opponents, who, for four years, somehow do everything exactly to the contrary, so that this government would now take responsibility for a decade of lack of reform in the country, but we're taking this responsibility. And when you talk about changing each other, we change, we change when we can save the country from bankruptcy. Now on specific proposals that have been made. In addition to what has already been stated by the minister of finance and by the committee of profile, several questions have been raised. The first question raised by Alexander Valentinovich and the Ukrainian national deputies about the financing of the Armed Forces. Let me remind you that here in Parliament's walls, you and I have decided to form a reserve fund, the main objective of which should be to finance national security and defences of 6.8 billion dollars. On Monday, I turned to the Ministry of Defense to make sure that the billions of funds in the Ministry of Defence accounts were used only not as always, but to start using and coming to a particular military officer, to each military unit, and to address the viability of the Ukrainian army. So you can see that the troops have come out of a permanent location, if it isn't difficult, but we're providing them with fuel, batteries, tires, boots, what we're now able to provide quickly. Is that enough? Not enough. But at the same time, we have a resource of 6.8 billion. Therefore, it is proposed, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich, to make use of the funds that were now adopted by the previous amendments to the State Budget Act, which provided for the additional funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces of 6.8 billion. Yes, Alexander Vitaliovich? Yes. Next. The situation will change, and it will change, and we will meet in this Parliamentary Hall and where the improvement will be called, there, believe me, there will be 400 votes and no decision by the Ukrainian government. The second is about a series of proposals made by the strike faction. I'll walk directly to Vitaly Volodymyrovich. The first thing he demanded was to eliminate the excess special pensions for the authorities and other authorities. So I'm reporting that we're changing the order of pensions and we're actually transferring everyone from 80 percent to 70 percent, as is the case with all Ukrainian citizens. The other one. As far as pensions are concerned, which are higher than 10,000 dollars. Remember, the judges of the Constitutional Court made their own decisions, where others were allowed to receive higher pensions. We've found a way to limit these high pensions. A pension of more than 10,000 dollars is taxed. And so this is going to be socially fair. Third. Regarding the simplification of the tax procedure. I report that there is no simplification of the tax procedure in this bill. For that simple reason, we need to adopt a new version of the Tax Code, which would predict a reduction in taxes to eight and an expansion of the tax base. As a government, we are ready for the widest discussion to introduce this bill from next year. Enter a new tax system. The simpler the tax system, the harder it is to bypass it. The simpler the tax system, the less likely the employee to take bribes. This is the question that Anatoly Kirilovich has raised as a group leader, which, boys, you are now proposing a fiscal package, is true. We want to propose a package of reforms, sit together and make a new edition of the Tax Code since 2015. Third. The hit raised questions about the merger of ministries and authorities. I'm informing you, signed and published by the government, that, by the way, you also raised this question, the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the Ministry of Economics, Anatoly Kirilovich wrote the same letter, pouring it into one single ministry. On the one hand, this will reduce the number of officials, on the other hand, increases the management of the industry. The decision was taken, and the government made the right decision. Four. As far as the tax administration system is concerned. Three days ago, more precisely two, the head of the Future Tax Service was called to a meeting of the government, and he is now in the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly Management preparing for the Tax Service. A customs officer, and a tax officer. Clear jobs have been set for: (a) the destruction of so-called tax havens. This is a corrupt scheme that was controlled by the former Ministry, where there were points of access to the Ministry of Income and Assembly database, from these points of access on the network, think, in the closed network of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, they did only one thing -- they counted who earned what they earned to then bring in the minister's pocket and everything else. We've destroyed the scheme now, and we, the other one, have destroyed the money-laundering scheme. But now there are so - called guerrillas who continue to overwhelm the shadow economy with shadow money. Tax police, along with the National Bank, have launched a tracking operation for every bank and every firm that's fictitious about money laundering. We are aware of what this is today in the country. Because if the economy is 50 percent shaded, what would it require? It's going to require 50 percent of the shadow cost. And if we don't solve the problem of childishizing the economy, we're going to be chasing it for a long time and we're not going to catch up. If we don't transfer everyone to a cash-free account, if we don't cut the cash base, and if we don't get everyone to pay honest taxes and overcome corruption in the tax and customs system. What are we now proposing? We wanted to immediately convert everyone into a cash-free form of calculation and to let you know such an offer in the government was there. How? Enter the cashiers. But I can honestly tell you that we would now vote for the introduction of cashiers, and a new tax haven would immediately appear. So we need to take a step back now so that small and medium-sized businesses don't feel pressured. But that doesn't mean that we're going to stop at a part of detining the economy and persecuting the criminal gang of money launderers. It's not like we're ever gonna collect taxes. Customs. I'm reporting the customs situation. Three more weeks ago, the main sweeps were at Odessa Customs, when for 1 container, 4 weeks ago, when for 1 container, the average bribe was paid up to $60,000 in cash. We covered up Odessa. Now the following story begins: Where did the tax police and customs go? They began to flee to domestic customs. The system is built so hard that we haven't been able to clean all of them physically in these three weeks, but we're working on them day by day. Third. It's a vodka-related excise. I've been demonstrating across the country: according to our estimate, 30 percent of the vodka that was made is a vodka that didn't pay a penny of excise duty or a penny of tax, that's all the vodka on the left. We've arrested several factories and several criminal cases, including state-owned companies called Ukrispirt. And we're going to make sure that there's no corruption in state companies, and those who have been in corruption have to go to the prosecutor and to the court, and if they break the law, they have to go to jail. We're not going to change the system either. We can't just raise taxes, change the tax base without solving the issue of childization and tax administration, and we're also making this plain to you. Next, what about income tax proposals? It's called a tax on rich people's income. The Impact faction suggests an approach to simplifying the tax system for the rich. I'll give the floor to the Minister of Finance again. Alexander Vitaliyovich, so that we can finally say the approach by which we will tax the incomes of the rich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the following proposal is made to conduct such taxation once a year, according to last year. The bets look like this, we've taken as the main norm, the rate after which the employer stops to charge the corresponding payments to the Pension Fund and the social funds, this bet of 10 minimum salaries, it's essentially 236,000. The bottom rate is 10 tax benefits, that's about 20,000 today. So whoever pays up to 20,000 doesn't pay up to 236,000 to pay 15 percent. From 236 to half a million will pay 20 percent, over half a million will pay 25 percent. All of it. I want to emphasize this. In order to make a profit, for example, 100,000 dollars a year, you have to have a deposit close to, I'm afraid to make a mistake, about 600,000, so we're taxing, we're calculating 1.3 of the population of Ukraine in this way. I'd like to agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u49	Next. Now, in article 170, 174-1, the Impact faction suggests that the taxpayer's tax agents, when they collect interest income payments, are the person who makes such a payment. Period. You don't hear that. It excludes the words "except for the banking institution." This is your faction's offer, dear friends, you are. It doesn't contradict anything. Inside, please say what.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u50	Arsenius Petrovich, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u51	Now, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u52	Members are asked to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u53	What do you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u54	Members are asked to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u55	All questions need to be answered. Now, the proposal that goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine should not be taxed is that 300 euros should be added to the European standard of 150 euros -- also counted. 150 euros. Plus, you've been put on. Dear colleagues, now those things that asked me questions on a few factions. The issue was to continue to compensate for the added tax on grain exports. Once again, I would like to state the official position of the government. If we speak honestly, it will be order. The tax compensation for the added cost of exporting grain has no bearing on aid to farmers. This is a clean scheme that allowed additional revenue to be derived from the government budget, from our pockets, from Ukrainian pockets of five billion dollars over the course of the year. I remind you, the Ukrainian agro-industry sector is exempt from VAT payments. Right? That's right. We don't return them to a general VAT payment scheme, they don't pay VAT, they raised grain. They didn't sell the grain themselves. They sold it to the traders. And the trader takes and pays off 20 percent that no one has paid anyone. And this 20 percent has to be taken from the retiree, from the teacher, from the doctor to make more money from the trader company. So our proposal is not to reimburse VAT on grain exports, first. Second, to leave for agribusiness enterprises a special tax system that really helps a peasant and that does not oblige a farmer to pay 20 percent of the VAT. Is Good a Scheme? Well, there's no better, well, there's no better. Let's make a decision to change the tax system for agrarians -- let's think about it. Well, there's no other way. If anyone has a choice, suggest. And the alternative is to steal five billion dollars from the budget again, we're not going to do that, we're not going to do that. Dear friends and distinguished national MPs are still a number of suggestions. Once again, the laws are far from perfect. Let's vote -- they'll take decisions from international financial organizations. We're going to sit here free in Parliament's walls, make changes, add something, subtract something, balance it, but it's already a process. That's why we need to start the process. That is why we propose to vote in favour of two laws, to start the process of obtaining international financial assistance. Next. As Prime Minister, I assure you that 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, come and tell me how much better. Are you from the opposition or are you from most or are you independent if you come and say, "I know how to make the country better," I'm your first assistant and your whole government is your first assistant. But if you come and say, "We know here, there was this pattern here, can we lead this scheme?" – I have no choice but to publicly state and address the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Bureau. It wasn't the time, it wasn't the people on the Maidan, it wasn't the 103 that killed them, it was the only thing left now. That's not gonna happen. And with such a mission came this government and personally me. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. I'm calling you: Dear friends! That is how I address those deputies who are ready to take responsibility and not to let the country into bankruptcy for four years. Now in connection with the call of the Party of Regions: they insist on voting in the agenda, - I do not deny it, my fellow Members. Now, pay attention! – so you can understand who's voting for what. Let me get in the daytime, and I'll give you a line right now, okay? Yes, it is. In order of the day, I'll give you a line. I'm begging you! Dear colleagues, please, I'll give you all the lines. Let us now repeat two laws that prevent the bankruptcy of our country: 4576, 4574 – inclusion in the agenda. Please, please, and. All others are included in the order of the day, respected colleagues. I will include this law. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to support, including the Party of Regions. Please vote on the inclusion of these two laws in the order of the day. Please vote. [[17:58:28]] For 259. Decision taken. The factions, please. 3 – Party of Regions, 83 – Fatherland, 34 – Impact, 32 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign Ukraine, 34.0 – Company, non-fractional – 42. Dear colleagues! I promised a lineup for the leader of Vitaly Klicka's strike party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! 259 votes. What are you talking about? Calm down. Please. People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! It is clear to all of us that the conditions are very difficult and, indeed, we need to find the sources for today's budget that our predecessors and colleagues have left us. But that defibrillator you told me about today wouldn't want to, on the other hand, put him in the heart of agriculture. I want to say the next thing. Today the contracts of the State Grain Company, which the peasants promised to buy the corn, are not executed. The agrarian fund is not committed. We have 25 days before the soybeans are finished. The only source today that can give these costs to the peasants and make the corn they sown, first of all, non-corruptible, are the traders we're talking about today. This is international money just like the money of the International Monetary Fund. It's all happening. That's why. I realize it's very difficult, but today we have to leave the conditions that will allow agriculture to stand on its feet today. This is the first exporter in the state. He got up on his feet just because of the positive changes that had taken place in the field. Let's not break these changes. I understand there may be some abuse, but there's the DA's office, the M.E. Work on them and achieve results, but do not kill the Ukrainian village. And today the question of the progressive stake is what our faction demanded.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u58	Finish up, please. Finish up. Progressive bet. Come on. Guys, we need to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u59	Just a few more questions. The question of a progressive wager. The issue of currency taxation is, you know, when these grandmothers put that dollar away and they pay us every time. So there are some questions that might be worth paying attention to in order to have a consolidated hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u60	Thank you. Please, two lines. I see two hands. The National MP Rudzkowski and Kirilenko, I understand, also wanted to ask you an agrarian question. And the People's Deputies of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u61	Dear citizens of Ukraine! It's about paying off big, respectable colleagues. This isn't about peasants. You don't have to hide with the peasants. Large holdings have more than 100,000 acres [100,000 ha] of land, up to half a million acres [half a million ha]. Families live in Switzerland. We're just plain people now, and we want to save billions of dollars. Let's not do that. If everyone cares about the state, if everyone cares about people, please, agrarian holdings should be shared. They get 40 percent of their profits every year, they destroy all their jobs in the villages, and they destroy their livestock. Two men are needed from the village to cultivate the land. We need to change agricultural policy at all. Destroy the holdings at all, so people can.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u62	Thank you. Please, people's representative of Sigal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! Let us learn to tell the truth! Let us not lie to ourselves and to men! For this year, the cost of one tonne of corn is between 800 and 1,000 dollars. I'll prove it to you. Today the price of sales is 2,300, or more than 100 percent. Find me a branch in our farm in Ukraine or abroad. Where the profitability is 100 percent. First. It's different. Let's remember the past again. Once there was a farm in the villages, and half a thousand people worked. There were FAPIs, schools, gardening. The streets were with asphalt and the lighting was there. Today, the same land has been taken by private capital and works in this village by 10 people, not 500. It's a very profitable sector. So if we talked about democracy, we need everyone to pay taxes in comparison. And today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u64	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u65	Today, peasants lose nothing at all. Today, peasants have VAT benefits. They don't pay VAT. All VAT is left in the peasants. Trader bought a grain that has VAT, which is offset by the budget. He has reselled this grain more expensively, and once again the state has to take money from the poor and take it from the rich. Let's stop lying in this room at least. Let's be honest and true. VAT on all kinds of grains: technical, nutritional, no right to return. Once upon a time. Corn, wheat, soybeans, rye, raps, barley, and so forth, VAT is reimbursed once, not twice. Let's stop corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u66	I see. Ivan Grigorovitch, please, friends, in a minute. And the People's Deputies of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u67	Dear friends, I would like to refer to the agrarians who are present in the hall, who will now vote, and may not be meeting. Dear Tarase Viktorovich, I address you personally. Dear friends, let's thank the government for one year, 10 years, they've been swinging each time to eliminate VAT for agriculture. For, directly, the slave on earth. This government is leaving this benefit. It's VAT, and it's still on the farm. What's with the traders? What do traders do, people are good? What VAT should traders pay back? Did you hear what the sum is, what are the billions? You've heard another truth, how much more is there to replace, how much fatter people are there. You don't know how much of the compensation goes to waste? And then we're going to complain to this government that they're doing it. I beg you, my friends, please. Thank you for leaving VAT for the village. Traders don't need that kind of help. This will be the first to strike corruption, my friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u68	Thank you. National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u69	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, let's just go down and stop the presidential campaign. You know, we're getting calls right now, we're putting our accents clearly. But let’s essentially say objectively: The situation in the country is difficult. Objectively, where peasants are first looked. Objectively: It may be necessary to cancel the VAT return. But we have to tell the villagers objectively, because as a result of the differences in VAT to traders, they're still going to leave their $5 behind, but they're going to lower the price for peasants. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we should bow down to the villagers and thank them for their understanding of the matter! And finish your agitation, and think of the state! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, the subject, I understand, is of great concern to the deputies here. People's deputy Kulinic from Economic Development and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I strongly disagree with the statement that VAT should not be returned. Because if we do that, we'll bury the agriculture completely. It's not about traders, it's about the manufacturer. We say we have to return to whoever produced this agricultural product and to whoever bought it. The farmer still pays the VAT when he acquires the means of protection, the seeds, when he acquires diesel fuel, he pays the VAT. And in this case, we're just going to lose the Ukrainian village. I disagree with national MP Sigal when he says some incomprehensible things about corn. The corn was completely damaged in 2013. What are we talking about, what's 2,300? You're completely out of your mind. Dear colleagues, this rule must be left to manufacturers and to those who have purchased it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister wishes to comment before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u73	With all due respect, I refer to all the positions that are expressed. Some for the VAT, some for the VAT, some for the VAT. I would just like to remind everyone of those who spoke first of all for paying off VAT to exporters. You must have forgotten, last year, no one compensated the budget for anything but 13 percent of the gross agricultural output. This year we wanted to make another 5 billion dollars in the budget. Once again, I say the position of the government. Last year, the village demonstrated the highest rates of growth and return without paying off VAT. We suggest doing the same thing this year, not giving traders 5 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, and pay attention! There was an offer to vote the budget changes first and, by number, the number. Please, Arseny Petrovich, I know. By number, it's also the first law of 4575. Colleagues, budget changes have been commented on, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have stressed what proposals have been taken into account and the comments that have been taken into account. At the same time, knowing that they were speaking out of voice, we are sure to do so. Colleagues, I'm paying attention, this is for the stenographer. We're going to be technical editing to have a balanced position, because there were a lot of questions out of the voice. So, your honors, please take your seats and support courageously draft number 4575 of the Act on. Arseny Petrovich, well, believe me, I know what I'm doing, yeah. Once again, 4,575 amendments to Ukraine's State Budget 2014 Act. Please, Your Honor, back up and vote, please. On the basis and in general. We vote. [[18:10:50]] For 228 Thank you. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 82, Klicka - 20, Economic Development - 31, Sovereign Ukraine - 29, Freedom - 34, Company - 0, non-fractional - 32. Dear colleagues, we now have a more fundamental law, the most important law that will not actually allow the budget to work and balance the country's financial resources when we don't accept it. So please, now, wait, don't slow down, please, I'll let you speak. This is Law 4576, the draft Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and the Establishment of Premature Prematures for Ukraine’s Growth. All who want to protect the country are now required to vote. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you for a basis as a whole. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please vote everyone. [[18:12:30.]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 0, "Fatherland" is 78, "Klicka" is 11 everything, "Economic development" is 3 everything, "Sovereign Ukraine" is 31, "Freedom" is 34, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 32. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the faction leaders now to take one minute to comment on the situation. Please turn on the microphone, but remember, until we are fully accepted, we are not separated. So please don't close the buffet, make dinner for the people's deputies. Please sign up for 1 minute from the factions. Dear colleagues, we work, we work. Please show me the names of the deputies. Dear colleagues, please, from Fatherland, National Deputy Greenevich, to whom does he pass the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u75	Cooge.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u76	I'll take it!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u77	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u78	Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u79	Thank you very much. I want to point out that we have discussed that when we vote on the budget, we are looking at the income part of the articles that our leader, the leader of our faction of Sobolev, is looking at the amendment of Alexandra Kugel and the national deputy of Shevchuk. I ask that in connection with this in the Tax Code bill, chapter XV be deleted. This gives you an extra 500 and more million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u80	Please, "North European Ukraine," who's speaking? I'm writing down the National Deputy of Vaschuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u81	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Our faction, the group supported it. However, we have a number of wishes that we have made today when we meet with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Finance, with the Vice Prime Minister, this refers to a few important very important moments. First, regional development of areas, areas, social and economic areas, debt repayments on wages in the regions. And it's also about changing some of the points that are allowed in taxing the APC, they need to be changed immediately -- it doesn't affect the budget, we passed the laws. But it allows for an additional specific peasant.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u83	A peasant, not a trader, not a middleman, get extra money. So we want to hear once again the government's assurance that they will be taken into account gradually in the government's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u84	Thank you. All I ask is that the Minister of Finance listen to the MPs' comments so that we can make a consolidated decision. Please, Rosenko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u85	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u86	Turn on Oksana's mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u87	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished Arsenija Petrovich. The Vitalia Klitka faction thanks you for agreeing to our proposals, agreeing to lower the rate offered by the individual's income tax. They agreed that the banking institutions should act as tax agents and not force people to serve the state themselves. They agreed to remove special benefits from high - tech workers as well as to leave behind the social security conditions that military personnel today have. At the same time, we believe that there must be a banking secret in Ukraine that this bill "murders". We think that the real estate tax should apply exclusively to the residential area, but not to the total area where you can count both the booths and the barns and everything else, if it's a house in the village. Similarly, we don't think it's necessary, we think that the interest on the purchase and sale of currency should be abolished -- those are the standards that have to be changed to make people live easier and compensate. We've suggested cutting down a number of central governments -- there's no such thing. We offered to leave no progressive scale of taxes on the income of individuals, which too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u88	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u89	Leaving existing taxes on the income of natural persons will leave more income to the budget than is proposed in those projects provided by the government. Thank you. We expect our proposals to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u90	Please, National Deputy Homutinnik. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u91	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, honourable Arsenius Petrovich, our proposal is to put the bill to the vote, this is a very important bill and the basic standards of this bill we really support. But there are complex things that we still need to discuss. So there's a proposal to vote as it should, if there's a point to the people's MPs, to vote on the basis of the bill, to pass this bill to the Tax and Customs Committee, because there's 90 percent of the tax rules. We're ready to spend the shortest time, half an hour, an hour, reconcile issues with the government and get out, if you want, today's final decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u92	Please, Miroshnichenko "Freedom" passes the word to Oleg Tegnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u93	Dear Society, this is a decision in the Ukrainian Parliament that we must now adopt, it is a super ultra unpopular decision and that is perfectly understandable. But in fact, we need to take responsibility for ourselves in the last month or so, and there's a small choice, either we're statesmen or we're populists. And if today's decision is not made, Putin in Moscow will applaud this broken, in fact, coalition that doesn't have a majority and, basically, there's no understanding that in this situation we need to use anti-crisis methods and we need to take responsibility. I'm addressing, first of all, our coalition partners, let's concentrate, let's take this responsibility, even though we're actually going to get beat up after this law is passed. But the time will come and you will see that this is the solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u94	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u95	You'll see that this decision in this situation of over-deep crisis in Ukraine was only correct. Let's not let the Party of the Regions and Communists who are playing the Kremlin flute today lead us on a whim. We must take on this not popular responsibility now, but it is our responsibility to be statesmen. Then you will see who is in favor of the interests of Ukraine and who is in favor of the Kremlin. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, Party of Regions, Ice cream.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u97	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! MP Morozenko, 28th District, Dnepropetrovsk. Please give the floor to Dudenkov Alexander Valerjevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear representatives of the public, distinguished voters! We stress once again that the adoption of the "wheels" bills that are very important to the economy and the country as a whole is impossible because they have very serious consequences. Let's start by saying that the bill was not a committee of profile. What are the big tax experts there? I support the committee head's position that the bill should be through the Tax and Customs Committee. What will we have after the adoption of this bill? Bank system collapse, deposits will start shooting people. What we're going to have in the legal sphere when wages and large wages are paid by employers and not by many. There will be no paid fees, there will be no counting, there will be conversions – it will definitely be. As a subject of the legislative initiative, I have a point to make. Accordingly, the honourable chairman, I would like to take into account that in the event that the MPs have comments on the bill (I request this to be submitted to the transcript, to the minutes of the plenary session), this bill cannot be voted on as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, a few announcements. Please be careful. First. I'm fixing my position for the stenographer. Please entrust the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, with the necessary clarifications to the text and Appendices in accordance with the decision taken by the Supreme Council on Law 4575. This is for the protocol, so that we can balance those positions that have been taken by the national MPs. Besides, my dear colleagues, I'm informing you that people on the street don't break up. They expect us to move on after the adoption of the Law (4576) on the prevention of a financial catastrophe to the adoption of the decisions that we promised them, on the Laws on Amendments to the Tax Code on the Cancellation of Environmental Taxation, on the Laws on Restoration of Trust in the Judicial System, on Defence Laws and on the Information Act (0947). So, dear colleagues, I would ask that people work more effectively so that they don't suffer in the street with us until morning, because it's harder for them to stand than the deputies here in the hall. Please, Your Honor, I request a recess of 15 minutes and I invite the leaders of the factions and members of the coalition to the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Fifteen minutes off, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u100	I'd like the deputies to come into the session room. The Supreme Council will continue its work. We have until morning. Very many important laws must now be passed, including laws regarding the utilization congregation, which our citizens are insisting on near the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to invite everyone into the hall, to invite everyone to the hall. The bug's working on the street, don't worry. Colleagues, I'm asking the deputies to take their seats. I ask the Secretariat to announce in all the towers, buffets and so forth, all the deputies to the session room, all of them. I'm also asking the Cabinet of Ministers to come forward, because they have to make a sound at the position that the negotiations were now going to. Please call the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance. I'm going to the faction leaders. Please announce to your deputies a meeting at the Supreme Council, in the session hall. Secretariat, do you work? Is the announcement coming? Turn it on louder. Ladies and gentlemen, it was very difficult to negotiate in order to adopt a law that was the custodian of our country's financial disaster, which should create preconditions for economic growth, without the adoption of all other laws, including the liquidation assembly, support for the country's security, did not work, because the country was a bankruptcy. We need to get the country out of bankruptcy. And I ask that every national MP be held responsible for voting, for making decisions. Turn on the minister's microphone. Please comment on the format for which we will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u101	Dear National Deputies! The discussion that took place in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council ended with the next compromise. Two of the most controversial standards. The first one is the price of naphtha in the oil part. We decided to leave the current rate of 39 percent. The second part of the compromise applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u102	No, no, wait! That's not the deal. We agreed that the gas condensate would increase to 42 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u103	Oh, it is. It's a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u104	And oil is 39 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u106	And you tell me whose proposals are there for the people to know. Whose proposals? Let the people know who.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u107	And the second proposal concerns exemption from VAT transactions from grain exports. We've come to the next compromise. This is the standard of release from operations. The tax exemption for the added value of the operation from the export of grain and technical crops is to be introduced in the format in which it is laid down in today’s law, not as of 1 January, but as of 1 October 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u108	So it's only about a new crop. I'll explain, dear colleagues, about the proposals. The first proposal is a proposal for economic development. The second proposal is for agrarians, it's for impact and economic development. Please. Dear colleagues, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. If we don't vote for the law, the budget will lose everything. That's what I'm paying attention to. That is why we are obliged to make a decision today. Please turn on the Speaker's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u109	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I'm also asking the finance minister to talk about other positions that we've discussed. A tax on the income of natural persons. Still, to confirm the finality of our work. We insist that the end limit be at least 25 percent. And so it doesn't apply to wages. Because there's still a wage bill for the Labour Fund, and then we're going to be 60 to 70 percent of the workload. That's the first one. Secondly, tell me now what we're going to end up with in the form of deposit taxation? These are also interconnected things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u110	I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u111	Dear friends, I'll explain again. The salary does not refer in any way to passive income. If you remember the form of the declaration, all of us have filled it out, there is the first chapter, where the wages are paid. We continue to pay 15-17 rates at her rate depending on the salary. There's a second chapter called Passive Income. This includes interest on deposits, interest on bonds, royalty, and dividends. These incomes are going to be taxed. I told you about the bets. Three scales: 15, 20 and 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u112	I mean, respectable colleagues, wages, even high wages, will not be taxed on a progressive scale. The minister of finance said that, and this will be clearly reflected in the law. Dear colleagues! I ask you to sit down, insert ballots and now. David Vajajevic, I ask you very much to help save the country. And now, dear colleagues, I ask you to adopt the draft Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and to create preconditions for Ukraine's economic growth (registration number 4576). What else, Arseny Petrovich? Turn on the Prime Minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u113	Turn on the Prime Minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u114	The impact faction wants to sound something other than VAT compensation, that's 167 para. 1, aha, we've already accepted that. That's what's going on with the wage-free rate. 174.1 has already been announced under the transcript. 265.4 This applies to the real estate tax for natural persons in rural areas. The voice from the hall. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u115	Dear friends, well, read the law. Oh, come on. That's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Honorable Faction of Strike, consider whether we will refer the Conch of Zapa to the countryside. That's why there's an offer. There's a good saying: "The best is the enemy of the good." Let's make this decision for now. And if we see that when we make this decision, we have problems, we will fix it. We'll make it right. Next, it is very important that the benefits of government officials do not stop but cancel. This editorial is absolutely correct. With the protection of the military, we've notified you. And on the basis of the child's payment, an editorial bill on the sole social contribution that Ludmila Denisov made with you. We've already included the bank's secret. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats in the end. I hope this time we're going to vote. Please, Your Honor, take the responsibility to deal with this decision. I'm putting it to a vote and I'm asking you to support the adoption of the law (number 4576) that I've announced, and I'm asking you to support it as a whole. Please vote on the technical regulations that have been announced. [[20:00:24]] For 246 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – up to 1, Fatherland – 81, Impact – 37, Economic Development – 32, Sovereign European Ukraine – 32, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we now consider very quickly the draft laws on which our citizens insist and on which the MPs themselves insist, many of them have made such proposals. Now I'm asking you to put two laws in order of day that resolve the issue of cancelling the environmental tax for disposal. These are projects (come on, I'm not sure they're involved, let's do it again) 3332 MPs and 4238 (authors: Miroshnichenko and Sold). Please support the inclusion of these projects in the agenda. Please vote. [[20:01:40]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we let the government work? Oh, no? May they suffer with us or what? Dear colleagues, I ask the government to work. Arsenija Petrovich, I understand that you like Parliament, please work on the implementation of the laws that we have now adopted so hard. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support a reduced procedure for making decisions on these issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? Dear colleagues, it's difficult to do this because there are two laws. Which one to vote without discussion? Please, Mr. Derevyanko has been working on this issue, allowing him to turn on the microphone. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u117	Honorable colleagues, these two bills, which relate to the abolition of the utilizational assembly and the abolition of excise duty. These two bills are one in 3332 and the other in 4238. So the 4238 fully takes into account all the standards set out in 3332. And the drafters of Bill 3332 are co-authors of Bill 4238. These bills are united. So I ask you to vote and now make only one decision on Bill 4438.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u118	Once again, what's the law? 4238. I'm asking the author literally for one minute. Miroshenko Igor Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u119	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'll take a minute, your honor. I want to remind you of the circumstances in which this utilizational congregation was approved when there were deputies here, including those in our sessional room, who were lobbying and lobbying this bill. A bill that draws money from our car owners’ pockets, including private business, including members of the Supreme Council. So we registered in September the Law on the Cancellation of the Disposal Congregation. Another very important rule — the lifting of excise duty on the remodelling of cars — has been added to this rule of cancellation of the recycling congregation. And they have united all these standards in one law, 4238. That's why the All-Ukrainian Freedom and Strike Party and the other MPs who have registered this bill are calling for everyone to vote in favour of this law and remove the tension in society, even though a small part of social justice is enshrined in this bill, it will be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u120	I'm sorry. Igor! Igor! Igor, one moment! As far as excise duties are concerned. How's the settled question? So we don't get all the excises on the car, do you understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u121	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u122	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u123	Excises for remodeling cars are included in this law 42. [[B in m in s a l in]] Not all excises are for remodeling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u124	I'd like the government to comment on that question, please. Thank you. Please, Oksana Prodan, one minute. Out of place, please turn on Oksani Sell.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u125	I very much ask all colleagues in the room to support the bill, this bill, which is part of Project 4238, is a continuation of the three projects that were introduced in the last year by the Faction of the Strike, the Faction of the Fatherland and the Faction of Freedom. This bill restores the status quo, which was on September 1st last year. Those who remodel cars, those who import cars, will have the opportunity to import and recharge without the additional costs that have been imposed since January 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u126	Please turn on the microphone of the Holy People's Deputy. Dear colleagues, I see all hands. And then there's the Peaceable People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, by canceling the remodeling excise, we will give another hole for the smuggling of cars. It's a big hole, and the budget is losing a lot of money. As for the utilizational congregation. If there was a minister of finance, I asked you what the position of the Ministry of Finance is, because this congregation is provided from payment to the budget of 3.5 billion dollars. It's for Ukraine's budget. And secondly, if cancelled, it's not cancelled in the Russian Federation, there are unequal conditions. And there's going to be a lot of threats to our employees and Zaporozhye, Cremenczuk, Zakarpatt, etc. I propose to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u128	National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u129	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As one of the co-authors of the bill, I want to calm everyone down. This is a maximum of one and a half percent. Maybe less percent, it's just a few hundred cars that are remodeling. There's no budget threat, no threat. Let's, if we're going to roll the nut today on a huge budget article, let's show people that we hear them. Let us make it possible for people to feel both the concerns of the government and the Parliament for the people. I urge you to stop this discussion and vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u130	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please take your seats, calm down. Dear colleagues, once again, I can bet on the coming. First Law 3332 (author: Miroshnichenko Igor Mihajlovich). [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, colleagues, the author did not take the law, the author did not take it. Please, there is Igor Miroshnichenko, why you make a decision for him. I can bet. Your law goes first, can I put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u131	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I didn't film the bill, but we want to hear the government's position. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister. Our position was expressed by Alexander Mirny. Please let's hear the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u132	Please turn on Arsenius Petrovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u133	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! There are two blocks of questions. The first is that the introduction of a recycling congregation, in a mild sense, violates the rules of economic competition in the European market. That is why this congregation needs to be abolished. We understand the consequences that will come to us. I want to warn the members of Parliament immediately. This means that cars from the Russian Federation will get, these are cars of 1200,1300 cubic centimeters, they'll get an extra market here. I'm warning the consequences right now. But we realize that people are demanding the abolition of the utilization congregation, we're going to these things, and that's why we're supporting the Peacekeeping Bill. And we ask everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, may I make the law in the first reading? Dear colleagues, I say once again, you may vote by vote, you may not vote. What's the problem? We're not going to pass this law, we're going to vote second. Once again, I can't help but put the bill to the vote. Well, what are you talking about? Turn on the Labunski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much, and I very much ask the Freedom Party, and I understand that you have an election, so stop shaking the hall. 4238 had to be voted on, listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u136	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. I'm asking you, your honor, and I'm telling you again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm going to the hall, please calm down. Dear colleagues, you don't have to bend your stick. I want to say once again, there is a Rules, there are laws on coming. 3332 votes first. It's not 3332, we're going to vote 4238. What problems, I cannot understand, dear colleagues? Open the Rules and read them. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u137	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm asking the Ukrainian people's deputies to stop accusing us of freedom that we have elections in our heads. So we never had an election in our head, we were the political force that, during and after Maidan, never engaged in self-piarities, presidential elections or parliamentary elections. And I completely reject such accusations. I remind you that on September 30th of last year, the MPs from Freedom Miroshnichenko and Mirznýný registered this bill, so it has to go first. Period. You like to vote. I don't like it. You'll vote for someone else. And we can't be blamed right now. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u138	Please turn Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich's microphone on and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u139	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I especially appeal to those who hear us and especially to those who meet on the street. It is my responsibility to say that our position has always been that this illegal congregation must be abolished, that it must be voted down, and that it must be voted down. Surprisingly, we are prepared to support Freedom in this matter, but I would ask for Freedom, but I would ask Freedom to do whatever it takes for your so-called fighters to leave the Central Committee, and then we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! Thank you. They all came out who they wanted. I ask you, Your Honor, to sit down and we shall vote in favour of the law. I bet on the vote in the first reading or on the basis of Bill 3332 (author Igor Miroshnichenko). People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. I ask you to vote. [[20:13:44]] For 212 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: "Regions" – 3, "Fatherhood" – 80, "Klicka" – 19, "Economic development" – 29, "North European Ukraine" – 25, "Freedom" – 34, Company – 0, although promised, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I bet. In the first reading, please accept bill 4238 (author-sold). I'll take the first reading, I'll ask the hall, then I'll put, if there's no objection, in general. Let's not break the rules! Please support the law on the basis, please vote 4238. [[20:14:38]] For 247 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I ask you in the hall, can I put the law in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask the room to determine by vote, please vote. [[20:15:08]] For 214 The law is adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced admission procedure. Please support the simplified procedure for the adoption of this law. The law adopted on the basis is a very serious step. And I ask for a summary vote. By factions, please show me. Region Party 2, Fatherland 74, Impact 39, Economic Development 2, Sovereign European Ukraine 30, Freedom 34, Communist 0, non-factional 33. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my proposal and to vote in favour of the short-term adoption of this law. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[20:16:07]] For 240 Decision taken. Congratulations, dear fellows. So we have three blocks of questions left, dear colleagues. I hope we'll accept them very soon. The first block is related to the Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judicial System. I beg you, can we take the first reading without discussion? We can. In general, there is an offer? It's serious, it's a principled position. I understand that it's worked out, and more than that, there are two laws here: 4378 and 4378-1. There is a proposal of 4378: the author of Labunska Angelika Viktorovna. Yeah? [[B in m in s a l in]] Both Agafone and other co-authors. Well, I'm just writing it down. I'm reading what's in my report. Dear colleagues, it is an inspiration to vote in favour of restoring confidence in our judicial system. This is a very important question. No.4378 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! No.4378-1, right? It's just one. From the committee, please tell me. Deputies of the people of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are just two very important technical adjustments that we have not been able to work with the committee. We have already agreed on them by the working group, that since the date of this act, the elected delegates have ceased to be authorized to meet judges and a conference of judges, and that in paragraph 8, delegates to the meeting of judges are elected by the general courts, administrative courts, and household courts by one delegate from each court. And they cannot be delegates to be elected judges who hold administrative positions. Please accept these two rights as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u142	Leonid Aleksandrovitch, stand in the rostrum. I have a question. Is this the position of the committee to support No.4378-1?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u143	Yes, this is the position of the committee -- to take as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u144	No.4378-1, I understand. All right, good fellows. I'm asking you to put this question to a vote and take it as a basis for a total of No.4378-1. Vote please, Your Honor. No.4378-1 is based. And in general. [[20:18:52]] For 212 It didn't go as a whole. Then I ask you, in the first reading, to accept this law. By factions, please show me. 0, Party of Regions, 81, Fatherland, Strike 36, Economic Development 1, Sovereign European. - 28, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 32. Dear colleagues, I ask you in the first reading to support this law and under a reduced procedure to rework it. Please support this law in the first reading. Please vote. [[20:19:34]] For 211 Dear colleagues. Please turn on the microphone. The decision is not taken. 211 votes. The factions, please. Economic Development, 0, surprised me. 0 – Party of regions, 0 – Communists, 80 – Fatherland, 37 – SHOCK, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 30 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u145	Dear colleagues! I would like to focus on what Yemen said. Their group was working on two revisions. I have a request to put it to a vote, taking into account these two lines. They are very important. Because without these rights, this law is actually one that will not work. Therefore, the request to vote on the two rights that the German has just declared. The working group and the committee supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, I want to ask you in the head of the "Economic Choice" faction, right? Mr. Kinach's. Can we please turn on his microphone? Please. He conveys the word Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The point is that the bill is the main one that brought the government. He was sent to the Venice Commission for expertise. And the point is, right now, we want to vote on the bill without waiting for the Venice Commission to come to a conclusion. How much? Let me make a deal. As far as we know, experts from the Council of Europe have already drawn conclusions on this law. And it has to meet those standards, if we want to do this, those standards that are set in Europe. We must therefore await the conclusion of the Venice Commission. And according to their recommendations, it's to be done so that no one can accuse us of doing either corruption or anything else, or collecting accounts. So our group suggests that we await the conclusion of the Venice Commission. And if the Venice Commission finds out, we'll vote too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u148	I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the national deputy Yemeni from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that the working group has worked very closely with representatives and the Council of Europe commission. All their comments, which were submitted to the bill submitted by the government, were included in a bill submitted by a group of national MPs. Therefore, there is no other comment from the Council of Europe. They're all accounted for. Please. Society demands that we be updated and given confidence in the judiciary. We are simply obliged to accept this law today. And you will be responsible for that. Thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u150	Dear colleagues, I'm calling on the Economic Development Group. On the first reading, we accept this law. First reading. When the remarks are made, Anatoly Kirilovich, from the Venice Commission, we will certainly count them. Please. First reading. Please re-set Law 4378-1. Come back. Come on. Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. I'm asking you to come back to that question. Take it easy. Go back to that question. Let's vote, it's going to be a test vote. Please support me to return to making a decision on this matter. Please turn on the "Race" system, please vote. [[20:23:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask, with the rights that Leonid Alexanderovich Yemen has announced as a representative of the professional Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, taking into account these amendments, to accept this project in the first reading. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] With a reduced procedure, please prepare for second reading. Please vote. [[20:23:56]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'll repeat what we've accepted. We accepted the rights proclaimed by Leonid Jemetz, adopted Law 4378/1 as a basis, that is, in the first reading, with the task of preparing it as a reduced procedure. So, dear fellows, we have two remaining positions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now we're going to find, 0947 is our final point in today's fruitful work. Respectful colleagues, a very important question, and it is related to safety. And I think that now Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk is clearly focusing on the question very briefly. And we're also going to vote on this question, I hope, without discussion, because it's a question of the defense of our country. This is a guarantee for workers when they perform their mobilization duties. To keep people's wages and keep a permanent place of work. Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u151	Highly worthy colleagues, very brief. A bill that changes laws: mobilization, defense, and the Armed Forces. This law is needed today to increase our efforts in part - time mobilization. The Law passed three committees, and all three committees unanimously supported it. But I would like to express my gratitude to the People's Deputies of Morozenko and Rosenko, and I announce that their proposals have entered and I now declare them in the transcript. In the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service, article 39 is to be supplemented by new parts of the second and third parts of such content "by citizens of Ukraine who are engaged in military service for a special period of recruitment, but no more than one year is reserved for employment, office, average earnings at an enterprise, institution, organization regardless of subordination and forms of property. According to Ukrainian citizens who are engaged in military service during a special period of recruitment, the state registration of entrepreneurial activities of individuals of the enterprise does not stop." Article 2, after part two, adds a new part of the third, third, to the "retirementary pensioners and pensioners under this law, in the event of their being recruited for military service during a special period of recruitment to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, others established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine of formation and state special service, after the dismissal of these persons from their service, shall be recalculated, taking into account their additional service on the day of mobilization." Third. In the Labour Code, employees who are appointed to military service for a special period of recruitment are guaranteed employment and employment, the average wage. Please support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u152	There is still the author of the law, Oleg Lazko. Please, he's got 452.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u153	One more second. We are grateful to the National Deputies, Oleg Laska, Mrs. Labunski, for having prepared two laws at the same time, which are meaningful, and for entering into our Law 4500-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u154	Oleg Lazko supports Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk’s offer. Angelica Victorian, do you also support this proposal to vote 4500-1? Will you support me? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u155	Alexander Valentinovich, turn on the microphone, please. Well, if you want the procedure, yes, you did the procedure to go down. I refuse, yes. I had all the questions studied there.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u156	I'll lay down your law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u157	You don't have to. We must refuse the vote that has been announced. It's a very big question that solves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u158	So you support 4501, right? Dear colleagues, taking into account the importance of this matter, please, the chairman of the committee, Cibenko, Peter Stepanovic, would like to make a statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Social Policy and Work considered the three bills. We have determined that Bill 4500-1, one of the co-authors of which is Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, will take it as a basis. But, dear colleagues, a great request. There is a proposal to accept as a basis for preparing for second reading even in reduced mode. If you have to, in two or three days, you'll have to work and accept it on the second reading, because there's a bunch of comments from the committee. Most important. We support the changes to 119 articles of the Labour Code, which is absolutely correct. Well, at some point, there are moments that actually work against this document. For example, if you leave it in the 4500 - 1 bill, it turns out that at the time of mobilizing people who receive a military pension, pension payments are suspended. We can't let that happen. Hence, honourable colleagues, the request to accept this document in the first reading and the committee in the strictest terms is ready to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, serious remarks. I don't know, I'm surprised there's something stopping there, because I'm told that the profile committee is fully supported and there's no stopping. I'm asking the people's deputy Rosenka, he knows very well about social matters. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u161	I made this proposal to the committee yesterday, and now I'm making a completely normal compromise proposal. The position of the committee is virtually unanimous and unanimous. Peter Stepanovich has now made one proposal to the Committee to prevent the withdrawal of military pensions. We can now take that into account, as well as the proposals made by Mr. Kuzmuk, and, taking these proposals into account, vote both on the basis and on the whole. They're little amendments, they don't change the bill here, but they're very important. Therefore, there is no possibility and no time to wait for two more weeks to be worked out — the situation in the country. So there's an offer, taking into account what Kuzmuk and Peter Stepanovich Cibenko both sounded, we agreed on this on the committee yesterday. And to adopt this bill on both the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u162	Please turn on Alexander Kuzmuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u163	Dear colleagues, I read again, literally. "Retired from the ranks of military personnel and persons who receive pensions under this law, if they are called into military service during a special period of mobilization, their pensions, their pensions during such service shall not be suspended."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u164	All of it. Dear colleagues, I think we have answered the questions raised by the Committee on Social Policy: pensions will be preserved. And we've done it again for the stenographer. Please, Your Honor, that's why I'm asking you to support this law number 45001 on the basis and in general. Please vote against the proposals I have made. Please. Please vote. [[20:32:52]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party 18, Parenthood 72, Impact 35, Economic Development 31, Sovereign European Ukraine 30, 34 Freedom, Company 0, non-fractional 37. Please give me some information, some of the provocateurs want to storm the Council. Oleg was out there, trying to get some information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u165	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm addressing those who are now at the Supreme Council. If there are violent heads among you. This is Oleg Lazko, Ukrainian national deputy, who was with you all the time in Midan. I want to tell you, those who want to storm the Council now, you work for Putin, those who want to storm the Council. Putin's blue dream of no power in Ukraine, no supreme, no presidential election, no government, and then tanks in Kiev. So I call on those who are about to light the tires near the Supreme Council, who are going to storm it, and I'm going to ask you to stop and not allow the plans of the FSB and the plans of Russia to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. I understand your comments to the Council. Let's hold the presidential election, let's adopt laws that will allow the country to be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u166	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u167	Let us now allow Parliament, as the only legitimate authority in Ukraine, to take decisions to protect the country, to strengthen the defence, to hold presidential elections, and then there will be parliamentary parliamentary parliamentary elections. Now let the Council work. Stop! And I'm coming to you now, before I go out, don't take the council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, please, we need to adopt one more law. We don't pay attention to provocations and provocations that incite people to illegal, anti-constitutional and anti-Ukrainian actions. I ask, fellow Members, that we have remained with you in the Law (0947) to amend certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Information Act in the new edition and the Law on Information. The Ukrainian Public Information Act. Please, National MP Shevchenko from the procedure. We discussed it. We've even made a vote with you before, so let's do it. Mikola Tomenko, that's what I understand. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u169	Dear colleagues, there is an offer: To complete the consideration of this issue that we started yesterday. Once again, I just want to emphasize all the technical, legal things I've been saying. We add a new edition of the Cabinet of Ministers Act and we change article 48 to article 47. And here's a request for support. A request from the committee, a request from the public and a request from all those who are in pain for a democratic, open Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u170	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this. You remember, we just put the vote to the vote today. That is why I am now asking to vote on the second reading and in general on Bill No. 0947 as drafted by Mikola Tomenko. Please support the vote. Please vote. [[20:36:57]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one more question. There's an application for the approval of the Averchenk People's Deputies. Please support this decision. Please vote. The strike faction insists that we now make a decision. [[20:37:30]] For 218. The decision is not taken. I think we'll come back next time, because, I see, few people are voting on this statement right now. We're finishing the work of the Supreme Council. We made all the decisions we planned. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. Parliament will continue its work. Thank you. I ask the only, honourable colleagues, in connection with the provocations around Parliament: very cautiously. Now we're going to take a look at the situation. I'm asking that none of the deputies get hurt. And please, once again, knowing that sound is working on the street, please do not work on the Russian Federation, on the enemies of Ukraine, on those who are destabilizing the situation in Ukraine today, who are paying for such shares, to stop the provocations against parliament, the centre of legitimate power in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-27-m1.u171	Dear people at the Supreme Council! I, Oleg Lazko, am asking you to stop! And don't storm the Supreme Council! Everyone who is, what are the points, we decide, we solve, but today the country must be defended from aggression by the Russian Federation! Parliament has to work!
