ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. While the national MPs are preparing for registration, I am traditionally informing you that today we have the birthday of the national deputies: Rižankova Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, Cibenka Petra Stepanovič, Čumak Viktor Vasilovich. Please welcome them. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please use your watch and be in the session room at ten o'clock. Please turn on the "Council" system and run the registration. [[10:02:51]] There were 307 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, today the first session should be held by the Kiev City Council. This meeting will be chaired by our colleague Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko in accordance with current legislation. He wrote an application for a term of office. I recall that it is governed by article 81, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4, part one, of the Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies Act, paragraph one, and accordingly declares the formation of the powers of the People's Deputies. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal of Vitali Volodymyrovich for his appointment as deputy. I am voting on the proposal to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Vitalia Volodymyrovich Klicka. I ask the Supreme Council to vote. [[10:04:35]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 51, 38 – Regions, Impact – 23, 22 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, Freedom – 28, Company – 22, non-fractional – 41. We wish the fruitful work of Vitalia Volodymyrovich in this very responsible position. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that you and I should take a decision on the issues discussed in Parliament yesterday. And by agreement, we have to decide with you how to vote on them today. I ask that we begin our work by asking the national MPs to prepare themselves for the questions they discussed earlier. The first one has registration number 2469a, which is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Housing Association Act (to prevent violations of the rights of owners of apartments and non-residential premises). Please, dear fellows. Attention! Dear colleague Opanaschenko, I ask you not only to speak but also to vote. Help him get to the job so we can start voting. Please sit down. There is a proposal to support the adoption of this law as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, please make your decision on this matter by voting. 2469a based. Please vote. [[10:06:52]] For 244 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 54, Regions – 40, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 25, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 33, Company – 25, non-fractional – 41. Next question, dear colleagues. This is a draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine (to provide for an appeal and appeal against a court decision). Please, Your Honor, decide on the support of this law on the basis of the adoption of this law as a basis. 3263 is the registration number. Please identify yourself as the Supreme Council, on the basis of this. [[10:07:55]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. Has a registration number. The factions, please. 56 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 48, "The Strike" – 0.24 – "Economic Development", 27 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 30 – "Freedom", 25 – Company, 34 – non-fractional. Next question. Take your time, dear fellows. Next question is 2371 registration number. This is a bill amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on accounting and technical inventory. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself with regard to accepting this issue as a basis. Please vote. [[10:08:58]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, by factions, please show by factions. Parenthood – 58, something not all deputies vote, Party of Regions – 44, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 8, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, 33 – Freedom, 25 – CPU, non-fractional – 36. Dear colleagues, we need to determine how to get into the agenda of a few questions. It's four, three, sorry, bill. 4983, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 (for financial support to the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Natural Persons). Dear colleagues, the important issue is, you know, the problems that many bank investors face. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:10:18]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions. Parenthood – 65, Party of Regions – 38, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 17, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 32, The Company does not support investors – 0, non-fractional – 37. One more request. Dear colleagues, please, it's about bank investors. Well, we won't be putting any political ambitions ahead of our citizens' interests, with hundreds and thousands of our citizens. Please don't go back in the daytime. Please redefine the inclusion in the order of the day. Please vote. [[10:11:16]] For 242 Decision taken. I'm surprised. The factions, please. 69 - "Paternal Development" – 26, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 30, "Freedom" – 30, "Competitive 0, "non-factional" – 41. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Calm down! The next question is registration number 4985. This is a bill amending Ukraine's anti-terrorist laws. An important question. Let's now, fellow honourable Members, during this vote, see who in the Supreme Council is willing to fight terrorism, protect Ukraine from terrorism. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of our session. May I remind you, registration number 4985. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:12:38]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, not all deputies are ready to fight terrorism and defend our country. The factions, please. Parenthood is 69, regions are only ready to fight, impact is 0, economic development is 29, sovereign European Ukraine is 30, Freedom is 34, Company is 0, non-fractional is 27. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! We are now witnessing a disgraceful phenomenon when the mercantile, corporate interests prevent us from adopting a bill that needs a country that needs a measure to lead to peace! [[Applause]] I am a firm opponent in corporate mercantile political, Russian, momentary and conjunctural interests! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u3	People's deputy Heratchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the strike party promises you, including all former members of the Party of Regions, who today are wearing shirts to protect Ukraine, that we will vote in full for the dissolution of this parliament. The requirement today is to send this Parliament into political non-existence. And strike will do anything to meet the main requirement of the court, after Yanukovic's resignation, the resignation of this Parliament. But now we want to remind you what the agenda should be: creating a TSC to control the cost of the army and the possibilities, in fact, to do the same for Kiev in the European capital. Changes in the country will begin with the dissolution of parliament and changes in the capital of Ukraine. And we ask that our positions be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u5	Please, National Deputy Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u6	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Two processes must not be confused: the political process that takes place in the middle of the country and the process of fighting terrorists, with Russian invaders. We support the dissolution of parliament, but do not support the laws necessary to protect Ukrainian citizens to protect Ukrainian soldiers is support for Putin's annexation. And we need to understand that, at the same time as fundamental reforms, we need to preserve this country. And so Parliament has to resign, but for this to happen we need to vote on the Book of Illustration Act, the Anti-Terrorist Act, the extremism Act, today we don't have to be the accomplices of terrorists and extremists. Soldiers under Slovenian today will reveal your passive position – as is sabotage and betrayal. Therefore, all national security laws must be voted on and Parliament dissolved. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u7	National MP Lazko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Just before the Supreme Council, and more precisely, the Communist MPs and the misdemeanors of the Yanukovic gang did not vote in favour of the Terrorism Act. That's what it means. And strike, unfortunately, means that those who don't vote in favour of laws to increase the fight against terrorism, they cover terrorism, they're responsible for the killing of our soldiers, for the killing of Ukrainian citizens, for the crimes committed by terrorists in our country. Parliament, which does not support the fight against terrorism, a parliament that supports occupation, terrorism, aggression, does not have the right to exist. This is a disgrace! If you, the commies, if you are the unscathed Yanukovich gang, if you are your colleagues from "KNOCK" you don't support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u10	I think "hit" was wrong, and now he's going to vote in favour of the anti-terrorist laws. And those who deliberately do not support the fight against terrorism, regionals and communists, take parasites to the villas of the Supreme Council. Get out of here, Darmoids! Get out of here, Occupy manuals, collaborators, traitors! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, come on, National Deputy Sobolev, and I feel like we're going to try to get back to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u12	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, we have just failed to see the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, which is supported by all the powerful intelligence and the Ukrainian Government, which proposes to carry out an anti-terrorist operation the order of protection of the hostages, the order of protection of the people who have been in this territory, where an anti-terrorist operation is being carried out, the coordination of the efforts of the Armed Forces, the Security Service, the National Guard and other armed forces, the order of protection and redress for the harm suffered by the persons who are in this territory. In fact, if we don't go back to this question right now, it means one thing: those factions that didn't vote for it, they actually support terrorists in Ukraine anyway. We demand to return to the vote on this issue, because this is the protection of ordinary citizens, above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, there is a position to return from the performances of the national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've been giving it to a member of the impact squad. Colleagues, Irina Heratchenko spoke. I ask you, Your Honor, to return and support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Terrorism Act. Vote please, Your Honor. No.4985. Please vote. [[10:19:35]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 74, Party of Regions – 2, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 33, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 4827. This is a draft law amending article 2 of the Act on State Procurement on items of purchase, on which.????? The law. Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy Kyle asks before the vote. And the Kalts people's deputy also asks for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u14	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! These changes to the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement apply exclusively to our collective Ukraine. I have repeatedly stressed this from the rostrum and have heard the support of the hall. We have about 180 national MPs who are part of the interfractional association for Olympic Sports and Movement. I'm asking these 180 deputies to prepare one more MP to help our athletes conduct the meetings properly, to feed themselves, to buy a normal inventory. If we want to receive the highest achievements from them, let us help them and include this issue in the agenda, and we will continue to consider it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u15	Now. Dear colleagues, let us be clear on this question. The Kaltsov National MP also requests a minute out of this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Two months ago, we passed a new Act on State Procurement. The government, which is the author of this document, has assured us that it will significantly reduce abuse in this area, since it contains only 10 exceptions to the law instead of 44. Since the entry into force of the new law, only two months have passed, but it has already been amended by the list of exceptions. So we see a new initiative to secure another exception. That is, the frequency with which the number of exceptions to this law increases allows us to conclude that the following year such exceptions will be more than in the old law. Then the question is, why should we adopt a new normative act if we have the same attitude toward it as we did with the previous one? So I don't think we should change this law every month, excluding individual types of purchases. We therefore propose not to support the inclusion of Bill 4827 in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I ask you to turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Tomenka and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Friends, I am those who have not taken care of the problems of sports, asking that they do not confuse sin with the righteous. We've been in the Supreme Council for the last 10 years defining the parameters of what we've been doing for sport and the session hall (more than 300 votes) then voted, and we've taken the tender purchases out of 2 sports positions. The first position is when a team of Ukrainians is going to international competitions, how you're going to do a procurement tender, when we can find out by choice that one or another athlete is going to a competition, for example, a week later, or he doesn't get qualified. There's basically no tender, and the sports inventory for the competition, it's purchased exclusively by international companies, it's not possible to do that in principle, and it's been in operation for a lifetime, and the session hall has supported it. So there's Alexia's offer, and I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u19	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u20	There is a proposal from deputies who, in both the previous and the current vocations, have supported the legislative level of development of physical culture and sport. A proposal from members of the National Olympic Committee and the entire Ukrainian sport, which is not completely funded today, even though it would allow Ukraine to be represented in the international arena. And not to confuse oil and gas theft, not to confuse child and food theft, but to allow Ukrainian athletes to bear the flag of Ukraine in international competitions. Please include in the agenda, this is the position of the entire sports community and those deputies who are in pain for sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u21	Dear colleagues. Come on, one more word, please, Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the point is that today sports survives, barely survives, understand, funding instability, the problem of financing in addition to tender procedures threatens that Ukraine does not actually take part in international competitions. Sportsmen remain without participation at all! This saves real sport. Sports young, sports children, Olympic sports, and Paralympic sports I ask you to include in the agenda this extremely important bill for the sports community of Ukraine. Please support the sport of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u23	Oksana Sold from this issue. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u24	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! In fact, sports survive today. But today the boys we sent to the east of Ukraine, who are there today, are barely surviving. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are there today without means of protection? That's why the strike faction insists that the order of the day should now be set up by a decree to create an interim commission of inquiry to review how the funds that the entire Ukraine has collected by 5 bracelets are being used today by the Ministry of Defense. Only after we have voted with you for transparency in the use of human funds, after we have voted for a project that provides local self-government after the elections that have just taken place since the decommissioning of the Yanukovic regime, will the strike faction vote for all the projects that Ukraine needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Let's not lose the vote. I support the proposal for real control, strict parliamentary control over the use of the funds that go to the Armed Forces. And I am asking without discussion for the support of Project 4968 – the Supreme Council's Order on the Establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council on the use of funds counted by Ukrainian citizens to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the expenditure of the state budget aimed at the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces." No objections? I won't. Please support without discussion, without discussing the adoption of this decree as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[10:27:24]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues at Strike, let's not speculate. This decision was just still raw, because you put it without your head. So I ask you to choose the head of this commission that we have just voted with you at the first session of the commission. Please, Your Honor. There's an offer to return to terrorism. You see, now let's go back to terrorism and then vote for our athletes. We're back, dear colleagues, 4985 -- about the inclusion in the agenda. Please support 4985 for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:28:25]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question is 4827. We talked about it. This is a draft law amending article 2 of the Public Procurement Act. Please, Your Honor, decide to include this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:28:57]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The factions. Parenthood – 72, Regions – 3, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 19, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 29 – non-fractional. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u26	Thank you, respectable fans of the great sport. Thank you personally to every athlete who supports our sport. Who stood here on February 21st, the entire session hall applauded our Olympic champions who won the gold medals. Now I thank you and I want to ask you, and please tell your sports fans where you're going to rest? East? Whether you're going to Austria or you're going skiing Fischer or you're going to Tisa. Tell me, please, how can athletes train properly? I suggest. At the same time, we have one of the vice presidents of NOKu, the great Olympic champion, the ruler of many belts, who is now the mayor of Kiev. So we're going to be initiating the exclusion of him from the NEC because NEC supports this bill and you're blackmailing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u27	National MP Lazko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, since the third time, the Supreme Council has voted to include in the agenda a bill on the fight against terrorism. Mr. Vitaliy Kowalczuk, one of the leaders of the strike faction, asked me to come out and say why they didn't vote. The Strike faction, I'll tell you, don't complain about what I said. I'll tell you, the strike faction didn't vote twice in favour of this law because they were willing to vote for something else. Mr. Kowalczuk, you know, and every national MP, if this is about Ukrainian national security, if this is about Ukraine's territorial integrity, if this is about Ukrainian citizens' lives, the lives of Ukrainian soldiers are secondary. You have no right to put your personal ambitions ahead of the lives of Ukrainian people. It's not fair and it's irresponsible. A person's life is a priceless thing, a Ukrainian soldier's life is a priceless thing. And there can be no conditions when it comes to combating terrorism, protecting the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, let's calm down. Colleagues, let's calm down. Vitaly Kowalczuk, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the strike party faction is grateful to Mr. Lachka for proving once again to everyone that there has always been and will always be a position in the strike party. I want to say again that we don't trade. And we stressed that we should immediately put into the order of the day the question of the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission on how to use the funds that people are making to the army. And we are grateful to all of you for supporting us. In addition, the honourable Alexander Valentinovich, we suggest that we now have to consider both in the first reading and adopt a bill on combating terrorism as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no objection that we should now consider as a basis and as a whole the draft Law on Change to Combat Terrorism? Please, let's give Mr. Chumak two minutes to report and vote. Please, Mr. Chumak Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u32	Yesterday the committee considered and offered to accept as a whole!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u33	I mean, did the committee support acceptance as a whole? Dear colleagues, there is also a proposal on the basis of the entire draft Law 4985. Please, vote. Colleagues. Stop! Stop! I'm asking you to take a vote. The factions ask only for acceptance. Well, colleagues. Well, please. Please turn on the microphone of the Chumak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the committee at its meeting was considering a bill on the fight against terrorism, amending the Terrorism Act. The committee supported the incorporation of the law into the agenda, its consideration as a basis and as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u35	Please. Please, Your Honor, support the committee, let's vote now, and then I'll give you a chance to comment. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal without discussion to adopt as a basis and generally an important bill (registration number 4985) for amending Ukraine's anti-terrorist laws. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[10:34:49]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Regions – 1, Impact – 34, 30 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 34, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 36. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the second reading. Dear colleagues, please, one minute of the lineup is the National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u36	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, well, let's hang in there a little bit. If you are lazy about reading the Rules, listen to those who read it. We don't have the right to look at the sitting we've put into the agenda. So I don't rule out, the law cooks, it's included in the morning, it's possible to look at the evening. But you can't look at it right away. This is a gross violation of the Rules. For minor violations, you submit to the Attorney General’s Office to be held accountable. Well, why break the Rules on an equal footing? At 4: 00 a.m., we could take a quiet look. So let's do things by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u37	I would like to say, Mr. President, that for the Supreme Council, it is a priority to protect the lives of our citizens from terrorists. This is our priority, and it is these priorities that we will implement in our activities and our work. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. I can see a few more hands, and let's go to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u38	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I don't think Adam Martinyuk should be told about the law. Because even when Mr. Litwin escaped, Martinyuk passed the Retirement Act. So let's be honest. But from the point of view of the communists, the support of the Terrorism Act doesn't show just one thing that they are these terrorists. And they don't hide it anymore. And in general, from your point of view, revolution is an illegal phenomenon. But the people have made this revolution, and we, as the Supreme Council, as representatives of the people, will continue to support the people and we will do everything we can to protect them. And let's not mention the Rules because, as you have violated them, no one has violated them, and now everything is going properly according to the Rules in force, according to the people's will! Remember this because people will not forgive us! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u39	National Deputy Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u40	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." We were just listening to this Bellyberda, which was from the Communists here in the hall. And if we tell the guys who are there, under Slovenian, under Donetsk, under Lugansk, we can't afford to use all the power against terrorists, because some in Parliament think that this is not the Rules?Oh, my God! What will they say? They will take the machine gun and direct the gun to such literates who by the Rules cover their work directly to the aggressor, to the Russian Federation. So first, I'm going to remind the Communists in all the language law. A thousand amendments to the second reading. Without discussion, against the Rules, the Constitution was extended. The other one. I remind the communists and all the steaming vote. All the hooves lifted up and adopted the Law, which destroyed all the rights of citizens, on January 16 of this year. And the third. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, my Company Ban Act has been tabled, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u41	Please, People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u42	"HOCK," People's Chamberlain. As far as the Rules are concerned. Dear Mr. Head, I urge and our entire faction calls you, and so you are urged by the entire democratic majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us together not violate the Rules and Law and sign the Communist Party deputies of Ukraine into the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. There is no KPU faction in Parliament since the lava of this faction left Oxan Kaletnik. That is why I, as Ukraine’s national deputy, demand. Cancelling the decision on the existence of the Communist Party faction in Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not defaming the Rules, not violating the law and the Ukrainian Constitution is our requirement. The papers are already in court, the court will ban it, and now we have to make a political decision on this matter. And don't give them words until they create a new faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Philippeenko. Colleagues, let's talk about enough questions, let's move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u44	Vladimir Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. We supported the inclusion of this law in the order of the day and voted in favour of its adoption as a whole, but we want these laws to work, in fact, to really protect our soldiers. And to really protect those citizens who are in the area of anti-terrorist operations and who are already in inhumane conditions. And that's why we want the laws to really work and be written out, that's what's important. And I want to draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council, when the Legal Authority will work on this law, I ask that they pay attention to article 14 of this law, which stipulates that restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens. And as it relates to article 64 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that rights and freedoms of citizens cannot be restricted only under conditions of emergency or war. I'm asking that we write here, in the Legal Office, so literate that it doesn't affect citizens who are in the ATO territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u45	Thank you. I think in technical law, these nuances will be taken into account. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We are about to begin a block of issues related to the adoption of laws in the second reading. And we would like to look at the issues related to European standards -- this is the Metrology Act, the Standardization Act, and we would like to look at two issues at the end of this bloc, which are related to the security of our country. Please, Your Honor, support these issues in this order. And now I'm asking the people's deputies, Mr. Matvienkovy Sergey Anatoliyovich, to inform Parliament about the readiness of the project on metrology and metrology before the adoption of the second reading. Please, 4583.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u46	Dear President, distinguished members of the people! The draft Law on Metrology and Metrology (Registration No. 4583) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on 20 May 2014 is before you for second reading. The purpose of the bill is to harmonize legislation on metrology with documents. [[B in m in s a l in]] For those of you who don't understand, I move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u47	For those of you who don't understand, I'm going through.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u48	Colleagues, please, let's not ruin the adoption of a law that is very important to the country! Colleagues, we. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll make a note. Let's get ready. I think the next time, of course, the reporter will report in English. Please, please, colleagues, don't spoil it! The law is very important for European integration. It's very important! Please report briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u49	So 80 amendments were made to the bill. Of these amendments, 45 were taken into account. That's why I'm proposing to go through the bill. Those amendments that have been rejected, I suggest you take a look at the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next time, it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, please, let's go through the amendments. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're going to go through the amendments in Ukrainian. [[B in m in s a l in]] Later, please. Please, Your Honor, Amendment 2, People's Deputy Sold by Oksana Petrovna. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Correction. Correction included. Counted. Amendment 11. Oksana Petrovna, do you insist? Don't you insist on your amendments? I see. National MP Pisarenko, 16th Amendment. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 22nd Renovation Pisarenko. Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 25th Amendment. People's deputies insist? Don't insist. 27th. There's no insistence. 30th. There's no insistence on a national MP. 34th. Don't insist. 36th. Don't insist. 37th, too. 39th. Oksana Petrovna and 40 doesn't insist. Dear colleagues, let's cut back on time. Any MPs who insist on their amendments? I won't. I'm asking you to sit down and we'll make a decision. Please, colleagues, please sit down, we'll make a decision. Turn on the microphone for Alexander the Peacekeeper. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u51	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! You know the position "Freedom" on this issue. As we insisted on adopting this law, because this is the way to European and not just European and world markets. But, Alexander Valentinovich, there is now a conscious provocation. People who are not interested in adopting this law go to the rostrum and simply deliberately report the official document in Russian. It's either a slippery ruse and a desire to drive the Ukrainians into stasis, or a desire to overthrow this bill. Yes, we agreed as if the speeches could already be of any language, because the country is more important! That was one argument, but I'm sorry, you can report it in English. If a person has gone to the gray hair and does not know the language of the people who feed him, there is nothing to go to the rostrum and report the official documents. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I make a note of the committee and I ask all the committees, when it is difficult to report to the deputy, print the report and let them read the paper. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the head of the Budget Committee, Mr. Geller, to take the job. A very important question is metrology. I know how you feel about metrology. Please take your seat. Now we're going to adopt a very important law for the country. It's international standards, it's improving the standards of our manufacturers, it's the competitiveness of national producers in world markets. Please, Your Honor, support this law in its entirety. Please take your seats, colleagues, and support Law 4583 in second reading and in full. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[10:48:48]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, for the support of the national manufacturer. The next question, too, is the continuation of this topic. This is a question related to the Law, registration number 4585, on Standardization. Please, People's Deputy Vitaly Alexanderovich, briefly inform us of the readiness of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Investments prepared a comparative table for the second reading of the Bill on Standardization. In the first reading, the bill was adopted on May 20 of this year and with a short period of preparation for the second reading. The text adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading of the bill received 61 proposals and amendments, all of which were carefully worked, mainly in the process of establishing the function and authority of the national standardisation body. In addition, the amendments were of a legal and technical nature, all of them considered, 52 of them included, 9 amendments rejected. The committee at its meeting, on May 29, 2014, considered the bill and asked him to support it in a second reading, and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote on this important law? We can! Please, please sit in your place of work, Your Honor, please sit down, prepare for a very important vote, this is about the draft Standardization Act, and the transition to the world standards of our manufacturers, the opening of new markets for Ukrainian producers. This is very important to us. Dear colleagues, the 4585 draft of the Standardization Act, second reading and the whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:51:07]] For 274 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. I asked for a professional committee, and I support the proposal that we now discuss issues related to the security of our country as we take this inspiration to the Supreme Council on decision-making. This is question 0907 of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military service, social protection of military personnel, persons released from military service and their families. Please, Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill is designed to introduce new ways to provide housing for military personnel and their families, as well as for those who have already been released from military service to reserve or resign. The drafting of the bill also calls for the removal of individual disagreements in some Ukrainian legislative acts in part concerning the social protection of military personnel and their families, the retirement of such persons, and so on. In particular, it provides for the provision of military accommodations or dormitories for military personnel who are engaged in military service, under contract, or in military personnel and their families. Provision of housing for the permanent residence of military personnel who are engaged in military service or are employed by military personnel and by their families. The introduction and use of a savings system that provides for the personal accounts of military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations and law enforcement agencies of a special purpose, the State Special Service for the Transport of Money, which after the release of the listed persons from the military service should be used to build or acquire housing. Orders and conditions for payment to military personnel and their families, as well as military personnel released from military service to reserve or retirement, health, state cuts, or organizational arrangements, and members of their families of financial compensation for purchases, housing. The order of removal of persons released from military service into reserve or retirement is specified, members of their families who live with them, from their homes in military towns, with the provision of other living quarters. One of the tasks of the draft law is to renew the earlier cancellation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident by 10 per cent of the pension allowance for the first category and 5 per cent of the allowance for the second and third categories. A second reading of the bill included 140 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies. Of the proposals proposed, total is –130, partially included – 2, edited – 3, rejected – 3, not included – 2. The committee supported the bill and unanimously invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? None. Can we vote? We can.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u57	Alexander Valentinovich, I have another proposal and I would very much like to ask the chairman and the national deputies. Considering that on 6 May we adopted a decree on additional measures to strengthen the security and security of the state, where we entrusted the Cabinet of Ministers with real measures to ensure the housing of military personnel who have a service of at least five years, interest-rate housing loans, there is a request in the bill instead of 15 to put "not less than five years".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u58	Again, 15, 5 years -- what's this all about?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u59	By decree of the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers, we have entrusted the use of real measures to provide housing for military personnel who have serviced for at least five years of non-performing housing loans. The bill was 15 years old. And we suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u60	Colleagues, I would only ask that we also accept real things because we have them. Let's just so that the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't then make a commitment to the law, you know, so that we don't create a precedent, too, when a good law is committed. That's why, colleagues. Is there a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers on this matter? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please, come on. Please sit down and report to your workplace. Dear colleagues, let's identify ourselves. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please wait. I ask the government representative, is there a government representative who is willing to comment on this law? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u61	I understand, but the bill was put off schedule as it stood on schedule, and the representative would be, Minfin would be later, the University of Minnesota. And this bill, for your understanding, has been under consideration since 2008. And he's always been noticed. The government doesn't support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, well, we need to determine in any way from this bill. Colleagues, come on, we need to be clear. I'd like to ask that we really don't do tasks that the government won't be able to do. But the law is prepared for voting today. Please, colleagues, this is not a discussion. Please, colleagues, decide on the adoption of a second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain legislative acts on military service, the social protection of military personnel, persons released from military service and their families. Please, 0907. Colleagues, once again, I want to say that improving the law can lead to his promise. Do you understand? I just want you to understand what we're talking about right now. Please, National Deputy Sobolev on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u63	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Alexander Valentinovich, I wouldn't risk it anyway. Let's wait for the Minister of Finance or whoever represents the Ministry of Finance, because now we're going to stress, and then they're going to notice, and it's only going to be worse. Don't worry, we've discussed it, we've been through it, it'll be the minister of finance or whoever represents the government literally, there, in an hour, let them report and then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I support the proposal, we've discussed the issue, and let's postpone the decision to the appearance, to the appearance of a representative of the Ministry of Finance, and I will certainly give the faction a chance to ask the question and the Minfina, and to speak in support or, I think, to support this very issue. Please, Your Honor, accept this offer. Now, let's do it right now, this is a batch option, 4369. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for guarantees during a special period). It's only about a special period. Please, Victor Josephovich Razwadowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u65	The Honourable Chairman of the National People's Deputies of Ukraine, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 April 2014, reviewed the National Security Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 20 May 2014 on the basis and submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Draft Law No. 4369. The project is designed to raise social security in a special period. In particular, it is suggested that the duration of military service during a special period is included in the insurance system, in the work, in the work experience, and in the work of the public service on a multiple scale. It is also anticipated that payments will be made to members of the families of military personnel during a special period if it is not possible to obtain it by military personnel themselves. The project guarantees the right to social protection of members of military families in carrying out their constitutional duty by the military to protect Ukraine’s homeland, independence, and territorial integrity, as well as to encourage military personnel to carry out their service properly. The second reading of the bill included 10 proposals, of which 5 were taken into account in editorial terms, 4 were rejected. The implementation of this draft law, according to the author, does not require additional funding from the State budget of Ukraine. The bill is proposed to be put into effect on the day following its publication. Specialists from military formations and law enforcement agencies participated in the drafting of the bill for second reading. The secretariat of the Committee, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee positively appreciate the idea of the bill and share the position of the author of the legislative initiative on ensuring the proper level of social protection of military personnel and members of their families. In view of this, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a draft law with observations. One of them is that counting military service employees during a special period prior to their premium period would be in conflict with the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, according to which the period of employment after 1 January 2004 is calculated on a uniform basis. In addition, the calculation of the insurance period is linked to the payment of insurance contributions, which requires changes to a number of other laws. In view of the above, the committee agrees with this observation. Suggests in section 1, paragraph 1, and the draft law the word "before their retirement."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u67	To replace the words "before their service of years." With this amendment in mind, the committee proposes to support the draft law mentioned in the second reading and generally as a law. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote in favour of this bill? We can vote. Please sit in your workplace and support the draft Law in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, the registration number of the Law, I recall, 4369. Please decide how to vote. With the amendment, of course. Of course, with the amendment. [[11:03:35]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 66, 38 – Party of Regions, Impact – 21, 33 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, 32 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 36. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to a question that has a beautiful number 888. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. Please inform Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemiakina, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, of the readiness of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Bill 0888 proposed to you on amending some Ukrainian legislation (responsibility to evade civil protection during a special period). In preparing the bill, 14 suggestions were made to the committee for consideration in the second reading. So we didn't have any special differences and observations here. The position of the project remains relevant, I think is very relevant at present. What's proposed. It is proposed that the Criminal Code of Ukraine be supplemented by article 336 with article 1 in the text of the project, which provides for the introduction of criminal responsibility for refusing civil protection during a special period, and in the event of civil mobilization, irrespective of the state’s functioning regime, whether in peacetime or in a special period. The penalty is a penalty of 2 to 5 years of imprisonment. The committee's proposal to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Law in second reading and generally as the Law of Ukraine. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a willingness of the Supreme Council to uphold the law in second reading and in general? Yes. All taken into account by the committee, all amendments included, please sit Andriy Anatoliyevich in his place of work, and the national deputies prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts (registration number 0888). Please, in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:06:26]] For 207 Only 207 votes, no decision taken. 64 - Fatherland, 1 - regions, Vitalia Klicka - 25, 32 - Economic Development, 24 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 27. Dear colleagues! Let's still define the fate of this law, what is the proposal of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich? Please turn on the microphone of the Deputy Cosemékin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u71	Alexander Valentine's Day, I think that today, first of all, we have voted on the bill and the bill on the fight against terrorism, and this bill is also aimed at increasing responsibility today during a special period that may not be allowed by God, in Ukraine, will be introduced. If a person refuses, if he does not want to go where he is sent, he gets criminal responsibility for it, and that is the case today. So if they don't want a party of regions to vote for it, even though all their amendments are included there, that's their business. I think if there are no votes, I'll take the second one again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! I propose to support the committee's proposal for a second. Before the decision, let's have the people's deputy Matvienkov, please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u73	Matvienkov, faction of regions. Dear colleagues! What's this all about? When the bill was considered in the first reading, in the first version it provided for normal action that was determined by the emergency situation and we voted in the first reading for the ideology of the bill. We have the following proposal: Let us send him to the committee for further elaboration; let us return the original species to the one in which he was quoted on first reading. And we are ready to support this bill. Therefore, we now propose: let us re-read it for further elaboration into the committee, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u74	This coincides with the committee head’s proposal. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to uphold this law and send it back for a second reading. Please, Your Honor, 0888, please support the second reading again. Please vote. [[11:08:45]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, the next question is the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to increase the safety of road transport and the responsibility for infringements of road traffic rules. Please report to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u75	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! In general, 41 proposals were made to the committee from law enforcement entities, of which 13 proposals have been taken into account by the committee, 12 have been partially taken into account and 16 have been rejected. Many of the suggestions rejected by the committee were that they did not provide for the responsibility of officials responsible for the technical equipment, the operation of transportation equipment. The committee also did not support proposals that suggested a significant increase in sanctions as being excessive. This text in the table, which is given to the deputies, is fully in line with the State Road Agency, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Chief Legal Authority. The committee unanimously voted to adopt the bill without notice, to adopt it in the second reading and generally as a law. I also have a letter from Vitalia Jaremi, First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, asking to support this bill. It's written "supported by the Cabinet of Ministers."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, is there a need to follow the amendments? There's no need. As proposed by the committee, please, honourable colleagues, determine how to vote in support of the project registration number 3067 in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. In general, please. [[11:10:55]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 36 – "The Fatherland", 34 – "Freedom" – 0.28 – "Economic development", 27 – "North European Ukraine", 34 – "Freedom" – 0, "non-fractional" – 29. Dear colleagues, next question. The proposal is a committee and Government No.0896 to move to the next parliamentary week. I see that the Supreme Council does not object to this. And now we're having a review of the draft Act amending section III, paragraph 9, of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for energy exports to European member countries). The Energy Society.) Please, Vasjunik Igor Vasilovich. The registration number of the law, I recall, 2471a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending section III, paragraph 9, of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (registration number 2471a), which was adopted on the basis of the first reading. The bill proposes to cancel the payment of export duties when gas supplies are made to the member states of the Energy Community. For the second reading, amendments were proposed by national deputy Lukyanchuk concerning the exemption from the payment of export duties for the export of natural gas for customs territory of Ukraine to member states of the Energy Community only for operators whose statutory capital is more than 50 per cent owned by the State. The Committee at its meeting on 26.03.2014 considered the amendments and proposes to reject them because they contradict the Treaty establishing the Energy Community ratified by Ukraine on 15 December 2010. In accordance with this agreement, the expert duty on the supply of energy products from Ukraine to the countries of Europe is not applied to the countries of the European Union and we bring this legislation into line, in particular, in this part. In addition, the standard is vulnerable to the requirements of Ukraine’s Law on Protection of Economic Competition, to the creation of a separate entity for the management of adverse or discriminatory conditions of activity, compared with competitors. The bill is prepared for the second reading, which is prepared without notice by the directors of the legal and editorial departments of the Supreme Council. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and in whole. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? No questions asked. Can we vote on the project as proposed by the committee? We can. Dear colleagues, please. The registration number, I'll remind you, of this project (2471a). Draft Act amending section III, paragraph 9, of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Exporting Energy Transport to Member States of Energy Co-operation. Please, fellow believers, support the law in the second reading and in its entirety (2471a). Please vote. Please, colleagues. [[11:14:43]] About-223 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, it's not accepted, because we're walking in the ranks instead of working. I beg of you, Your Honor, let us sit in our seats and vote. Let's walk later, we have to do the charge in the morning. Please, Your Honor, return to this question. Please. Constantine Anatolyevich. Constantine Anatoliyovich, please vote, then please, Parliament, please return to this question, please vote. [[11:15:36]] For 260 Back, colleagues, there's the opportunity to vote, let's give discipline, but in factions and in the hall we'll support, no reminders. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to accept the whole Act 2471a, please vote. [[11:16:08]] For 254 Decision accepted. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The next question is registration number 0934, draft law amending Law 34, to article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity concerning the Proposal for a Special Authorized Authority. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Politics. Please, Alexandra Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u79	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I want to be heard carefully by those who have decided not to vote on it in the second reading. Dear colleagues, listen, please. Today there's a bill called "The Basic Principles of National Regulatory Policy," which is envisaged as the first anti-corruption filter. To prevent a government or local council from making a decision that is uncompetitive or that is in favor of a business activity. And I want to say to Mr. Voropayev. It's an active bill. And today, according to this bill, by the way, our government is violating, I'm paying attention to it, they're no longer looking at, for example, metallurgy issues without metallurgy, without chemicals! That's not allowed. First. And that's what these amendments are going to do. I'm asking for your attention. If, for example, urban documentation is being considered and they want to build a chemical combination near your house, you write your home notes when you look at these urban documents. Today you can't even find them. For there is no right to tell you, show that you have considered them; show them why you have rejected them. To this day, we only introduce clarification. What if we wrote, for example, as a bill of metallurgy is being considered, you wrote "against." And the government doesn't accept it, it just doesn't give you an answer that they don't support. We demand that you do not accept a regulatory act that affects only the subjects of the household, without giving you an answer or considering your suggestions. This is the only law in the Law on Fundamental Principles of State Regulatory Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, this isn't a discussion. This is a question that needs to be voted on in the second reading and in general. Is that a committee proposal, Alexander Volodymyr? Vote. Dear colleagues, please, as proposed by the committee. There's a note from the government. Please turn on the microphone to the government. And let me tell you that there's a note in the government. Alexander Volodymyr, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum. Alexander Volodymyrna, there's a note from the government, I'd like you to comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u81	Good day, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrna, fellow MP! Acting Minister Kachur, Minister of Economy Kachur Roman Pavlovich The Ministry of Economics generally has a position to support the bill. However, during the second reading of the Committees, substantial amendments were made that the Ministry of Economics and Government does not support. In particular, this is an agreement between the development plan for the regulatory act and the public organizations. In fact, this may block the process of considering these regulatory acts. The other one. This is the signing of the public consultation protocol directly by the COVA manager. It's also technically impossible to do that. So the request not to support this bill now in this form of revision or to support it in the way it was, was considered in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u82	Colleagues, here, really, objectively and without fanaticism to consider the matter. Because when we write down the law with social organizations, there's always one public organization that says it's not okay with it. And we're just going to block out the same raiders or anyone serious enough questions. I would ask, Alexander Volodymyrna, can we agree with the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u83	Let me give you an answer, but let the room make the decision. Please tell me if the Ministry of Economics decides on part of, for example, the evaluation activity. Do you feel that you need to meet an assessment association to address this issue? I think it is. I don't think so, and this is a European norm. The European Parliament will never make a decision in any country's life unless it agrees with a professional association. This is certain. It's different. Part of the plan. Today, for example, any ministry, it has a public council, Alexandre Valentinovich, it's completely covered by this bill because it's represented by public associations. And there's no way that if someone didn't agree to not take it out, there's another requirement that if I wrote against it, please give me an answer in the protocol why not. And then it's normal. And if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u84	I see. Please, I see there are the hands of the national MPs who require a moment's notice from this question. Please, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, Alexander Volodymyrna, in 2010 the company KNAUF wanted to build a plaster - card factory in the country. The villagers said that we do not need cars to pass us by and to block our work. And 360 jobs flew into a pipe. To be known, to be reasonable is one thing. I support the government in this case. If any community, public organization of beekeepers or fishermen, fishermen, and so on, no, and we will stop. Or beekeepers, and we'll stop the construction, it's not. So the government is right in this case. This amendment needs to be removed, and then everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u86	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski. Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u87	I'll give you an answer. Dear Mr. Suhi, I was with this KNAUPH in that area, and they fully agreed to build this bill. And they left the Ukraine market because we had a crisis and we stopped building. You have to talk to the communities, you can't talk to them through your knees, not your community, not your public organizations. That's not possible. It's their right, it's their territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u88	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, if we're saying that we're building a country in a new way with new approaches, we need to take into account both the opinion of public organizations and the opinion of labour groups. Alexander Valentinovich, I am addressing you as members of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, there was an unprecedented case where dozens of militias came into the masks and paralyzed the company (Cheridenko's driver worked for 20 years, made a successful enterprise) and wanted to replace the man who had ruined his time in the airline of Ukraine, failed to pay the wages. We have such examples. And at Antonov's factory, when they want to replace the leader of the Kivus and so on. We're seeing a situation with Kiev's Water Channel. We have to count with the minds of the labor groups. If the national authorities are concerned, they can count on the people, the labour groups, the public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u90	Please. Dear colleagues, please, I'll give you an opportunity, an important question, there is, you see, Positions. So, please, let's take some time to talk. National MP Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I ask your respectable Mr. Aleksandar Valentinović to place on record Amendment No. 2 of Ms. Kugel, which is considered by the Committee. Why? If you read this bill and the last column in table 4, you will see that the special regulatory authority conducts these public hearings, the head of that body shall produce a record of the results of the hearing and all regulatory acts, without exception, independent of its type, must be brought into line with this protocol. This is a specific thing in the hands of a particular person, not the public at the end. I request a vote on Amendment No.2.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u92	Colleagues! Colleagues, please, Alexandra Volodymyrna, we're not here for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u93	No! No! No! No!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u94	That's not the first thing we have to read. We have a second and this is the right of a national MP to make an amendment to the confirmation. Let me give you an opportunity, and then we'll vote for confirmation, and we'll make a decision out of this law. Now. Myrichenko is a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u95	Yura! Yura, you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. Because we are now essentially solving the issue, or we are allowing citizens to make decisions in the territory of our territorial communities, or we are excluding them from this process. Either we involve professional environments in solving issues in our field, or we don't. And that's why those mechanisms that Kugel is offering, they're protecting us from uncivilized opposition. When people do not have such legal tools, they go outside and are forced to block the activities of businesses outside the law. So I'm asking you to support this bill. And we're going to vote on our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u97	Please, National Deputy Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u98	Alexander Valentinovich, thank you very much. I'm going to support this law because the Southern Massive, the city of Dnepropetrovsk, the 100-meter meat-combination factory is working, and there's nothing to breathe. The Ministry changed the distance from 1,000 feet to 300 meters. There's nothing to breathe. You won't find the end. People get excited all the time, they cover the roads. Why would you do that? What's with the law if there's no people there? Thanks for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u100	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are moving towards change in the Constitution, towards decentralization, that is, the transfer of certain rights and powers to communities, we understand that this is how we form civil society. We need to get used to, let's say, and realize that public organizations should have the same right to influence decisions that are taking place. So it's an absolutely European norm to thank Mrs. Kugel for bringing it in, and we need to support it if we really want active decentralization, if we don't want to translate it into funding. Thank you for your attention, and I urge the hall to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u101	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u102	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is not surprising that the government opposes the control of public organizations, professional associations for its activities. I'm surprised by this position, it would seem, of a new and democratic government. Any authority that wants to be closed, our task, if we want to be a democratic society, there has to be control of public organizations, there has to be control of the community. For example. In Ivankov, Kyiv district, a torphobric factory was built, which burns the forest from the Chernobyl area, and all ministries granted permits, and the Ivankovsky region is to breathe through Chernobyl waste. In Winnice, in the stadium area, near 18th grade, without permission from the public, housing houses began to be built, taking away the opportunity for children to train at the stadium. So, of course, the public has to influence the decision-making process. Therefore, the bill must be supported. There must be transparency and nothing to hide from people!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u103	People's Deputy Sold. Dear colleagues, we will make our decision. Colleagues, well, we're already more than we're discussing in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u104	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I want to draw your attention to two things. First, the representative of the Ministry of Economics has just tried to mislead the entire Supreme Council, because there is no mandatory agreement on the decisions of the authorities with the public. The project agrees with the draft legislative activity and discusses with the protocol the position on public proposals. That's the first one. Secondly, this project provides real public control, if it wants to, according to decisions that will be taken by the authorities. Now, if we take this project with you right now, it's not going to be able to just close the door to any public proposal, but it's going to be forced to make decisions, to answer officially and formally to justify its position. The previous regime used to do that, they looked like they were discussing and ignoring. This law will not allow the public to be ignored. I invite everyone to vote in favour of this project and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I can still see your hands. Well, let's have the People's Deputy Golovko and be determined. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u106	Deputy Golovko, Poltavščina, faction of Fatherland. I support this progressive amendment by Alexandra Kugel, because today is an example of a violation of all building standards and environmental standards in Poltavska, Kobeljak region, the village of Bilika, the Bilkorm combination, and the investor is Russian investors. And it's built 400 meters away from the homes of these people. There's smell, there's pollution, there's no drinking water in the wells anymore, so I'm asking the whole room to support this progressive repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Let's make decisions, colleagues, I say again, I'll remind you this is completely unpredictable under the Rules thing, what I'm giving you the opportunity to do. But I feel that there is a need to speak up, colleagues, so let us not abuse. I've already given each faction an opportunity to tell the representative. Please, one minute, Alexander Kugel, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Thank you for confirming that after the course we have a new country. I thank you for understanding that there cannot be, Mr. Voropaev, no decision can be made if it touches the subject of the business without discussion and those subjects that work and those people who as consumers have the opportunity to get the result of this work. It's a closed government, we have to break the monopoly of politicians to make decisions. We're saying that if the authorities refuse it should answer why and it should be preserved as evidence of the actions of this authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Please, colleagues, I'm asking Alexander Volodymyrna to sit in her place of work. Alexander Volodymyrna, do you want to vote here? I beg you, let's talk about enough of this and now let's have a general vote before the proposal was made by the national MP Voropeyeva to confirm by voting Amendment 2. Please, dear fellows! Dear colleagues, according to the proposal of the national MP Voropeyeva, decide on the confirmation of amendment No. 2 of Alexander Kugel. Please vote. [[11:34:20]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 70 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 2.27 – "The Impact", 29 – "The Economic Development", 30 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 0 – "Freedom", The Company – 19.28 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Project 0934, of course, without amendment number 2. As regards the voting of this project, please be determined as a whole. Please vote. [[11:35:05]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. 73 – "The Fatherland", 45 – regions, "The Impact" – 26, 31 – "The Economic Development", 31 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 0 – "Freedom", 0 – non-fractional 33. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next question. We have 2403 in our agenda, but the committee asks to reconcile some other issues with the government and requests that this law be transposed for the next sessional week. Next question, colleagues, 0969, is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment of national commissions that regulate the national market for securities and the market for financial services. Please, Your Honor, National Deputy One Alexander Josephovich, ready to report? Not ready. I'm taking that question off the table. The next question, your honorary colleagues, is the registration number of 2013 and this is a draft law amending some of the investor rights legislation. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev will report this question on a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u110	Dear Head! Dear national deputies, guests invited! For your consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the Protection of Investors’ Rights (second reading) is being prepared for your second reading. It was filed by the Cabinet of Ukraine on September 17, 2013. The bill is subject to 128 comments and amendments, of which 76 are taken fully or editorially into account. You have a bill. The working group that drafted the bill included Deputy Prime Minister Maksut and a number of employees of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. The draft was fully agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers. He was unanimously supported by the Committee. I'm ready to talk about the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, as amended, let's go. There's a lot of rejected amendments, so I'll call them quick. I'm asking you, colleagues, to identify yourself by raising your hand. People's Deputy Tears insists on correction? No, it's not. Canoe, 2nd Amendment, insist? Don't insist. Yes. Glasses so I can see the hall. The Medes, the National MP, insist? Don't insist. Omelchenko, a national MP, does not insist. The miller, the national deputy, does not insist. Next. National MP Lapina, 9th Amendment, insists. Please turn on her microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u112	Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues! My amendments are all the following, and I will also insist that we support the concept of first reading of this law, in which the shareholder of the shareholders' association, who is suing the director or another person of the official society, in the interests of the society that is, by definition, the derivative of the lawsuit was a representative. Unfortunately, before the second reading, the procedural concept in the committee's proposals has been radically changed, and such a participant is no longer a representative, but he is a single challenger who has his own interests. That doesn't exactly match the content of the derivative. So what I'm trying to say right now is that I insist on all of my amendments in case they don't take into account the adoption of this law in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u113	Dear colleagues. The committee, please comment and we will be determined about the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u114	This issue was discussed separately at a meeting of the working group with the Cabinet of Ministers. By law, if the person is a representative of the plaintiff, i.e. the plaintiff, then all the powers, all the rights of the plaintiff. Some way to replace a representative, some way to appeal, just through the plaintiff, some way to file additional lawsuits, motions and so on. And it turns out that the appellant is a shareholder, or legal person, who is a subsidiary of the executive body to which he is suing. In order to escape from this dependence, the working group decided that the applicant must be the shareholder who appealed against the action of the official. However, so as not to be abused. All he will win in this court must go to the very society whose interests he represents is a separate norm in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the National MP insists on the amendment, I place it, and let the Hall determine its support. Please, the 9th amendment of the People's Deputy of Lapina, please ask the Supreme Council to determine on this matter, please vote. [[11:41:08]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Next question, the 11th amendment, the Omelchenko National MP does not insist. The miller does not insist. 14th Amendment, People's Deputy Lapina, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u116	And I'd like a word with you. Dear colleagues, in fact, it is an absolutely principled question, whose failure to resolve it brings us to a standstill. I want to remind you that in general the concept of derivative arose in Britain right from the moment the court said that the shareholder has a separate interest, namely, the shareholders' society, its interests, different from that of such a particular claimant, which is why he recognized the procedural involvement of such a shareholder as a representative. So this is another philosophy, if we're now putting this philosophy in a separate prosecutor, we're leading to the Russian experience that we have today, they actually have a derivative suit in the form of a separate plaintiff. And you know what the result is? And there are no precedents in principle to judge these derivatives. It's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u117	I got the offer. Please give me an answer. And we're going to make decisions about this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u118	If the plaintiff is, more specifically, the complainant, let's say, yes, in this case, he may be a representative of the plaintiff, or he may be the complainant himself. If this representative is not a challenger, then the question arises, the conflict, the mass of issues related to the relationship through society itself, where the director on whom the complaint is filed is directed. But there are other problems. This is in conformity with the Code of Conduct and the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code with the category of representative, which does not exist. What authority does he have? What can he do? What kind of applications can he make? What orders? Not at all. And there will be no conformity between these laws and this new law. This representative, it turns out, is becoming a hostage to the situation that we ourselves have created here. And if he is acting in the interests of society itself, then he has all the power to file applications, motions, consult documents, appoint experts and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine the Supreme Council for the support of Amendment No. 14 of the People's Deputies of Lapina. Please vote. [[11:44:07]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the following amendments are rejected. The Firemark National MP insists? Don't insist. National MP Voropayev, I understand, is not insisting on his amendment. Is National Deputy Corge insisting? Don't insist. Once again, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, there is also a vivid example of what constitutes a separate status as a single prosecutor. Such an applicant submits a separate application for admission. If there are three shareholders who want to speak tomorrow, each of them will be a standoff. As a result, such abuse, such as the artificially filed by one of the shareholders, then withdraws his claim separately and refuses to do so, while others do not. What will be the result. So the individual status of the plaintiff creates a lot of collegiates. And actually, there is a new philosophy in writing this new lawsuit that is derived from the system of our procedural right. As a single prosecutor he does not fit in as a new philosophy, he does not create anything new. It creates the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u121	Colleagues, I propose that we now determine the vote on support for the amendment. Well, please, one minute, subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u122	You know, when there might be one, two, three, at least twenty plaintiffs, they're all called accomplices. It's all regulated by a completely different law. This is the Code of Economic Procedure and the Code of Civil Procedure. If one shareholder made one, he's the plaintiff, then the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, no matter how many they filed, they're the accomplices, and they're all required, they're not the same, they're not the same, they'll learn their own. But everything they win will go away. Societies. If any of them have come out and withdrawn their claim, the claims of all others continue to be considered, it has long been settled in the CPC and the CPC as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u123	I've got the position. Please, colleagues, let's define the fate of 26 amendments to the Lupina People's Deputies. I'm betting on supporting this amendment. Please vote on the Supreme Council. [[11:46:58]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, next question. Amendment 29, Sold by Oksana Petrovna. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Omelchenko, the 31st amendment doesn't insist. Please Xenia Lapina, 34 revisions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u124	I'd like to pay attention to the fact that we're separate. We're not creating anything new then by this law, but we're simply consolidating the status of the plaintiff, which is today, and it's not actually allowing us to defend interests. Why such a reform was necessary. There's another problem: we're creating restrictions on the right to file a suit. And such restrictions are certain conditions that have arisen there or have failed, which, by the way, at the time of the filing of the suit cannot be ascertained at all. That is, it also limits the protection of investor rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u125	Please, Your Honor, let's be clear about supporting this amendment. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote on the 34th amendment of the People's Deputies of Lapina. Please vote. [[11:48:29]] For 114 The decision is not taken. Next amendment. Please turn on Kseniya Lipinium microphone. Correction number 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, since I understand everyone else is just not trying to figure it out right now, I don't want to delay the adoption of this law. I'm not going to insist on every single correction right now. I call on my colleagues not to vote in favour of this law in general. Because he: (a) distorts the philosophy of a derivative suit; (b) does not reach the goal of protecting the rights of investors. That doesn't match the concept that was in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I ask the Supreme Council to prepare for the vote. Please be seated in your post as a reporter. If you would like to invite the staff of the secretariat to the hall of our colleagues. Let's define the adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the draft Act 2013a of amendments to some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investors' rights. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself in support of this law in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:50:21]] For-123 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Fatherhood" – 8, Party of Regions – 43, 1 – "Vitaia Klitka klok UDA", party "KAD" – Sorry, "Economic Development" – 27, "North European Ukraine" – 24, "Freedom" – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, I am a representative of the Ministry of Finance. We're talking to you about Project 0907, which we discussed with you, listening to the reporter. I recall being reported by Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. And we agreed to listen to the Ministry of Finance before making a decision. We don't have much time left until the break. We can get out of this bill. Please include in the government's bed, the representative of Minfin, Deputy Finance Minister Matthewsuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, I ask that you pay attention to the following. The bill provides a number of new benefits, guarantees, and compensations. For example, with regard to the granting of loans for sanatorium treatment every year, the granting of various housing compensations, the increase in pensions, the payment of utility benefits and so on. The bill is estimated to require an additional 13.5 billion dollars, 915 million in 2014, 4.4 billion in 2015, 6.5 billion in 2016, and 17 - 1.7 billion dollars. No inflationary sources are defined. Moreover, the date on which this law became effective is from the day of its publication. There's no cost in the government budget. I ask, let's look at the financial part, and we'll only make decisions after we offer non-inflationary sources of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I see the national MPs have raised their hands, they want to speak out on this issue. I'd like to remind you, dear colleagues, that he's already been considered. And this question concerns the second reading, not discussing it in the first reading. Taking into account what the government has called 13 billion and so forth so that we can still find a way, not to make a decision, but to implement a decision. It's very important, dear colleagues. Because there are so many of us. Colleagues, the question of government is our question. And you can print money, and then all the citizens of Ukraine will become poorer, not richer, you know? So, on the other hand, we need to help our Armed Forces, our army, our National Guards, our strong structures, and so on. So I'm going to make the next proposal. Dear colleagues, so that we do not break this law, so that it will not be consecrated, I propose to support it for a second reading and to work it out with the government on issues that are possible to solve. And in matters that, let's say, don't have coverage today, either delay their implementation, or correct those positions that could have real security. Dear colleagues, I say again, let's not have any more patriotic competitions here. All patriots, all for the Armed Forces. That's why I'm putting a motion for a second reading vote. And together with the government, we're going to redraft this law in a reduced procedure so that we can adopt it in two weeks. Please support this proposal. Please vote. Please, colleagues, back up. [[11:54:43]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes left, let's give a few deputies a chance to make a statement and I'll call it a day. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u130	Vladimir Yavorowski, a respected colleague, please visit the Internet, find a c.net, and read the information. At Luhansk airport, we have to land our plane with our boys in order to bring the order to Lugansk. And when the guards who were started to ask the chief of the airport -- why are you doing this, he said -- it was Ephraim's instructions. You can imagine this bastard is sitting here with us right now.Oh, my God! You know, I'm talking to the Attorney General. You'd better get rid of him. Who is this Parliament where I sit?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u131	Colleagues, let me give my structure a mandate to check this information and report it. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Orotyuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's give the people's deputies to Ephraim, all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u132	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. I would like to remind the honourable Deputy Minister of Finance that we have a parliamentary-presidential republic and a government to listen to the parliamentary coalition. And the Parliamentary Coalition tells you. Mr. Vice Minister, look at me! You, instead of starting schemes, refinance banks, you support the Ukrainian army. Because for 20 years the army was down, and today the Ministry of Finance is acting as a sabotager. You think 40,000 homeless officers will fight for this state?Oh, my God! Do you think they'll fight for the bracelet for this state? We have allocated billions of dollars, and the Ministry of Finance is not directing them to the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. No change for the upgrade! No copies of the vest! It's called sabotage, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance! The coalition controls you, not you! All decisions to support the army must be maintained without reservation. Anyone who doesn't feed his army will feed someone else's is an axiom. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u133	Please, the reply was called the name of the national representative of Ephraim. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u134	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! You know, only in the sick imagination can people have the fantasies that our colleague had before. You can make an order, check it out. You've given these orders 10 times, ten times, you can't find what you don't have. And if people want to talk in tongues, let them be accountable to their constituents, that's how they follow their recommendations and orders, because they lie, they lie at every turn, and in fact they don't do anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u135	Guys, let's have two more shows and I'll call it a day. Please, National Deputy Lazko and National Deputy Bezbach. Colleagues, I'm giving everyone the opportunity to speak no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u136	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. 23 years of independence, our army has always been on the periphery of attention. The 23 years of independence of the army, the foreign forces of the other military forces that were supposed to protect the state, they did not get just to protect the state. That's why we don't have a real border today, which is why we have the Armed Forces in this state, unfortunately, that doesn't allow us to effectively protect the country. So today we live in conditions of undeclared war, and so today the main task, the main need of the day -- everything for the front -- is everything for victory. The people and the army must be the only ones today, and when the Cabinet of Ministers can't agree on a draft decree for the army to buy new complexes that, by the way, are manufactured in Donetsk, it's sabotage, during the Homeland War for it on the front. You want us to come over there and shoot the sabotagers, we'll do it. Today, soldiers sit in trenches for a thousand dollars of wages, wallets. Major gets 2,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u137	National MP Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u138	Thank you very much. Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you very much, we've had this in Parliament recently before the elections, "the main thing is to gloat, and don't even bloom." It's hard to understand what an insult one grandmother said, and we talk about it all over the country, and then, excuse me, there's not enough wisdom to apologize to a person. I can assure you that if someone makes a statement, let them probably have some responsibility, then we will have a universal understanding and a universal truce.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u139	Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I fully support the previous speaker on the correctness of the speeches from the Supreme Council's rostrum or from the Supreme Council. We should be responsible for what we say. Each of us here understands that during military action, we must react quickly and take all necessary measures. We don't have to compete here, who's the bigger patriot, who's smaller. But there are procedures. I want to remind you that if one or the other weapons is not tested by the State and are not accepted for arms, it is forbidden to purchase. If our boys, all of whom are so concerned, wear a vest that has not passed the test and be shot in that vest, please say who is to blame. So let's give professionals the opportunity to work professionally, but quickly. I agree that some procedures may need to be expedited. But this depends primarily on legislation. So let us look at the laws that are in force. We have no right to spend public funds on products that have not been tested by the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess to 12 hours 30 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't be late for the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Your attention is on the proposal for a draft Decree (registration number 4016a), which is distributed to you. The draft decree is made by a member of the High Council of Justice. a report by a member of the High Council of Justice, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Nenetziekki Oleg Igorović. I ask, Oleg Igorovich, then by this decree. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of judges Please report to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u143	Dear Russian Volodymyrovich! Dear national deputies, present! The Supreme Council of Justice, in accordance with article 126, part 5, paragraph 9, and article 131, of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100 and 109 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and concluded that a corresponding submission was made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the Supreme Council of Justice, judges have found the reality of the will, the foreign influence, or the coercion of the decision to release. Of the 125 judges, 57 were 65. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the following judges be dismissed: Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Harchenk Vasil Vasilovich; Judges of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Zarjek Anastasia Alexiyevna, Moskalenko Viktor Semenović, Przikov Evgen Volodymyrovich and Handurin Mikol Ivanovich; Judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters of Orlov Svetlana Alexandrovna; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Bondaryev Vladimir Kostinović, Kuntsov Vladimir Alexanderovich, Mesooedov Tetjan Mikolayevna, Nekles Viktor Ivanovich, Solovov Mikola Volodymyrovich and Filat Eugenia Volodymyrovna; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Guzola Pavel Petrovich; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Dnipropetrovka Alexandr Grigorovich, Kuzmenko Valentina Mihailnovna, Lisniak Viru Sergiyevna, Mikhail Svetlana, Mikhailovsky, I apologize, Svetlana Yuriovna, Turik Valentina Porfirovna, Chubukov Aleksija Petrovich; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Lupinov Ludmila Mikhailna. However, with regard to this person, according to the High Council of Justice, a member of the High Council of Justice, Romanyuk, carried out a review of the information provided in the advice of a member of the High Council of Justice of Kolisnicken on the existence of grounds for exemption for violating this judge's oath, with the conclusion that it is necessary to refer these materials to the Higher Qualificational Commission of Judges. The final decision of the High Council of Justice regarding the outcome of the review of this court, specifically for the violation of an oath, has not yet been adopted. Therefore, it is suggested that this judge be removed from the draft ruling, pending a review and a decision on whether there are grounds for acquittal for a violation of the judge’s oath. It is also proposed that the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir district of Prokopchuk Sergio Mikolaiovich be released on general grounds. Judges of the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv Region, Flisca Roman Josephovich and Shalaut Galina Ivanovna; Judges of the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region, Malorod Alexandr Ivanovich and Cherkasov Vladimir Mikolaiovich; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Kirovograd district, Mogil Oleg Pavlovich, Palík Andriy Alexiyyovich, Víktor Dmitrovitch, Savchenko Seraphim Onufriyevna and Chernish Tamar Volodymyrovna; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the District of Lviv Danko Volodymyr Vasilovich; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Odessa Region: Borisenka Petra Trohimovich, Melnichuka Valerija Alexandrovich; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Poltava District of Antonov Volodymyr Mikolayovich; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Lugova Mikol Grigorovitch; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Kharkiv Region: Averina Natalija Volodymyrovna, Bull's Larisa Petrovna, Brincev Anatolia Petrovich, Hook Valentine Vasilovna, Longev Yuria Dmitrovič, Kiselova Grigoria Stepanovich, Kramarenko Galina Petrovna, Lesika Sergio Mikolaiovich, Samson's Valentina Georgievna, Struk Ivan Fedorovich, Toustoluzandra Antonovna, Shevchenka Yuri Petrovich; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Dubchenk Anatolia Pavlovich; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Harchuk Viktor Mihajlovich; Judges of the Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region: Igor Viktorovich, Litvintsev Vladimir Mikhailovich, Munka Boris Pavlovich, Ohrimenka Ivanak Kirilovich, Skika Mikola Ivanovich; Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Chernovsky region, Alex Kostinović; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Chernigiv district Smogluk Raís Ivanovna; Judges of the Court of Appeal of Kiev: Valentina Ivanovna of Laskov However, Lascovsky's application to withdraw his application for retirement came in. And so I propose to remove Judge Laskovsky from the draft of this ruling. It is also proposed that the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev Poltavtsev, Galin Andriyevna, be released on general grounds; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol Alyeu Natala Galovna; Judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, Usnko Vasil Grigorovich; Judge Donetsk's Court of Appeal, Manjour Valentine Vasilovna; Judge of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal of Agriculture, Afanassiev Vladimir Viktorovich; Judge of the Pervomayan District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Zabar Galin Yakovna; Judge of the Court of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Morozov Ludmila Mikolayevna; Judge of the Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Perversev Galina Semenovna; Judge of the Railway District Court of Simferopol Gnussaryev Volodymyr Kostinović; Judge Mohilev-Podil of the District Court of Winnitsk, Romanov Petar Fedorovich, and Judge of the same court Sokolov Volodymyr Alexiyovich; Judge of the Apostolic District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Penzevo Mikhail Mikhailovich; Judge of the Vasilkov District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Usakowa Ninel Evgenyevna; Judge of the Nicolel District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Troyan Natalija Anatoliyevna; Judge of the Krasnogvardy District Court of Dnipropetrovské Leona Alexandra Jakovič; Judge of the Provincial District Court of Creature of the Horn of Dnipropetrova District of Valovov Valentina Grigorovna; Judge of Velionovosilkow District Court of the Donetsk Region Druk Petr Mikolaiovich; Judge of the Provincial City Court of the Donetsk Region of Copil Svetlana Eugene. However, according to the High Council of Justice, the judge was removed from office on the basis of a decision of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Ukraine. Regarding the judge, article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code criminalized a criminal case. The case is currently before the judge of the first instance, so it is proposed that the court be tried and sentenced to remove the judge’s name from the draft ruling, and that the osklp is the basis for his dismissal on another ground on the basis of the defendant’s conviction. It is also proposed that the judge of the Kirov City Court of Donetsk Region of Christopher Boris Alexandrovich be released on general grounds; Judge of the Krasnolyman City Court of the Donetsk Region of the Moroz Lina Ivanovna; Judge of the Selidiv City Court of the Donetsk Region of Jasin Alexander Volodymyrovich; Judge Torezsky City Court of the Donetsk district of Harkavenko Sergey Ivanovich and Judge of the same court Pushnov Aleksandra Alexiyovich; Judge of the Central City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Jorgendre Ivanovich; Judge of the Primorski District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Luzan Vladimir Vasilovich; Judge Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir Region of Hickek Mikol Grigorovitch; Judge of the Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye, Viedeniev Tetjan Grigorovna; Judge of the Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye District of Baranov Vladimir Igorvic; Judge of the Lenin District Court of Zaporozhye Dzizenko Lilyu Anatoliyevna; Judge of the Voddar District Court of Kyiv District, Yusik Mikhail Mikolaiovich; Judge of the Fastov Regional Court of Kiev Bartko Viktor Mikolaiovich; Judge of the Znamyan District Court of Kirovgrad District of Popov Natal Ivanovna; Judge of the Anthracite District Court of Luhansk district of Sknarin Nell Mikolayevna; Judge Lutugini District Court of Luhansk District, Kutishtewa Lidija Pavlovna; Judge of the First-Major City Court of the Luhansk district of Sádal Lilia Borisovna; Judge Kamyanka-Buzsky District Court of the Lviv Region of Gorosko Lydia Bogdanovna; Judge of the District Railway Court of Lviv Riginu Lubov Mihailnov; Judge of the First Regional Court of the Mikolai district of Gorbenko Svetlana Anatoliyevna; Judge of the Ship's District Court of Mikolayeva Batchenka Vejacheslav Grigorovich; Judges of the Central District Court of Mikolayeva Galaguzu Volodymyr Vasilovich, Selevanov Olen Aleksandrovna; Judge of the Killia District Court of the Odessa District of Boskov Mikola Ivanovich; Judge of the Suvorov District Court of Odessa Jurik Volodymyr Fedorovich; Judge of the Ravenna District Court of the Sápchuk District of Larissa Viacheslavna; Judge of the Mid-Bud District Court of the Suma District of Banchukov Vera Ivanovna; Judge of the District Court of Sumilian district of Seleznowa Valentina Ivanovna; Judge of the Provincial District Court of Harkov Grigoriev Alla Alexiyevna; Judge of the Moscow District Court of Harkov Jaremchuk Valeri Ivanovich; Judge of the Lysian District Court of the Czerka district of Zolototopy Alexander Ivanovich; Judge of the Umansk District Court of the Cherkas region of Marinchuk Mikhail Pavlovich; Judge of the Spolyan District Court of the Cherka district of Mishin Mikol Ivanovich; Judges of the Iron and Steel District Court of Hergeliziu Remus Fedorović, Martinyuk Anatolia Omelanovic; Judge of the Righteous District Court of Kiev Dubinina Vitali Ivanovich; Judge of the Obollonian District Court of Kiev Prudnik Oleg Anatoliyovich; Judge of the Holy District Court of Kiev Krivovíaz Andrija Petrovich; Judge of the Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol, Irina Arsentiyevna; Judges of the Gitomir District Administrative Court of Lithuania, Alexi Terentiyovich, Rakalovich Viktor Mikolaiovich; Judge of the Court of Agriculture of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sokolova Irina Alexandrovna; Judge of the Court of Commerce of Volinsk District, Cherniak Love of Alexandrovna; Judge of the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Bodilovska Maria Mikhailnovna; Judge of the Court of Commerce of Zakarpatsk, Kadar Josif Josifovich; Judge of the Lord's Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kruglov Olen Mikitovna; Judges of the Lord's Court of Lviv district of Gulika Grigori Stepanovich and Stansk Lukyan Lukjanović; Judge of the Court of Justice of the Suma district of Miropol, Sergey Alexiyovich; Judge of the Lord's Court of the Herson district of Yemlin's Zha Ivanovna;
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u144	Thank you, Oleg Igorovich. Dear National Deputies, who will have what suggestions? Please turn on the microphone. The national deputy of Yemen and the national deputy of Yavorowski, and the national deputy of Vlasenko, please excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u145	Thank you. The Yemeni People's Deputies, the Fatherland faction. Oleg Igorovich, I have a question for you here. We have a ruling solely with respect to article 126, paragraph 9, of the Constitution. Please tell me, why does the Council of Justice not raise the question of the resignation of those judges who have reached retirement age in the second part of this paragraph? So all these people have written their own application, and that we don't have judges who have worked up to their retirement age and have to retire? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u146	As I announced, there are 125 judges on the list. Part of my proposal was to remove judges in connection with either a personal claim or criminal or disciplinary conduct. Of those 125 judges, 57 were 65 years of age. In this list of 57 judges who were 65 years of age Here by Age and by Statement
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u147	Please turn on the microphone to the people's deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u148	Dear Oleg Igorovich, I want to say that obviously there are people on this list who have not yet lost their conscience and just after the events that have taken place, and after their actions they have resigned, and of course we will support them. I have a request for you, a very big request, you know, that the frontline passes sometimes in those events today, the fight for Ukraine, passes in this room and very brightly. I'm asking you very much, I don't want to, I understand that you can't speed up too much, but, well, make an effort by the entire Attorney General's Office to prove either guilt or innocence as quickly as possible, and if guilt is more likely to be eliminated, those people who sit in this room and fight Ukraine with all their might. I've named today one of the episodes and one of the leaders of the Party of Regions who, if you'll excuse me, are hurting today who won't let our planes crash. Please investigate more quickly, it's very important. The cleaner the Parliament, the faster it will be ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u149	Excuse me? I would like to inform you that, despite the fact that there are only three investigative departments in the state of the Attorney General’s Office that make up about 30 of the particularly important cases, there is now a pool of about 300 criminal conducts, and they are being investigated by such a small state. And even so, all criminal conduct is being investigated and is already being referred to a court involving judges, six judges, criminal conduct. They are also suspected and are being investigated by the rest of the judges, who are informed of their commission of the crime. And the Attorney General's office is operational, and we also have to work in quality mode so that we don't forget. Because after directing criminal charges to the courts, of course, the defendants will do all the protection they are allowed by law, and their advocates will do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u150	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u151	In fact, everything is done to ensure that those persons, in an inadequacy of trial, are not acquitted later in court and that they do not escape the criminal responsibility they have foreseen. In addition, I would like to remind you that the information that the Attorney General's Office checks is also provided by the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which have operational and search units under their jurisdiction, is not available to the prosecutor's office. So if we're given that information, it's definitely being investigated and it's being decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u152	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, Your Honor Oleg Igorovich! I have two proposals for a draft ruling, one is specific, and the other is general. As to the specific character of the High Council of Justice, there has been a statement regarding the release for violation of the oath of a judge, the judge of the Court of Appeal of Kiev of Poltava Galina Andriyvni, so I would like to ask her to be removed from this ruling. And as for the general proposal, it's the following, as you rightly pointed out, 57 judges filed a resignation application after they reached 65 years of age. They did so for one single reason in order to receive from the State Budget these crazy payments that are legally paid to the judges in retirement. So I have a proposal to remove all 57 who have reached retirement age, not to release them on the basis of article 9, paragraph 9. Whether or not article 126, part 5, paragraph 9, is based on article 126, part 5, paragraph 2, in connection with the achievement of the 65-year-old age, and let people retire rather than receive funds from the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u154	With regard to the first sentence, if there is such information as criminal conduct, it is certainly necessary to remove that name from the Law Project. Since this information was provided by the Supreme Council of Justice, it is evident that it has yet to come to the Supreme Council of Justice. So if there is such information, of course it is necessary to remove it so that the person is not released.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u155	Let's delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u156	on general grounds, or perhaps she will be released for committing a criminal offence. As for, again, regarding the reasons for my release, I reiterate that out of 125 judges, 57 were 65 years of age. As for those 65 years, there's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u157	I mean, if I may make a proposal from the People's Deputy Vlasenko. There is a proposal to remove 57 judges from the list. Please turn on Vlasenko's microphone again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u158	Remove Judge Poltavchenko. There is a proposal to delete them, since we have a ruling, paragraph 9 of the fifth article 126 provides the basis for exemption. From this resolve to remove them. Introducing a different draft decree to release them in accordance with article 126, section 5, paragraph 2, in connection with the achievement of 65 years of age, and let them rest on their pensions as normal pensioners on general grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u159	Liezy Igorovich, can you now present the session room with a list of 57 judges who were 65 years old?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u160	First of all, I want to remind you that there are two reasons, and the judge has the right to decide on what basis he wants to be released, i.e. there is a basis for his application and resignation, he's 65 years old. This is the right of the judge. This project was considered at the Higher Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice agreed, and as far as I know, the draft ruling was agreed upon by a profile committee. So I agree with the proposal to remove Judge Poltavcheveva from the list. And the rest of the decisions I propose to vote on, because I want to draw the attention of the people's deputies of the honourable Parliament to the fact that they haven't served justice in a few months, and the state pays them a salary. And if we're going to stall this process now, we're going to be able to carry the corresponding high costs from the budget. So I'd like to propose to Deputy Vlasenko the first sentence to take into account the rest of the decisions to vote on the proposals I've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u161	Please, National MP Mirny, Hermann and Vlasenko. Please. Peaceable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u162	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Oleg Igorovich, Reverend Ruslan Volodymyrovich! The question here is to save people's money. And the "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the proposal to remove judges who have reached 65 years of age but who have resigned, just under paragraph 9, delete. Then, separately under paragraph 2, simply send them in connection with reaching critical age. And that's exactly what we're going to do, save a lot of money. [[Applause]] For judges tend to live long, and give them, God, health, but not at the expense of simple pensioners. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u163	Please turn on the microphone to the National MP, Herman. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u164	Your Honor, the Attorney General! That question that Parliament is asking today, including Vlasenko, and the Freedom Party representatives, is quite right. We must stop the practice in Ukraine. When judges retire with huge benefits, when a country is poor when a country is in trouble in war and every penny is counted. Judges who have reached retirement age must be released on a general basis. We ask you, as a person who understands such things, to listen to this proposal from Parliament so that we can stop the practice of enormous benefits to judges who retire on applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u165	Let me make some adjustments. I'm reporting, not as Attorney General, but as a member of the High Council of Justice. I will report to you on the decision taken by the High Council of Justice. Parliament's issue is to make decisions in such a way or in such a way as to offer a national MP. But for that. I want to point out that we had to change the law first and then make a decision. However, once Parliament has made this decision, it will be so. But I want to make sure that I don't delete those judges so that they can make decisions and not delete them and not delay their consideration for the future, because again, they're going to have a salary and all the payments, as active judges, even though they don't do justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u166	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Vlasenko, Catherinechuk, Bogoslovak and Miroshnichenko, and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u167	Once again, I would like to draw the attention of a respected reporter to the fact that these are two different reasons provided for by law. There's no need to change the law. The Constitution provides two equally different reasons. At a time when the resignation of a judge is not accepted by the Supreme Council, and he has reached the age of 65, the Supreme Council has all the legitimate grounds, regardless of whether or not they are absent from the judge, to decide on another basis of his release. That is, the basis provided for in article 126, part 5, paragraph 2. There is no need to make any changes to the law. So I'm going to propose once again, either to remove 57 of this ruling, or to remove 57 of these 57, in the same order, to introduce another legal basis for exemption, namely, under article 126, section 5, paragraph 2, of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u168	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Catherine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u169	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter, you have rightly said that the judge, according to current legislation, has the right to choose or write an application or not to write that statement. Similarly, there is a right in Parliament to apply this draft decree. Deputy Vlasenko has already proposed three times not to overthrow this decision but to vote in the Hall today. You see the mood of the room. If possible, let's get this out of the voice and vote, if not, the "Paternity" faction won't support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u170	Will you answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u171	I absolutely do not deny the rights of the People's Deputy, and it is in the end that Parliament will determine. I mean, there's this proposal, let it vote normally, but once again, I'm stressing not to delete them and to refine them, but to make the final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u172	The People’s Deputy of God’s Word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u173	Dear colleagues. I want to make your point, the law allows a judge to be released on two grounds, it is his right to apply for his resignation, and it was the right of the High Council of Justice to take that decision. If we're trying to change this today, it's going to be a violation of the labour rights of the judges, they're going to sue them, and we're going to charge the budget again, because all the court decisions will be in favour of the judges here, because there's no other application for exemption. So, whether we should today, we understand what Mr. Vlasenko is doing, he wants to show all the judges that they need to see him as the new Portnova that comes out of his pants. That's not gonna happen. And breaking the law of the Supreme Council is not going to be mass either. So there are two ways out. Whether to turn it back to the High Council of Justice and then to the Committee, and call every judge, and ask him a question whether he agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u174	Let me finish, please. You guys finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u175	Let me finish, please. But such a voluntary decision, as we are now offered here in the hall, cannot be made by the hall. If we're supporters of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u176	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Miroshnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! The situation was very simple. All the judges have made statements. They were considered by the Supreme Council of Justice. And now we're either going to satisfy their resignation claims or we're not. I'm asking you to remind us that if we don't make this decision, the Ukrainian state will pay for the money. And making sure that we don't spend any more money on them resigning, we're going to keep keeping them. And it will preserve the duty of the state, and then compensate them. So I think that the decision of the High Council of Justice must be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u178	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Kirilenko John.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u179	Dear friends, there is a procedural proposal to do it properly. That is, do not put the reporter in an awkward position. He's saying it right, but I'm talking to the chairman. Mr. Kosulinski, put to the vote a proposal from the High Council of Justice. It's not coming through. And then there's a second proposal that the room votes for by an absolute majority. Because it's a question, second, of morals. There can be no such benefits in the state of the country! Put to the vote the first decision and then the second. Everything and the hall will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u180	Thank you. Please, Oleg Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u181	Well, if we put this decision to a vote, we have the only project, there's no alternative. If he is not voted on, he cannot be considered. If, according to the Rules, we can lay the groundwork, make a proposal later by Deputy Vlasenko, and finally make it. And then make a decision in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u182	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, National Deputy Martinyuk, Mirni, Yemen and Vlasenko, if he will, because they called him his last name. All of it. And then we're done. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u183	Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, what needs to be released is beyond question. Because they do not have the right to perform their duties but are in the ministry and receive, first, a salary, and second, no vacancy. No new ones can be assigned to them. I mean, they're beyond question. But. We have the right to act with you only under the Constitution and the law. We should vote on what the High Council of Justice is proposing. Because that's what they wrote. If we don't support it, and most likely we will, if we don't support this decision, then the High Council of Justice has to submit another project because they wrote these statements. If we write instead, there will not be one Wolf vs. Ukraine, which we are now looking at in the European Court of Justice, but there will be 125 Wolfs. That's why we're voting on this project. It's not coming through.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u184	National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u185	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to remind you, as the proposal at first sounded, that everyone had forgotten behind the screams. If there is no alternative to the room now, delete 57 names and make a separate decision. And, excuse me, if a decision is made in two weeks, we'll lose much less than we'll be paying for unearned money for years. Because all these judges, as we understand it, are not the first day, and what they have condemned for their lives is the God who judges them. But let's at least keep on getting them a fairer pension for years, not what they're about to get through paragraph 9. So we remove those names, we make a separate decision on them, and we vote on everyone else. This is the proposal of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u186	Please, the national deputy of Yemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u187	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the High Council of Justice, if these persons have actually reached the age of 65, was obliged 15 days before it reached this age to send them to the Supreme Council for release just after reaching this retirement age. Obliged. And in the event that they've reached that age, we're supposed to have at least two drafts today submitted by the High Council of Justice. Who wants to be sure, article 102 of the Law on the Statute of Judges clearly indicates that these judges should resign automatically. The application should be sent in 15 days before the Supreme Council. And with regard to the additional costs of government spending, for these judges, judicial action stops when they reach their 65-year-old age. Therefore, we are obliged to exclude from these judges’ rulings, to obtain from the High Council of Justice another application for their release.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u188	Thank you. People's MP Filipenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. The Economic Development Group will support any draft decision that has been discussed. But I would like to draw your attention, my honourable colleagues, to what the reporter, who is a member of the High Council of Justice, says that he is striving to change the grounds for his release. We're going to vote and free these judges and there's going to be new jobs, and we're not going to pay the salary. But without their will to change the grounds for the release of 56 people, I am convinced that there will be 56 lawsuits tomorrow, if they are not satisfied, they will come to the European Court of Human Rights. Count the average compensation awarded by the European Court of Justice, and we're going to make the wrong legal action now, that's 2-3 thousand euros. You multiply by 56, you translate it into a bracelet and you figure out if we're going to pay more in fact. So I'm asking you, when we make this decision, let's do as some deputies have suggested. Talk to those judges, if they want, they'll write a statement in a different way, but then no one will be able to charge our decision and show again that the Supreme Council has "played the stand." That's not right. We have to be professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u190	Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u191	Honorable national MPs, honourable colleagues, the law sets the age limit for a judge to be 65. Please tell me, what was the purpose of setting this standard? This means that after this age, a person does not have the right to hold the office of judge. Please tell me, what's the application for? What statement should be required in this regard? There is an age exceeded, that is the basis for retirement, for decision-making. In this regard, our faction proposes to support the rapporteur’s proposal, to adopt a draft ruling on the basis, to continue to vote on Vlasenko’s proposal, to those judges who have reached the retirement age defined by law to vote for another basis for their retirement. Let us in this order vote on the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u192	Thank you. People's MP Zuravsky, Vlasenko, and we're closing the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, there is one way the MPs can vote for, against, abstain. There's a bill for the release of judges prepared by the High Council of Justice. There are no others! Put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u194	Thank you. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u195	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Once again, I draw attention to what my colleagues have been talking about. At the age of 65, according to the law, and a colleague of Yemen quoted this, this is article 102 of the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. No statement by a judge should or should not be written, for the law really sets a time limit for his being in office. So today we have all the legal grounds or changes in how we have repeatedly voted in this room, in this draft decree, and in voting another legal basis for the release of 56 judges, or by voting on a basis, to exclude them in the next room and to vote this decision without them, by releasing the people who have applied for retirement without reaching retirement age. Today, it is about tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars that are paid to judges only once during the release of each individual. We've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our discussion of the draft decree. I'm voting on a draft ruling (registration number 4016) that takes into account the proposals for the removal of the names of the judges of the Court of Appeal of Kiev Laskovske Valentina Ivanovna, the Poltava Galina Andriyovna and the judge of the District District Court of Donetsk, Kopil's Svetlana Eugene. Right, Oleg Igorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u197	Lupinova, Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u198	One more time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u199	The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Lupinov Ludmila Michaelna There is disciplined conduct that has been disrupted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u200	I'm betting on voting for the exclusion of those four names that are named. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. Based on the base. [[13:15:13]] For 213 The decision is not approved. The offer to come back, I understand? I'll ask the camera, please tell the National MPs again, that the plenary meeting is still going through to get them to the session room. We make a clear statement on the basis. I ask the National Deputies to return to the issue of the approval of the decree (registration number 4016). Everyone please come into the session room. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[13:16:01]] For the 250. The decision has been made. Ladies and gentlemen, at the suggestion of removal, this is a return, I'm sorry. It was a comeback, now I'm putting to the vote draft Decree 4016 based on the exclusion of the four names that were listed. On the ground! On the ground! On the ground! Please vote. [[13:16:40]] For 247 The decision has been made. The factions, please. Parenthood – 55, Party of Regions -25, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 23, Economic Development – 32, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 34, Ukraine – 20, non-fractional – 29. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, now for your suggestions. People's MP Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, let's not remove them from the draft ruling, and these 56 names of judges, we'll just change the basis for their release -- in view of reaching the limit age of being a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u202	A Yemeni national MP, please have your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u203	Fellow dignitaries, article 102 of the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges, clearly stipulates that the release of a judge from office at an age would provide for a certain procedure. That is: The Supreme Council of Justice brings the application in connection with his release to the Supreme Council at 65 years of age. So there's an offer today to remove these judges, we have to wait for the High Council of Justice to apply. With regard to additional expenses, I would like to report that judges do not pay their wages when they reach the age of judicial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u204	Please, National MP Vlasenko has his hand, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u205	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I want to remind you that we have two categories of judges in this, more faithfully, three categories of judges in this decree. The first category of judges for which there is no dispute remain. There's a second category of judges who, both reporters and a number of deputies, have proposed to remove under any circumstances from the text of this decree. And the third group of judges is those who have reached the age of 65. So my proposal is: first, remove the ones on which the comments were made, remove them under any circumstances. And the 56 who have reached retirement age to make a different formulation, the basis for their release, namely, to be released on the basis of article 126, part 5, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, in connection with the achievement of the 65-year-old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u206	National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u207	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. For this minute, either we remove those names from the list, or the situation is going to be pathetic. Because it is clear that in general, such a decision will not be voted on. So it's the right thing to do, to remove these names from the list, to get or submit the High Council of Justice, or their own statements with a change of paragraph 9 to paragraph 2 and continue to vote. There is no problem, but it is clear that the Supreme Council cannot change the application of the High Council of Justice on its own. So please, what we can do is we can remove it -- it's our competence, let's take it in general without these names.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u208	Oleg Igorovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u209	If you allow it, just as the Supreme Council cannot voluntarily change the basis for the dismissal of a judge, the Supreme Council of Justice will not be able to change the submission until these judges have been dismissed by the judges themselves. So there's not going to be a statement of appeal to the judge, of course, that the High Council of Justice won't be able to change the grounds for submission, so I want to warn you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u210	Dear colleagues! Let's make a decision. There are, I understand a few options for events. First option, we can vote in general for removing these names, right? The second option is to stop the discussion now to assign the committee to prepare this issue with the Justice Council by next Thursday in order to remove all of these problems that we are now asking to remove from the vote. What choice do we take, first? The first option is to vote in favour of removing those names. Is that what I'm saying? For removing 56 last names. Is that what I'm saying? Oh, no? Well, turn on Vlasenko's microphone. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u211	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. There is a suggestion to remove from the list 56 judges who have reached the age of 65 and all the judges that the chairman spoke of. Reporter for which claims or criminal cases have been committed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u212	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u213	Four judges have no objection at all, and the draft has already been voted on as a basis. It was installed, so they've already been removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, can we vote for the removal of 56 judges who have reached retirement age? Please, Miroshnichenko, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, we just heard a statement from the High Council of Justice. After removing those names, we are actually leaving the situation hanging. The High Council of Justice is not going to consider this question, and so we're just not now. Let's leave this question to itself. Here's the second option that the Chief of the Supreme Council invited us to. We voted on the basis of this decree. Let's prepare all the arguments next week, study them, and then vote the whole decision, or go the way the deletion was discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u216	National deputy Yemen from the profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to remind you that article 102, the release of a judge from office at an age does not provide for the writing of an application. This is an automatic procedure that provides for the automatic consideration of these issues and the introduction of the High Council of Justice to the Supreme Council. Therefore, it is reasonable to suggest that judges who have reached retirement age, from this decision, be removed from the High Council of Justice and then voted in favour of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Žuravsky. It's been a long time since we've dealt with issues related to the dismissal of judges. The Supreme Council missed that question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u219	Alexander Valentinovich! So here's a draft decision. You're one of the authors. You and Kiwalov. There is a decision of the High Council of Justice. Two options for events. First. Put this project to the vote without being deleted. And the second. You can't go through with this. You can start a project by removing your last names. All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote now, and we are voting in favour of this project as a whole, with the exception of 56 judges who have reached retirement age. Do you understand the offer? Got it. The Supreme Council would like to decide on the support of the draft ruling as a whole, taking into account the sound proposal. Please vote. [[13:24:46]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm making a proposal that the Judicial Committee should work with the High Council on Justice on this project, and that's when we adopted it for the next sessional week. Thank you, Oleg Igorovich. Dear colleagues, next question. the question of continuing to work on drafts in the second reading. If I'm not mistaken, we're now looking at Project No.0940 of the Law on Amendments to the Advertising Act (as regards compliance with the European Convention on Transboundary Television). Please, Olena Kondratjuk has the desire to report this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u221	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that this bill was approved in the first reading together with the Supreme Council's decision to ratify the European Convention on Transboundary Television as early as 2008. During this time, European countries have made a number of important decisions, allowing the media, and above all electronic ones, to work more flexibly with television advertising and modernize legislation by adopting the Audiovisual Media Directive. I am convinced that European MPs are no less than you and I respect the television viewers who are their constituents. But they are well aware that only strong, economically strong media will guarantee freedom of speech and competitiveness with other countries. That's why the committee wants everyone to vote in favour of this law, because without worrying about the economic development of Ukrainian media, we can only blame ourselves for not having Ukrainian products. By the way, in Russia, I am strengthening the information product that we're dealing with, the language and television conditions that are better than in Ukraine. Today, we can take the first step toward correcting this shameful situation. I will note that when preparing the project for second reading, members of the committee came out of confidence that the signing of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement was inevitable and that they were actively using the approaches contained in both the European Convention on Transboundary Television and the Audiovisual Services Directive. The main thing is that TV commercials will become shorter and the effectiveness of advertising will increase. With regard to the preparation of the draft for the second reading, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information had eight amendments to the committee's draft terms, two amendments had been rejected and the rest had been taken into account. In accordance with the Committee's decision, at its meeting on 20 November 2013, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act No. 0940 was recommended to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, can we vote as a whole in the committee? We can vote. Thank you, Helen Constantine, please sit down. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm taking a break, do you feel? I'm getting ready to vote. We can't get ready, we can get ready. To do that, it takes three times, please, to announce three times in the towers that we are starting to vote, and all the deputies need to come to the session room, even those who work in the buffet. Please make an announcement. And let's do it so that we can make a decision right now. Dear colleagues, I remind you, please sit down, colleagues, please sit in your seats, reminding you that we are now considering Project 0940, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act to comply with the European Convention on Cross-border Television. And now there's an offer to support in the second reading and in general, the whole of Alexander Volodymyr, please. I ask you, Your Honor, to decide how to vote in favour of this bill as a whole, please vote. Comrade Derivyanko, faster. [[13:29:54]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Not everyone from the buffet came up. Dear colleagues, what will be the proposal from the committee? Turn on the microphone of the Filippenka MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Economic Development Group wants to explain its position for those who are watching us on TV right now and for those who are listening on the radio. I'll give you one argument why we didn't support this bill. Because it's almost doubling the frequency of the commercials for movies and shows. I want whoever voted in favour of this law, which is well-called and good-purpose, to come home and then explain to their children why the film is now going to be going not for an hour and a half, but for three. Why don't you take a break now, when the 95th quarter shows up, there'll be a 20-minute commercial. I think that's enough. And we will not uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u224	Dear colleagues! We needed to find out more about the first reading. But in view of the fact that many here want to support this law, let us give the experts a little opportunity to comment on this. Please, Olena Condratuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u225	Alexander Valentinovich, well, we should not be misled, Reverend Vladimir Filipenko. Because actually advertising blocks are getting smaller, efficiency is increasing. Because we have to have competitive television compared to Russian and compared to European. If we continue to engage in such populism when you have not read the law, you may not vote. Then explain to the electorate what we need a competitive national product for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u226	Please, the People's Deputy. Turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u227	I want to say that this law word for word repeats the European Convention on Cross-border Speech, which Ukraine has ratified and signed. We live in open space today. We have satellite channels, we have foreign channels. We're just joining European standards in European rules. This law will be useful because it limits the number of commercials on the air, it limits the number of TV stores on the air. You don't have to deceive anyone, you don't have to invent anything. It is useful both for Ukrainians and for all the European channels that are present in Ukraine and for supporting the Ukrainian producer to broadcast in cable networks of other countries, which is now in the context of the information war for us. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u228	Please turn on the microphone of national deputy Heratchenko Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's an MP in this session room who would oppose European integration. But first of all, it's an improvement in our legislation. And this is the law that meets European standards. If you look closely at the tables, you will see that we are leading our advertising space to the requirements and standards of the European Union, the neighbouring countries – Poland, other EU countries. And, really, when we expect more production from our channels today, we need to ask ourselves, what account is there for television channels to produce this product? Not at the expense of jeans, but at the expense of advertising. And we have to create a transparent, normal environment for them to produce a national product. And so we ask you not really to see underwater currents here, but to help the profession, in this case, the television industry, to create more national products so that Russian TV shows can disappear from there, but so that our channels can record their products at the expense of advertising. That's true. Which taxes are paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u230	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, I don't want to be an expert. The real experts spoke to me, I agree with both Mr. Princely and Irina Heratschenko, that we should look at a comparative table as a consumer. And this is how I can compare the channels of different countries, including European countries and our country. Well, there's no such thing as 15 to 18 minutes in one block of advertising. Let's ask our people, our citizens, they're satisfied with it -- no. What is the purpose of this bill? Including to reduce the volume of advertising within an hour. Listen to your electorate, ask them, it makes everyone sick. And that's right, Princey says about all these marathons and TV stores. I don't even think it's cheating. And the less there's going to be all of this fraud stuff and fraud gear, the better. A bill of a European species must be voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, let me give you one last chance to speak to the lead expert and TV advertising expert, Mikola Rudzkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all Ukrainian citizens suffer from the abuse of television television over our viewers: the promotion of vodka, beer, fornication, aggression – and all of this is thrown into the minds of Ukrainian citizens. I think we need to take it seriously to change the whole of advertising legislation. In fact, to reduce the blocks to no more than 2 minutes. This is the first time. And secondly, at the most rated time, there is no need to upload Ukrainian citizens' consciousness with unnecessary agitation, propaganda and advertising. I ask you to uphold this law, which will make certain restrictions. But I'm also addressing you, so give the task of a profile committee to seriously prepare a law that will limit advertising and the pressure on consciousness.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u234	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that most of the speakers and national MP Miroshnichenko support this, demand that they return, yes or no, to this law? Now, let's, let's go back to this question and figure it out again. Please support the proposal of the National Deputies to return to this issue, to this law. Please support me. [[13:36:42]] For 232 Let us now make a decision to support this law as a whole. May I remind you, registration number 0940. Please vote. [[13:37:03]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. "Paternal Development" – 63, 44 – Party of Regions, now I see an arm, "SHOOT" – 28, 15 – "Economic Development", 27 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 32, 0 – Company – 20 – non-fractional. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u235	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, I welcome all media oligarchs, they've received this bill, indeed, Ukraine is approaching Europe and the Transborder Speech Agreement, which is ratified by our country, is now more comprehensive. But I want to say that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union voted in advance for this bill. We really want all the media owners to start gradually defending the interests of the Ukrainians and not only earning money in advertising, but also, indeed, making it work so that there are fewer harmful habits, less alcohol, less tobacco and less that destroy the Ukrainian nation. In addition, it is a very big request that investment in the funds that will be made in advertising be a national product rather than a Russian product, a second - class product that conveys and imposes on Ukrainians the ideology of Eastern Russia. And then our television will correspond to the essence of Ukrainian and national interests. Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u236	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by a national deputy, Eden, who explained that he worked with the electorate when it was necessary to consider the issue, and now he is asking to return to him – 0969. Let me remind you, this is a project. Please, Alexander Josephovich, report to him. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the appointment of national commissions that regulate the market in securities and financial services markets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u237	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The bill is essentially technical to reconcile certain laws with the new names of two financial regulators: the National Securities Commission and the National Commission's Stock Market, which regulates the state's financial services markets. These names were introduced in 2011 and the corresponding changes to various laws were already made, but some of the provisions remained unregulated. The bill had already been sent to the second reading in the past. And our task was to verify the relevance of the bill, to clarify it and to reconcile it with the changes in legislation that have been adopted and become effective in recent times. The reference to this is all in the table. There are also some technical improvements and harmonizations in some of the laws on regulation of financial markets that have been drafted for the second reading. Thus, the second reading received ten amendments from the national deputies, and they were all taken into account. In view of the financial and banking committee’s presentation, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law on second reading and adoption as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, it's a technical question. I understand that as a committee editor, we can now adopt the law as a whole. No objections? There's no objection. Please put to the vote and decide on the adoption of the entire Law 0969 by the honourable members of the people. Please vote. [[13:41:08]] For 208 Dear colleagues, 208 national deputies voted. The decision is not taken. No one has any objection to this law? Is there a denial? I won't. The factions, please. 52 – "Paternal", note, The Party of Regions – 31, 23 – "BACK", 26 – "Economic. I couldn't read it. 23 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, 26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional 19. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Invite the deputies to the Chamber. Colleagues. Dear colleagues, you want to take a break early, that's not fair. I suggest now let's try to get back to that question. Just mobilize. Get on the green key, it'll just come out normal. Please, Your Honor, technical question. We support the profile committee, no problem. Please return to this question. Vote please, Your Honor. Let's take an inspirational morning session. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:42:28]] For 221 Better, just 221. The decision is not taken. But it's a better result. Did you notice? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm looking at that coming up and coming to the Chamber, colleagues, come on, come on. Mikola. You weren't there and you couldn't make a decision. From the dining room? It's early. It's too early. Please, the national deputy of Mosheński has just come to vote in favour of this law. Please take your seats. Colleagues, please return to this question. Everybody ready to go back? Ready. Let's try it. Mobilize, come on, dear fellows. Communists, let's vote, not talk. Please, please. [[13:43:26]] For 236 Decision taken. We can if we want. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a break, and then let's take a break. Oh, no? Aren't we taking a break? We work all the time. Let's make a decision and figure it out. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Law 0969 as a whole. Please. [[13:44:03]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich is asking that we do not disperse, dear colleagues, so that we can adopt this law at lunchtime. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Education on the Organisation of Inclusive Education, a Very Important Issue, Colleagues of Respect, 2878. Let's not break up. We'll make our decisions now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there were parliamentary hearings about the education of children with disabilities. And this law has been asked to support participants in parliamentary hearings; it opens up opportunities for children with special needs in preschool. It guarantees children with special needs who are taught in educational institutions also access to the hot food they have only when they attend special schools. He also introduces a teacher’s assistant, which is extremely important for inclusive classes. We ask very much for the support of this bill. I report that 9 amendments to these 9 amendments were rejected only 2, one of the reasons for 116 articles of the Rules when we cannot change articles that were not voted on in the first reading and the second was rejected, because it is actually extended, taken into account in the content of the editorial to the second reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! There's a need for support, do you feel that way or not? Let's vote in the committee's office right now, no objections? There's no objection, we'll support the children -- it's very important. Please, Your Honor, Bill (registration number 2878). On amending some educational legislation on the organization of inclusive learning in second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, back up, please vote. [[13:46:33]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next question, Your Honor, are we in time to consider? Let's go, let's go. Draft Act amending the Law on State Land cadastre on the Cancellation of Payments for Information and Changes to the State Land cadastre. Please, from the P.O. Committee, National Deputy Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u241	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to tell you that this bill is meant to be removed, the cancellation of the salaries of our landowners for entering the State Land cadastre of information for which, in fact, the State is required to bring them into its cadastre for free. For example, according to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 2012, the fee amounted to 65 bracelets for registration, 161 bracelets for land use restrictions, and 60 bracelets for incorporation into the State Land Inventory of Information and Land Change. Just 286 bucks. This is not taking into account the production of appropriate documentation by the earth’s structure and the campaigns that people are taking, and their journeys to the center and to the district center. So, in fact, it turns out that the farmer, at his own expense, not only forms the base of the State Land cadastre, but also pays to bring such data to the State Land cadastre. Two amendments to this bill have been made, and both have been taken into account. On February 25, the committee considered the draft bill prepared for the second reading at its meeting, and the results of its consideration unanimously suggested recommending that the Supreme Council accept it on second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? No questions asked. Is there a desire to uphold the law? Yes. Come on, fellows of honor. There is a proposal to support the committee and vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general. Let me remind you, we're talking about the Law (Registration No. 3061) amending the Law on State Land cadastre (as regards the cancellation of payment for the submission of information to the State Land cadastre and changes to it). Parliament is requested to decide on this issue. Please vote. In general, please. [[13:49:18]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. You see how many important laws we passed with you today. The next question, dear colleagues, are we in time to consider? We're on our way. Agrarians are also involved in the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to determine the composition, content and order of the documentation with the land administration. Please continue to report to Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u243	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Maybe we'll pass on this bill, because here are 232 revisions of the rejected, 279 amendments counted, only 511 amendments. But once I'm here, we can get started. Before I start, I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u244	I'm sorry. Grigory Mikolaiovich, is inspired by the committee's members to vote, don't you mind? Thank you. Don't I vote? Do we vote? Let's take a question. When? Next parliamentary week. No objections? Let's support it. Colleagues, and in view of the fact that this issue relates to the national treasure of Ukraine, this is the land, there is a proposal now for a recess to support the proposal of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to consider parliamentary hearings dedicated to our Cobzar – Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u245	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, this is a very short question, but since there are a lot of humanitarian matters involved in the celebration of the 200th anniversary of Shevchenk, it is up to the committee and the public to support him. This is a project of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. All the positions that were made on March 5th during parliamentary hearings are taken into account -- literally everything that was said here is counted. So the offer is to support, but with one amendment that the Ministry of Culture insists on. I ask you to add it to the transcript and vote on this amendment. The Committee on Culture also supports this proposal from the Ministry of Culture. So to paragraph 1 of the draft resolution on parliamentary hearing recommendations on "Taras Shevchenko as a global figure (up to 200 years of birth)" add item "E." To provide 100% of funding in 2014 at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. The completion of the production of the complex educational film by Tolok, directed by Michael Illenck, is a screenplay of Taras Shevchenk's plan of action approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on March 2, 2011 (No167r). With this addition, the proposal of a profile committee to support the recommendations of parliamentary hearings dedicated to the 200th anniversary of Shevchenk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u246	I'm asking the committee head not to leave the rostrum so we can make a decision before the break. Please, I can see two hands. Please, National Deputy Benjuk, Freedom faction. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u247	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Bogdan Benjuk. I fully support the proposal to confirm all the decisions that have been made at the hearings. I want to get everyone's attention again on the production of the new film "Toloka", which has just been mentioned. Indeed, it is approved by our State, half of the production of this film paid, and half of the second that was promised by the great family and guaranteed the fund such, but this fund has not fulfilled its obligations, through the court, the fund does not confirm its decisions and so, given the things that are happening to us, we ask, really, to support the completion of this film and purely state support. It takes $2 million to make this film by 50%. And we ask all the deputies to vote for it and support it, because film can be a great event in the cultural life of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u248	National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u249	The Honourable Ukrainian Parliament. So it happened that in the 200th year of our genius we celebrated in March, when the situation in the state was pretty complicated, and it's usually hard now. And we didn't add much to how to honor Shevchenk, because of these measures that the committee is proposing, they are very important, and they really need to be done over the course of the year. And I want to speak separately about the film "Toloka," by a wonderful Ukrainian director from the Iliank family, represented here by Andrew Illenko, our colleague from Freedom Party. And I've been talking to Michael Illenck recently, he's very upset, it's got to be a really beautiful film, and we have to, the Ministry's request, and this is already our request, to finish this film and give it to Ukrainian society. As a result, I would like to vote in favour of the measures proposed by the Committee on Culture and Spirituality and with the addition of the Ministry of Culture to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can. I ask that we now be determined to take into account the suggestions made by the chairman of the committee. Please, Your Honor, there is a proposal for a draft Decree 4867 to be accepted as a whole. No objections? I won't. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote. [[13:56:05]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 58 – "The Fatherland", 23 – regions, "The Strike" – 27, 29 – "The Economic Development", "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 29.34 – "Freedom", "The Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues! The committee heads include a microphone, Kirilenka Viacheslava.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u251	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!", Fatherland," head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. First of all, not all colleagues were able to vote, Mr. Head. So I'm asking you to come back, go back to this question. Put it to the vote again. Six votes is not enough. And secondly, all the recommendations of all the factions that came to us on the committee after the parliamentary hearings on March 5th are taken into account. I mean, it's like maybe it's just about the movies here. But there's 22 points, there's the bookkeeping, there's the infrastructure, there's social advertising, there's the publication of encyclopedias, there's a whole set of questions about the promotion of Taras Shevchenk's legacy in 200 years and in the years to come. Because it's 200 years just a reason for all of us to mention our genius, which brings Ukraine together. So I ask everyone to vote, even the UK Company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m0.u252	Dear colleagues! Can we go back to that question? We can. Let's go back to this question, please support this proposal. Just take your seats. Please support a return to this question. Colleagues, don't take the vote. Please make up your mind about returning to this question. Please vote. [[13:58:04]] For 228 Decision taken. And let's take it as a whole. Please vote. [[13:58:26]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please let us take a break with the feeling that they have fulfilled their duty. Let's support the committee profile and support the draft Resolution on the Approval of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations without the report "Availability and quality of general secondary education: status and ways to improve." Colleagues, general secondary education, know how many problems need to be solved. Let's support it. And take a break. Please, Your Honor, back up. This is the draft of Decree 4062d. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[13:59:25]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you to all the national deputies for their work. The Supreme Council announces recess until 4:00.
