ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:09:17]] There were 223 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, attention, the Supreme Council may begin its work even when one MP is present in the session room. Another question is that the Supreme Council cannot accept the question of when we have fewer than 226 people's deputies in the room. Now, calm down, dear fellows. I want to inform both Ukrainian society and my colleagues that today we have very important issues to consider. These are questions that we were unable to consider last time in connection with the provocations that took place around the Supreme Council. This is a question that concerns ensuring the right to vote of our military personnel who are involved in an anti-terrorist operation and are outside the permanent deployment of their military forces. It is our duty to ensure their right to vote. This is a matter of budget changes related to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, antiterrorists, and other social groups. It's a matter of providing medicines for hospitals, vaccines for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis. This is a matter of ensuring the rights of displaced persons, people who are forced to leave their homes. And, dear colleagues, this is the question that we've included after turning on the combatants who run the battalions in the anti-terrorist operation zone to ban television broadcasts that celebrate Ukrainian invaders, celebrate the armies that fight against us, that annoy and disorient people. It is also our responsibility to make such a decision. At the same time, honourable colleagues, parliament is unable to deal with matters and make decisions when we have fewer than 226 national MPs. So I call on the leaders of the MPs and factions to immediately ensure that my colleagues show up, ensure their arrival at the session room. Security around Parliament is fully controlled. Parliament can work today without any restrictions. So, dear colleagues, I'm taking a 30-minute break, up to 10, 45 minutes, and I'm asking the leaders of the MPs and factions to ensure the appearance of their national deputies. An interval of up to 10 hours is announced for 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u2	I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies can enter the session hall. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'd like to ask that while the deputies sit in their seats, in a minute let's let the faction leaders express themselves about the faction's willingness to work, although I'm in a questionable mood on this point. I have doubts, fellow believers, that today Parliament is capable of fulfilling its duty to the country. I mean. I opened a session, honorary colleagues, at the proper time to come and listen to information. I'd like to ask, fellow officers, one minute from the faction, I'll give you a chance to speak. I want to inform all the national MPs that today's appearance will be printed in the Voice of Ukraine, will be opposed in the regions so that our voters can make an assessment of who cares, who doesn't care about their rights, who does their duties, who doesn't. I'll remind you that strategically important issues we should have considered with you. Please sign up for the factions. Turn on the "Race" system. People's MP Rosenko, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u3	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to tell all the voters what's going on today at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our faction, the Vitalia Klicka faction, is in the sessional room in full stock. All 42 men today are at work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who is there today? There is no Communist in the hall today. I don't see any so-called opposition bloc representatives today -- former representatives of the Party of Regions that are sabotaging the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. They tell society on TV how they will be supporting social programs there, even though they have carried out their own pension reform here in the hall with their own voices. And today we have a whole series of social bills under consideration by the Supreme Council, and they're not in the hall today, but on screen they tell us about the future bright. That's why we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u4	Let's finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u5	Therefore, we insist that all deputies today appear on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, society should receive answers to these questions that concern them. And there are so many questions. We drive all over Ukraine. We communicate with people. And if they are walking today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they will do the same tomorrow. So I urge everyone to come to work with the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u6	Thank you. People's Deputy Moshensky, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u7	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! Look, the MPs are responsible, because if the teacher doesn't come to the workplace, they're going to give him the catch and then they're going to kick him out. If the doctor doesn't come to the workplace, I'll catch up with him. Why are MPs who have not come to the next meeting today, why are they not being expelled, why are we here and they are not? This is a matter of responsibility to the people of Ukraine. Now for the change. You know, we were hoping that if there was an emergency meeting, we would consider the issues that really concern the people of Ukraine. Once again, we are not in line for the day-to-day changes in pension reform, and this is asked in every village. Once again, there is no law on Mishchenka's inheritance -- asked in every village, asked me yesterday, the other day. I understand that this Supreme Council will never fully accept it, even though at its last meeting it was in order of the day. Why is this happening? Instead, among the important bills proposed is the bill on amendments to electoral legislation a week before the elections. Some of the changes there are positive, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u8	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u9	Fraudish, for which even the authorities of Yanukovich had not been conceivable. I'm sorry, what does it mean to print ballot papers without restriction? I'm sorry, what does it mean if there's a violation on the district commission and they don't count, the only violation that's left is if the cellophane is broken? I'm sorry, who came up with this idea, who planned to fake the election? Who is proposing this bill of Zwania? Where is he, anyway? And how could he offer us this?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm the only one who gives the information that an alternative bill from the national MP of the German Republic is dealing with the issue of solely the vote of our military. And this is the bill I would like to support. Please, the People's Deputies of Doubenkov, the Party of the Regions. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u11	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Thank you, dear colleagues and distinguished voters. What I'm saying is that there's a gentleman here who's so psychologically unstable, a representative of the strike faction, who says that there are no representatives of the opposition block, I want to say that there are representatives, they'll support all the social initiatives that you're taking. We're going to vote against the pension reform. Please put us on the agenda. Nobody's listening right now. As far as electoral legislation is concerned, we will be firm against this legislative initiative, because these legislative initiatives are aimed at: first, forging the elections, which I also support the previous speaker; and secondly, it is proposed to vote that residents of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions be deprived of the right to vote. We're not gonna support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u12	National MP Yatzenko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, and the media. Well, every major who comes to the village, for example, sees the problem of reshaping an inheritance today. This question has been brought up since the past, I emphasize, from the last Supreme Council and today it is again, unfortunately, not in the order of the day. So what people say is, they built a house, then transformed, they need 10,000 dollars. Well, let's take this law today, because there are people in this room, I think they'll be enough. And secondly, question number two. Today, I want to speak on behalf of the Economic Development Group and all my fellow MPs. So what do we see in every district's election today? The whole arsenal: voter bribery goes full turn, threats, criminal element, and so on. I'm paying attention to the media, and I'm asking you very much to all the major districts where, unfortunately, the block of Peter Dustenka is being exhibited, so pay attention to them and release the media and observers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, the national deputy Catherinechuk gives the floor to the national deputy of Germany. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! Today in the ATO zone, our nation's flower is being fought by patriots who risk their lives every day so that we can negotiate peacefully here today what laws we need to adopt for Ukraine. My bill deals solely with the right to implement the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens, especially those in the ATO area today, in the trenches, to choose the Supreme Council they want to represent their interests in the future. So there's a huge request, support me, this bill applies exclusively to the military, which is now in the ATO zone. And I want to address those national MPs who are not on the Supreme Council today, to those national MPs who will not vote in favour of this law. It would be fair if you took it and went instead of these guys, sat in the trenches, took the machine and then let them go home so that they could vote on how it guaranteed their right by the Constitution. And today, if you're avoiding it, it's yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u16	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u17	It's a disgrace to you, shame! Because these patriots have the right to choose the Supreme Council more than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u18	Thank you. People's Deputy Tegnibok, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u19	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, this is what the Supreme Council may look like if representatives of the oligarchic clans are elected to this Parliament. The U.S. Freedom Union is not only present today in a fully-fledged room, it not only votes in full at all, but it does so throughout the entire chamber, because every deputy has to be here in the session room. And this Parliament has disgraced itself, has disgraced itself by not adopting the necessary laws for the Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian state, has not adopted the Decommunization Act, the UN-OPA Recognition Act, has not adopted laws to abolish parliamentary immunity, has not adopted procedures to recall MPs, officials and judges, has not passed laws to recover funds from offshores, has not approved laws to prohibit private monopolies and oligopolies. Today we had to vote, and by inheritance, today we had to vote on the currency loans that people are expecting from us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u20	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u21	This was the last day of the session to give us a positive outcome. And these villain MPs, who were still hammishing themselves here in Parliament, who were here breaking down meetings, which on January 16 with their hands voted, and thus, eternal shame was imposed on that Parliament, and they are not here today. The Society, be vigilant, is not to be elected to the Supreme Council for the subsequent convening of such Ukrainian phobics and bandits. Parliament must be Ukrainian, national, and working. The MPs have to go to the session, shame on the walkers! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u22	Thank you. Please sign up, non-fractional, first opportunity to speak. Baby, first, please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u23	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today's next meeting of the Supreme Council, I understand, was assembled for one purpose to falsify the election in Donbas. Because David Zwania's first bill is about forging elections. At Yanukovich, they didn't do it like the authorities do today, and they want Donbas to select national MPs, 20 to 30 people, and I think that the elections in the occupied territories can be held on one condition when these occupied territories are freed. And the authorities do not liberate the occupied territories, leave the people under Russian occupation, and want to falsify the elections in order to obtain the 11 mandates of the people's deputies at the expense of falsification. Shame on the followers of Yanukovich, who are now in power! And if you are meeting today, Alexander Valentine's Day, put two questions into the agenda of today's session: the question of how to make an inheritance in the country and the question of paying off currency loans. People can't pay 15 dollars a dollar in foreign exchange loans, people can't afford to pay those loans. So we're together, and I think there's going to be votes for these two questions: inheritance issues in the country and foreign exchange issues, issues that are overwhelming to millions of Ukrainian citizens. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! You've given everyone the opportunity to speak. I will provide help, first of all with regard to the inclusion of additional laws, I will not rule out such an option if Parliament is able to vote positively. To include laws in the absence of national MPs is blasphemy. That's the first one. The second question, the honourable colleagues, regarding the Law of Election Change, I think the representative of the President can tell you more about the first law. I am interested in the law that, once again, I emphasize, introduced the national deputy of Yemen, which deals solely with the voting of our military personnel. It's basically a position and I think for everyone, for all political parties. Next, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. Now I'm looking at the monitor, we have 225 cards in the hall. I'm now, my dear colleagues, announcing a recess for another 15 minutes to 11 hours for 25 minutes. If there are no national MPs in the amount required for the adoption of the laws, I will close the session. Before that, I'll have my registration. All MPs who won't register under the heading "Nobody to vote for" will be printed in "The Voice of Ukraine" asking to be printed in all district and district newspapers. Period. A break of up to 11 hours is announced for 25 minutes. Heads of factions, please enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please welcome Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. [[Applause]] We're going to have the National Deputies' registration with you now. Please announce to everyone who's in the towers. I'm warning you, those who don't register now will be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, the names of these deputies. And the title of this list will be: "Deputies who do not perform their constitutional functions, duties, do not take part in the meetings of the Supreme Council and do not vote for the electorate." Ladies and gentlemen, please conduct the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of National Deputies]] There are 240 national deputies registered in the hall. We continue our work, dear colleagues. I would immediately like to make an announcement in accordance with the application and, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, report the exit of the national deputies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodimir Mikolaiovich, from the MP's "For Peace and Stability" group. I would ask technical personnel, if possible, to bring out the factions of the presence of deputies in the hall. "Paternal Development" is 52, the Party of Regions is only 27, the Impact Party is 41, the Economic Development is 34, the Sovereign European Ukraine is less than half: 14, Freedom is 34, Peace and Stability is 2, non-fractional is 36. Dear colleagues! I ask now to hear the information he wishes to provide to the Parliament of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The government calls on Parliament to vote today on a number of very important laws that are necessary for the country. I would start with the first law on the rights of temporary displaced persons. The bill provides for the legal basis for determining the internally displaced person, gives legal guarantees to that person at a new place of residence, determines the order of employment, the payment of the State’s social obligations and the provision of appropriate assistance to temporarily displaced persons. I would like to remind members of Parliament that the government has made a number of decisions regarding temporary displaced persons. First. The registration of temporarily displaced persons from the area of anti-terrorist operation has been initiated. Now, every person comes to our social security office, gets help, and according to this help, they get all the social benefits, starting with retirement, and ending up with other social security payments. The other one. The government has decided to create a single state register of temporarily displaced persons. And we need this law in order to normalize the functioning of this Single State Register, where every person who is temporarily transferred will be registered, all personal data of this person will be used, and these personal data will be used to enable a person to get a job, a salary, a pension and a temporary residence. Third. A decision has been made by the Government to make payments for temporary displaced persons. So for one family — up to 2,000,400 dollars — the family can receive 2,000,400 dollars a month. For a disabled person, 884 bracelets, for a working person, half of that amount. In particular, I note that payments will be made in the event that a temporary transferee comes and registers with the Employment Center. We need to get to work. If you want the state to help you, help yourself. That is why, in order to legitimize all decisions already taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we appeal to Parliament to vote in favour of the relevant draft law passed by Irina Heratchenko and other Ukrainian national deputies in order to allow us to finally resolve the issue of temporary displaced persons. In particular, I want to point out that we can't cope with temporary displacements alone, as well as with the restoration of Donbas. And in order to get the funding, the donor, from our Western partners, we need to adopt this law and this will allow the European Union, the United Nations, the G7 countries to provide additional financial resources to support temporary displaced persons. We've now decided to pay for six months for temporary displaced persons. We also pay off the debts that have already arisen from those persons living in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and from those living in the territory of the Donetské region to those living in the area of Donetské and Lugansk, who have moved to the sanatorium. So the total of 25 million is the first tranche that we allocate to pay the living expenses of these people and their families. The second question that I would like very much to ask members of Parliament right now to vote is that of providing medicine and medical supplies. The government has decided to remove the Ministry of Health from its responsibilities for total failure and corruption in the Ministry of Health for ensuring the full purchase of medical drugs and medical supplies and that prices continue to grow. Now in 20 days, what we've been able to do. Thus, the total volume of medical supplies and medical supplies total 1.7 billion dollars. Every day we work with the Antimonopoly Committee, with patient and medical organizations and today's acting Health Minister will give an appropriate press conference and sign corresponding agreements with patient organizations. But we need the Parliament to make two decisions. First decision, amendment to the Law on Medical Devices. We bought a BCG vaccine, it's a TB vaccine to use 509,000 of this vaccine, we need to make changes to the law, and we need to get this vaccine all over the hospitals. We're running out of this vaccine over the course of the year, which is until the September-Yellow month of next year. The second thing we're also asking for is the adoption of the HIV/AIDS Programme. The adoption of this program will enable us to buy drugs for children who are infected with HIV/AIDS, allow us to start quickly retroversal assistance to these people and enable us to get about 1.2 billion dollars from the global fund. Third, regarding public works. You know, honourable colleagues, that this bill has been tabled both by the government and by the Ukrainian National Deputies. We support Bill 2770. Now people are suffering from unemployment, and so we ask for changes to the relevant law, and for the possibility of funding from the Employment Fund directly. This is a change to the Employment of Population Act of Ukraine, direct public works, including public works for the construction of the Wall or the European Wall, including public works for the restoration of the Donetsk and Lugansk infrastructure. This will enable us to employ an additional 45,000. A separate issue concerns the Vacation Act. This is true of those who have left the territory of an anti-terrorist operation and in order for them to have a salary and all of this. During the time that was forced into the workplace, we need to help these people make changes to the Ukrainian Vacation Act. And last of all, two blocks of questions. These are the guys who got hurt, who got rid of their limbs and who have to be helped. Colleagues, it's about operations, after rehabilitation, after prosthetics abroad. So, making changes to the U.K. State Budget Act. We ask Parliament to redistribute expenses and allocate 7 million dollars to participants in an anti-terror operation in order to carry out prosthetics abroad. Now we have dozens of our guys who have lost limbs, some of which get prosthetics from Ukrainian businesses. We have a total of 70 companies that do prosthetics. Part of prosthetics must be carried out abroad. Seven million dollars by the end of this year for prosthetics abroad. And we're asking 2 million dollars to be assigned to the created service on the subject of anti-terrorist operations and war veterans. In order to start the procedure as registrations for the participants, it is already under way, and now it is necessary to register these participants and to help every military official, each of our boys, who is subject to the law, in order to give all the certifications to the participants of the ATO and to provide all the social benefits and guarantees accordingly. In fact, this is the package that we're talking to Parliament because we realize that the next Parliament will be sitting at best in a month's time. And people are expecting help right now. We can't delay this. Therefore, I ask the members of Parliament to support the package introduced by the Government of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have an offer and a request for you. In order for us to be able to consider all the proposed bills, taking into account the complexity that our Parliament is facing, namely, the very limited number of people who are carrying out their constitutional duties and working today in the session room, however, I would ask that we now vote that all the issues that are being considered are being considered in the summary procedure. Please support: a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there'll be an offer without discussion, I'll make it without discussion. So please, for the summary procedure, please support. Please vote everyone. [[11:37:55]] For-173 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, after hearing the Prime Minister's information to start with social issues, particularly those that depend on the lives of our citizens, it's about providing medicine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, all the laws are given at the proper time. These laws are included, calmly, in the order of the day, honourable colleagues, two months ago, when we voted in September, they are included in the agenda. Not two months ago, I'm sorry, there's a few weeks ago, they're handed over to the people's deputies at the right time. Therefore, please give your helpers an assignment to inform you of the laws that have been passed. They are included in the agenda and should not be included in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on Circulation and State Control of the Quality of Medical Resources Imported into the Customs Territory of Ukraine. Temporary Minister of Health Lazarish, Vasil Vasilovich. Please. The Prime Minister is very short on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, once again, this is the law that foresees the possibility. First. It is entirely appropriate to bring Ukrainian legislation on medical devices into line with the requirements of the European Union. Now we have a pre-registration procedure that has nothing to do with the real quality of medical supplies, it's just corruption. We eliminate this procedure, we do it according to European standards. And this will allow us to adopt this law, to use the 509,000 BCG vaccines that have already been purchased by the government and are waiting to be delivered against tuberculosis to Ukrainian hospitals. The law was introduced on August 11 of this year and registered, and all procedures were completed. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I see your hands up. Please. I see, Your Honor, I can't break the rules. Please sign up for the discussion. Please don't let anyone out of the session room. Jacenka, Economic Development, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, indeed, the question is raised correctly. But still, the more people are concerned about today, the constant rise in drug prices. And we can't from the government submit a draft law that would ensure that a minimum allowance is set for medical supplies, because today there's only a list on which it's set up and retirees have to spend their last money, unfortunately, on drugs and they're constantly growing. The government would like to pay close attention to this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u31	Osuhovsky. National MP, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Oleg Helvey.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u33	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Heleway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u34	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Today, we have a huge disaster in the drug - purchase system, and only 20 percent of the drugs are purchased. As soon as we treat people tomorrow, no one knows. The stores are running out of drugs. This law, therefore, is needed as soon as possible in the walls of the Supreme Council. I very much ask all the deputies and those who want to eat now, not vote, and those who want to go to the bathroom somewhere, to be present and vote for this necessary bill, as always voted "Freedom" in percent, and as always shows everyone the example of how to vote for the necessary bills in the walls of the Supreme Council. Dear Society, if we don't vote on this bill today, we won't have anything to treat our patients tomorrow. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u35	Thank you. People's deputy Heratchenko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, really these laws were introduced into the agenda in August, they passed all the committees and received full support from the profile committees. Our political power has long been in favor of the need to bring the health ministry into line, and finally to deal with the issue of vaccination of our children, both in the ATO zone and throughout Ukraine. So it's absolutely right that this law is now in the order of the day. Our faction will give 41 votes to all national deputies for his support. I also point out that the President of Ukraine has repeatedly addressed the question of what should be done here. And so there can be no doubt, and there's some other decision in all the political factions in the room that this law needs to be supported in general, because children can't wait for the ATO to end up there or something like that, they have to get a normal vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u37	Thank you. Blessings, National Deputy, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u38	Oleg's lass, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Surely we will support this bill, but, Alexander Valentine's Day, as for the Head of the Supreme Council, I have a question to ask you: Isn't there any more pressing questions in the country when we've gathered an extraordinary session? We have 240 votes here today, as a minimum, from two questions, this is the question of creating an inheritance in the country and the issue of paying off currency loans. Why don't you put these issues in the agenda as Head of the Supreme Council? You obviously don't know that millions of people, namely 4 million Ukrainian citizens, don't have the ability to pay foreign exchange at that idiotic, dragonish rate that is today. Millions of Ukrainian peasants cannot form their inheritance, pass their houses to their children, because they don't have 10 or 20 thousand dollars to pay the notary, pay the BTI for their house they built. I think that if we are going to the Ukrainian Parliament for the last time before the elections today, it is not the laws that forge the elections, it is the question of inheritance and the issue of monetary credit payments. I address you first, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, and this is supported by all the national MPs here. Put to the vote the question of inheritance, the issue of payment of currency loans. This is our duty to Ukrainian citizens. Well, and taking advantage of the opportunity to have the Prime Minister here. Arsenija Petrovich, people in the Dangerous Lugansk region haven't paid their salary since July. Similarly, there is no water, gas, and light in the liberated Marianne region of Donetsk that has been released since July. In many other cities and villages in the freed areas, wages are not paid, nor are pensions paid to people. I'm asking you, I'm asking the Minister of Social Policy, who's running for office, to go to the polls. Ludmila, first pay people their pensions and welfare, then go to the polls. Because I think you've played with the election. You're all in the election now, instead of solving the social problems of the Donbas residents, the social problems of all Ukrainian citizens. Stop playing the election, do what you've been chosen to do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, took the floor. With regard to the proposals made by law. In the event that the Supreme Council is able to make positive decisions, I will put an end to the Heritage Act. One. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, calm down! Calm down, please! Our decision will now depend on people’s lives. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you want to cancel the meeting? Try to do it! Take your seats, please. Take your seats, please. Give the sick a water, let the man rest. Please, Your Honor, we must now make a decision on which the lives of our citizens depend: that is, providing our citizens with medicines. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, you have to shout loudly in your constituencies, you don't have to work here. Please, dear fellows! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The only one I have is an address for all of you. In order for us to make a decision, considering that there are enough national MPs in the room than there should be, I ask everyone to prepare very carefully for the vote. Prepare very carefully for the vote. Alexander Volodymyrna, please, your voice may not be enough to pass this law. So, dear colleagues, please support me. Alexandra Volodymyr, please. So we don't lose the vote. Give me a minute to tell the people's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u41	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. It's about the vaccine that Raisa Botirevo bought. It has indeed reached the end of the registration period and has ended yet, and there is a short period of validity. But the Acting Minister, Lazorišinec, has the opportunity to introduce it by his command and to assume responsibility. And to transfer to the members of the Supreme Council, if there are the same negative consequences as its vaccinations, I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. You've listened carefully to the speech, the speech, yes, the Cabinet of Ministers, it's about people's lives. Now, colleagues, please, let's sit in our seats, let's vote on the law. If you don't make a decision, let me give you a chance to speak, please, we're just going to vote now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Colleagues, colleagues! Please, the head of the committee, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, this bill has indeed been registered on 11 September, but we have only received conclusions on Friday, October. This bill will not be able to work and will not allow the IPOI to carry out the vaccination properly and responsibly. Because, in fact, Alexander Kugel correctly said that it had been purchased by the previous Government, and the registration had already passed. We take responsibility for the lives of children, and this law may, if it is necessary for the MOHO to not buy new, dignified drugs today, assume responsibility by the decision of the Kabmin to authorize their vaccination. As a national MP, I will not vote, it will be the lives of the children that will be questioned. Although no vaccine is needed today, believe me, there is no vaccine in any city or region. Therefore, to transfer responsibility to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u44	I see. Will the government comment on the question? Please, is there a representative of the MOHO? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u45	It is our responsibility to shoulder the responsibility of the country’s distinguished national deputies. So you don't vote to allow 509,000 vaccines that match the legislation that people expect to be sent to the hospital and vaccinated against tuberculosis. Well, is there a mind?Oh, my God! What are we having a discussion about?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u46	Please, MOH, a brief comment, from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u47	Good day, Mr. Alexander Valentine's Day, the distinguished national MPs, in fact, the bill that is under consideration today will apply to the BCG vaccine and the rest of the medicine. It is very important, indeed, that the BCG vaccine, the standard that is proposed today, is that the medical devices have passed quality control and were produced during the operation of the licence. In addition, quality checks were carried out in Ukraine. And please support this bill, which will give possible already registered medical devices that have been registered, have been purchased at the expense of the state budget, the local budgets, to allow them to be used before the deadline set by the manufacturer is reached. The adoption of this bill will remove the block for 700,000 doses of the necessary BZZ vaccine. It's our nation's biosafety, it's a reduction in the disease of newborns and children for the first three years of life from generalized tuberculosis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u48	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u49	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There are indeed many urgent questions, but this question is no less important than all the ones we are talking about. Then let's look for a solution, taking into account the critical minimum number of people in the room, maybe then we vote in favour of this law except for one line, and then BCS will be a separate command of the acting minister, just put into effect. Because otherwise, there are no votes at all. "Freedom" in a hundred percent would vote, "SHOOT," I heard, too. But we still need to find the words or actions to convince those 226 needed. I think it is wise to consult in the government’s bed right now, to make a decision, and to make an offer to a hall that will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u50	People's MP Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Let me briefly explain the nature of the problem that we need to solve. The drugs we're talking about have received a registration certificate, they've been imported, the registration certificate's expired. As long as we're going to get new documents, we're going to run out of time for drugs, so I'm going to call on everyone who has a head to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote, everyone, please take your seats. And you know, it's surprising to me that representatives, or ex-representatives of the Party of Regions, are saying that their government, the government of Azarova-Janukovich, has committed a violation. We know this is a violation, but right now it's about people's lives, and these violations need to be corrected, and we have no choice but to do so. And we must act responsibly, dear fellows! So please, Your Honor, no speculation, no pre-election paphos, calmly support the government's proposals. Please, fellow Members, vote, (4459a): on the basis of and in general, fellow Members! We don't have time to accept as a basis, two months from now, only it can be accepted as a whole. Therefore, either voting or not voting at all should be on the basis and, in general, there is no other form of decision for today’s decision. Please, honourable national deputies, support the Government's proposal (4459a) on the basis and in general, on the basis and in general. Please vote. Everybody, let's go! [[11:54:50]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 51 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 27, Impact - 40, 25 - Economic Development, 16 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 - Freedom, 0 - MS, non-fractional - 21. In fact, the "Paternity" faction may or may not make that decision today. Please turn on the microphone for the people's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Another argument is that the registration system, not only for drugs but also for other drugs that exist in Ukraine, is not European. the standards of European directives. In accordance with this law, we are taking the first step to withdraw the double registration and certification of the double required by EU directives and our obligations under the Treaty of Association with the European Union. And quite faithfully, the MP Pinzenic explained the very meaning of this law. So let's just focus. And Mrs. Kugel, please, I don't have to traumatize my right ear.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u54	Dear colleagues. Please, National Deputy Rudzikowski, National Deputy Heratchenko. And I will give the Prime Minister a closing word. We'll make decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we really need to solve the drug issue. And really the procedure for registering drugs, it's so complicated that it really takes away part of our citizens' lives. We had the same situation when we imported drugs at the blood stop. The boys died in the war because the procedure is very complicated. And that's why you don't have to bargain here, you have to make a decision. And the responsibility lies with the Ministry: if these drugs are going to kill children, those who carry out these experiments should sit down first. The second question. That's why the issue needs to be voted on, not renegotiated. The second question. I'm addressing the Prime Minister. Throughout the country, thousands of people are being sent on their own account, and commission them: This is a violation of the law, which cannot be done. I've got a situation like this in the district.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the drugs were and unfortunately remain a dining room for whole clans, including the Richter clan. And that's why we really need the Henprosecutor's office to figure out who was out there buying. And those who were involved in corruption would be responsible. But what's this all about? A government budget that actually bought vaccines, and children today can't get vaccines. Likewise, I would like to point out that we do not have compulsory vaccination. Parents make decisions about whether or not they inoculate a child. And we really have to give those families who want to go through the vaccination and protect their child from the possibility of being infected with tuberculosis, get the vaccine right. And the last. It is quite obvious that the Ministry of Health is now taking over. The appropriateness of the regulations they have given, that this vaccine meets European standards, is true. We just have to let them actually use them. That's what we're talking about, dear colleagues. And hopefully next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Geller, national MP. Colleagues, I gave the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u59	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I understand that it is now pre-election at all times, so I ask you to behave accordingly. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of the necessary laws, and please do not say that someone is voting, someone is not. The faction of the Party of the Regions will therefore vote in favour of all the laws required for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u60	Please, Prime Minister, have a word. And we're going to try to get that question back.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head! There is a request to return to voting under this law. In two words again. This law has two elements. First. We are introducing a European procedure for the registration of medical devices. The person who opposes this procedure and the one who opposes the simplification of this procedure is in favour of continuing to be bribed for every registration. We ask that the European system be fully put in place and that European medicines be put on the Ukrainian market. No bribes and at a cheaper price. And the second. The law allows for the vaccination of 509,000 people with BCG vaccines against tuberculosis. It's the Ministry's responsibility, but give this responsibility to the law. Please vote. Please return to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u62	Colleagues, please prepare for the vote now. The only thing I'm talking to is all the people's deputies: friends, let's sit in our jobs, get ready. We don't have enough national MPs to be here in this room and at the border of the number of deputies to make decisions. So, colleagues, please let's finish the discussion at the column. David Vajaevich, please. I'm asking you, colleagues from Liberty, let's go to your jobs. [[Noise Nodes]] Yeah, it's okay. I'm asking you to sit everyone in your workplace, "Freedom" votes in full, I don't deny it. Moreover, I received a letter from the national deputy Shevchenk, who was not on the registration board, not working, but he was present during the registration. So, colleagues, please. Please prepare for the vote. And now, let's vote responsiblely for this decision. Please return to support the return to question 4459 a. Please, Your Honor, vote. We all vote. [[12:01:43]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Immediately, honourable colleagues, so that no one leaves the hall, I ask you for a basis and generally support this project – 4459a. Please vote. Guys, don't relax. [[12:02:07]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 54, 28 – Party of Regions, 39 – Impact, 27 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18.35 – Freedom, US$ 0, non-fractional – 29. I thank all the national deputies who have responded responsibly to their duties. Dear colleagues! Right out of this package is Law 4384 a. Draft Act approving the State-wide targeted social programme against HIV/AIDS. Please inform the Prime Minister very briefly. I am convinced that we will now vote without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u63	Honorable Members of Parliament! This bill gives us the opportunity to approve the state programme. The approval of the state programme, first of all, from the global fund, will give us an additional opportunity to get 1.2 billion dollars for retrovirus therapy and aid, to buy drugs for people with HIV. The program is planned for four years, and we introduced it a few months ago, and it's going to be able to finance now the purchase of HlV drugs and get funding. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u64	Colleagues, a very serious problem not only for Ukraine but also for all countries. That's why I'm asking. Can we take it without talking right now? We can. Please support Bill 4384a, on the basis and in general. Colleagues, everyone, please vote. Please. That's right. That's brave. [[12:03:50]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 60, Party of Regions – 31, Impact – 41, 29 – Economic Development, 18 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – MS, non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues! There's an offer right now. Dear colleagues, two questions are now: first, regarding the amendment of Appendix No. 3 to the State Budget Act, on the social protection of persons with disabilities, veterans and participants in the anti-terror operation (5146). Can we vote without discussion? Thank you so much for your trust, dear colleagues. Please prepare, just prepare, calmly, confidently. I'm asking for a base, 5146 as a whole. Please vote. To include and make decisions. [[12:04:57]] For 248 We've put it into the agenda. Decision taken. And now I ask for a basis and a general vote. Please, dear fellows. 5146 is based on the whole. Please vote. [[12:05:23]] For 248 There is potential still in the Supreme Council, despite all the difficulties in which we work. The factions, please. Decision taken. Parenthood - 63, 31 - Party of Regions, Impact - 41, 27 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 19, 35 - Freedom - for Peace and Stability - 1, non-fractional - 31. Please, dear fellows! I heard. The time will come. I'll set it up. [[Noise Nodes]] Please, colleagues! It won't go away! Here all the responsible national MPs who break up are the traitors of the Ukrainian people. Please. Please, dear fellows! [[Noise Nodes]] The next question is about internally displaced persons. You're from Luhansk County, don't you think?Oh, my God! Internally displaced persons are from your region. Please, Your Honor, to include in the agenda the draft Law on Internally Moved Persons, this applies to all citizens of Ukraine who have been forced to leave their homes whose rights must be guaranteed. Please, Your Honor, these are two laws: 4490a and 4490a-1. Please include them in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[Noise Nodes]] Include in the agenda. It's your law, Puckana. [[12:06:49]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 62, 30 – Party of Regions, 39 – Impact, Economic Development – 30, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18.35 – Freedom, USM – (traditionally) 0, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues, we have two alternative laws. I am so aware that I am now obliged to give the authors the law, I am the only one who does not see the MP Miroshnichenko, he is the one who is the one who is watching, so we will film his law and we will vote in favour of the law of Puckan Valeri Vasilovich. Colleagues, will we listen to Valery Vasilovich? Whether we vote now or not. Let's vote now. Oh, no? Please, Valérie, on the rostrum. Your faction denies that we should vote now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u65	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Honorable to all the Ukrainian people! We owed more than half a million Ukrainians who had to leave their homes in connection with an antiterrorist operation — the Forced Resettlement Act. We have two laws on the committee. Law 4490a of the People’s Deputies of Miroshnichenko and Law 4490a/1 of October 14, 2014. I would like to point out that it has been the new edition since October 14, 2014. That's what Mermaid's talking about. Here, for the most part, article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine has been rewritten in detail. A very complicated status procedure forced a displaced person. The law was passed by me, the national deputies Heratchenko, Ionova, Lucenko, Shevchenko, Benjuk and Kaido. It states that this law creates the only state register of displaced persons. We provide clear procedures and mechanisms to help these forced displaced people. And this bill needs to be adopted as a whole. We have no time to delay this bill now to be adopted as a basis and yet to vote in favour of it in the next Parliament. Please support the committee's decision and vote in favour of Bill 4490a/1, passed on 14 October 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, can we vote on whether there is a need for discussion? Who? Heratchenka, please have a word. I'll give you two hands, three hands. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, indeed, today only 420,000 immigrants are officially registered in Ukraine. This is a huge number of people, and we have to define their status and support them. At the same time, we and the government now and with all the drafters of the bill discussed what this law should work, it should not be populist. And so in order for us to be able to accept it both on the basis and in general, we ask that we exclude now, under the transcript, from this law the few paragraphs that the state can't take today, particularly this article 9, the point that the movers can still apply to local self-government authorities, asking for land allocations at the expense of earmarking the target loan and so on. Because the government here has made the right decision to provide financial assistance for renting homes. Similarly, in order for this bill to work, we ask that it be deleted: in article 4, paragraph 6; in article 4, paragraph 8, paragraph 2 and paragraph 3; in article 4, paragraph 10, paragraphs 2 and 6; in article 4, paragraph 11, paragraph 5; in article 4, paragraph 13 and beyond. Change the name "One State Register" to "One Information Database on Internally Moved Persons". In article 7, paragraph 4, in the second paragraph, delete the words “notaryly certified” and complete the words “the cessation of other types of employment, including self-employment and entrepreneurial activities, which are carried out in accordance with the stated principle and simplified procedure of the place of residence of the person in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers”. Article 7 is paragraph 3; paragraph 9 is paragraph 5, paragraph 9, paragraph 1 is paragraph 4 and Article 12 is paragraph 9. And I want to point out that this bill we worked with volunteers, social organizations and international organizations. It is fully in line with the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, only paragraph 5 with paragraph 4 do not confuse and we will now vote. Please, Rudzkowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to adopt this bill, because hundreds of thousands of people now find themselves without state material assistance, actually leaving without their property. And we have to change, no change, but adopt this bill. I also have a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I would still ask that if we were to set up minimum financial assistance, let's set it at the minimum of living, no 800 dollars or anything. The second question. We've got another question to ask you about the introduction of vacation legislation. It is offered to people who have lost their job in the ATO area to send them on free vacations. Dear colleagues, this is quite the wrong approach. People paid for their lives to the Unemployment Relief Fund. They should be included in the unemployed and given financial assistance at the level established by the law on unemployment. We have to, we have to do this. People have left without material possessions, without clothing, and this will help them to avoid being beggars in Ukraine. I'm very much asking that this is how we solve this issue. And the last. Alexander Valentinovich, we, the non-fractional vote on this law for the last time, and the following, if the Heritage Act is not established, we do not take part in the vote, we go out to the rostrum and we insist until the Heritage Act is voted in the session hall, we vote no more. I call on the Prime Minister to support our position in order to resolve the issue that concerns people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, please calm down. Now we can make decisions. We have the last speaker. Please, People's Deputies Leonov, Freedom. I'll give you a chance to speak on the next issue. Four speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u71	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has been demanding the Supreme Council of Ukraine to pass the Law on the Status of Temporaryly Moved Persons for six months. Since the occupation of Crimea, thousands of the best criminals, the best patriots of Ukraine, who have fought for the entire life of Ukrainian statehood in Crimea immediately after the occupation, have become refugees, have been persecuted, tortured, and killed on the side of the occupation regime. After that, more problems were added. The war began in Donbas, a real war, not a terrorist operation. And thousands more immediately of the best sons and daughters of Ukraine found themselves in exile, forced to leave their homes, the state must at least determine their status. Because right now we just don't notice them. De jure of our citizens just doesn't exist. They just sort of voluntarily moved inside the state from one place to another, it's legal. In fact, they lost everything: they lost all their lives, they lost the lives of their ancestors. Because, as in my family, like my father, my grandfather, my great - grandfather, my great - grandfather was buried in the Crimean land, and at one time I too became unavailable to my home. While we were on Maydan burning and Putin and Yanukovich had already played the cards, we occupied our Crimea. Therefore, my friends, now that we have no difficulty in voting this law, we must establish a status, and amendments to this law can be passed indefinitely, because there are no irreprehensible laws. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at these moments, I think we should speak. Colleagues, I can only, when the faction insists, give in one minute. Come on, Sobolev, we didn't come from the faction. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u73	Regrettably, the Law on Forced Migrants (Sobolev, faction of Fatherland) was dedicated. And that's why it doesn't work until now. The bill, which is now being introduced, provides a key issue for dealing with displaced persons. And it's very good that the drafters of the bill have taken away a whole bunch of populist things that would never have been done. But in addition, I would like to point out that over here, over here, we have to decide immediately on how to pay pensions and wages that go through bank separations. Arsenius Petrovich, Dangerous. All the money is counted. The bank "Awal" doesn't work. So no one can get a pension. Note this. We checked it out. All the money came to this populace, but no one can get the money there. So there's a big request to analyze, if there's no way through one bank, to pay it off in another way. Because we're going to get a situation where we don't regulate it by law, no temporary movers. This law must be upheld, and it is a principle for us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, Homutinnik of Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill. Today, tens of thousands of people are forced to live elsewhere. And it's very good that we have people who accept immigrants now that are good and respectable enough in any region for these people. But we have to regulate this issue legislatively and give local communities more authority. Provide opportunities for those who find themselves in a difficult situation. So I urge you to support this bill, but any changes that have been highlighted here, we can't do. Let us accept as a whole what is, and if there are any questions, then we will make some changes. But you can't do anything out of the voice, so this is the point, this is the point. The law is done, it needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, one minute, two more factions have not come forward. Please, Litwin Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u77	Dear Head, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine! Clearly, this law must be adopted. I just wouldn't be so hot about the ground. You are well aware that the land is no longer in the countryside. It's going to be conflict -- teachers, social workers wouldn't get it. The other one. The ATOs do not receive earth’s participants. Therefore, it is necessary to make this decision and to provide for the necessary financial provisions for internally displaced persons. And the second. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I turn to the government. We need to address the issue of implementing laws to ensure that ATOs, especially injured ones, are provided. Especially those who need long - term treatment that needs prosthetics, not those that are simply spoken of, to make them feel that they have full attention on the part of the State. Finally. Dear Head, I ask you to put the question of inheritance to the vote afterwards. Because I have this feeling that there is no criminal authority, and the "breathing" is being preserved by the new democratic power. And let people not feel that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputies of Doubenkov, and we'll make our decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The faction of the Party of the Regions will normally not be sidelined with the problems of protecting the interests of temporarily displaced persons, because this is really an urgent problem today. Hundreds of thousands of citizens from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Donetsk, Luhansk region, were forced to move. But it's about protecting citizens' rights, because we're talking about adopting this bill to protect citizens' rights. Injustice, I think, has been removed from the consideration of Bill 4490a, which is also supported by us. His point is that he provides more guarantees for the protection of the rights of forced temporary displaced persons. In view of the fact that we are about to vote in favour of Bill 4490a-1, I propose to add to article 8 of this bill a paragraph guaranteeing the right to free residence at temporary residence. The following point is made: "Give temporarily forced displaced persons the right to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u80	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u81	Let me finish, now, a minute. "Free residence at the premises of the temporary placement of internally displaced persons, requirements for the temporary placement of internally displaced persons shall be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The list of places for the temporary placement of internally displaced persons and the order of maintenance of such places is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals of executive authorities and local self-government authorities." This rule will create an effective, practical mechanism for the realization of the right to at least free residence of these citizens. Because the question is very urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, with Terjehohin's proposal, a national MP. And I will give my word to the government, and we will vote after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u83	Thank you so much! Teryohin, Kyiv, Voice. I would like to emphasize a coalition possible if we adopt this law with the Act on the Economic Status of the Occupied Crimea, the author of which I am proud to be. It contains article 14, which also sets forth rights for internally displaced persons. If this law is to be passed, then it should also be extended to the Crimean Act, because there will be different regimes for forced migrants from Crimea and Donetsk and Luhansk, and this cannot be done, this strife has been imposed. So let's put it this way, in the final positions of this law, to write the formula that article 14 of the Crime Act is presented in the same wording as this law. Do you understand what this is about? And with that, we're going to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u84	Please, Your Honor, understand the position. From the government of Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk, please Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, the country’s distinguished national deputies, let us give you, in connection with the law on displaced persons, on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons. I very much ask that we speak honestly to the people in the electoral rhetoric and in this electoral field. Now we've made a commitment, think about it, we've now registered 420,000 temporary displaced persons, we've got payment per person of 884 bracelets, that's inworkable, that's half of that amount for a disabled person. Considering that payments go through all the inworkable, 355 million a month, payouts for six months. Only 2 billion dollars in payments over six months, that's in case the figure doesn't go up. And we are now seeing a tendency that, once the government has made the right decision and the provision of additional payments, there is an incredible rate of growth in registration. What happened to us was that last week, three days, plus six percent. That's why I'm asking us not to lie to people. What we can pay now, we'll pay. That is why there is a request to support the draft law, which takes into account the proposals made by the author of the law, Irina Heratchenko, with a clear definition that the scope of funding is being implemented and determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So what we're going to do is we're going to give it away. What's not there is nothing to promise and lie to people. As far as two other laws are concerned, this is the Heritage Act. I would like to express my official position to the government, Alexander Valentinovich, and to address the members of Parliament. The government was directly involved in the drafting of the bill. The purpose of the bill is very simple: to give rural and rural councils the right to take notary action. The government supports this decision and we ask that it vote in favour of the bill. [[Applause]] The third question raised here was the payment of pensions and salaries. In principle, everywhere we control areas, we pay pensions and wages and all kinds of social assistance. But in the separate territories that have just been released, you send an incarcerated car there, and the bandits hunt it down and steal money. That's why now I've heard your position by one of the population points -- it's dangerous -- we're going to check that the bank, because commercial banks just don't work because people are afraid to go to work, they get money from machines, people's money, people's pensions, people's wages. I will now give the commission if there is a possibility of opening up the Savings Facility to quickly open it and make appropriate social payments. So by law, I ask you to support the temporary transferees in an editorial in which Irina Heraszczenko made comments, taking into account the government's proposals, that the government determines the amount of funding given the financial possibilities. What Sergey Terjochin said is absolutely right under article 14 of the law, and that the government determines the central authorities of the executive branch responsible for both the registration and the payment, as well as the work with the movers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask you to prepare for the vote, the secretariat, please announce everyone to the hall, responsible vote. I remind the People's Deputies that we will now vote in favour of the law (4490a-1): the internal displaced persons, taking into account those who are aligned with the professional committee and the government's rights, which the People's Deputy Heratchenko has called, and what the Prime Minister of Ukraine has said. Please, Your Honor, support the entire project 4490a-1. Please, please see, right now, 100 percent of the votes are going to be cast. Colleagues, please, let's be disciplined. Invite everyone to the hall, invite them to the hall. Why don't you come to the hall? In the October 14 edition, of course, this edition was given out, yes. Dear colleagues, please support me as a whole, taking into account the comments I have made. Please vote. [[12:28:52]] For-187 Dear colleagues, for 187. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 60, The Party of Regions refused to vote in favour of displaced persons – only 1 MP voted, 40 faction "AWARD", "Economic Development" – 5, "North European Ukraine" – 18, "Freedom" – 34, "MS" – 0, non-fractional – 29. Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues, we cannot vote in favour of amendments that we do not understand what they are talking about. What they said was that changing a paragraph like this to a point like this is nothing. Let us discuss the amendments, and we will be happy to vote in favour of the bill. And please insert the order of our Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u88	Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Heratchenko, she will comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the point is that there was no rule in that bill, which had passed all the committees of profile and received full support, including the Party of Regions and all the other political forces, that the financing of the internally displaced persons was determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's why they removed it. No, this defines the status, this defines how all of this money is accounted for. And the government will take it with its own decision, which it has already made. Look, what we're dealing with right now is that we're going to leave people out of status without solving their problems, or we're actually going to solve this. The law gives you that, and I guarantee you that. The question of not running 20 rounds of hell, getting proof that they're displaced; the question that from tomorrow on, literally the government is counting on them money that they can pay for renting housing; the question of deciding what they're getting for kindergartens, schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u90	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u91	Access to medicine. What have we removed from this law? Only what is likewise supported by international organizations and what the state cannot today guarantee, such as the decision to allocate land. I mean, in these matters, our respectable settlers are. have the same rights as other Ukrainian citizens. Of course, they can get land, but not by special procedure, but by other Ukrainian citizens. But there's a special procedure -- so that they can quickly get help, get a quick registration so that children can go to kindergartens so that they can go to school to get access to medicine. And I urge all of us to adopt this law. This will also help international organizations to get involved in Ukraine’s financial assistance in dealing with migration issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u92	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u93	The amendment to what we are throwing out — for example, article 9a — is a position that they can apply to local self-government authorities asking to allocate land at the expense of a target loan. Or the second amendment is completely technical, where we properly call the registration authority, because the government has actually already made a decision about this organ, and it's given him a decision there. They may refer as other citizens of Ukraine, but not by special procedure, but as others. Like us, all other Ukrainian citizens to the authorities of local self-government are in line. Well, in fact, we have to solve the migration issue today, it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Now I see a lot in our hands here, and once again, we're discussing this issue. Once again, I'm explaining that there's a lot of articles here, there's an 8-a, or here's an article by Irina Heratchenko that's being deleted. And technical questions, namely, replace the name "One State Register" with "One Information Database on Internally Moved Persons". Well, is that really the principle of voting? Please, Evening, National MP. Now, lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The Paccan bill needs to be supported in general today. Why? I recently returned from the Council of Europe, where there was a Council of Europe session and Council of Europe members also insisted on helping our displaced people in general, both inside and outside Ukraine. Alexander Valentinovich! There is a need for our settlers to put their shoes on, warm up, and make social housing, as in other countries, necessary, for everyone’s attention. And that's a very important question. And I ask Arsenia Petrovich to take control of this bill so that it can be implemented. Then the new deputies and new powers will have authority not only in Ukraine but also in the countries of the European Union. Please, all members of the people, there is no policy here. Here's the life of the people we have to be responsible for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u96	Please, the national deputy Voropeyev and the Prime Minister will comment on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! We don't hear Mrs. Heroshenko's turn. We hear her comment that her rights must be adopted, and what is the essence of the amendment (for a stenogram) as the law does not change that. Please read the transcript right away, and then we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u98	Prime Minister, Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I see that there is no understanding in the Parliamentary Hall. Once again, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. But I want to officially state to you that if the bill is not voted on, the rights of temporary displaced persons are all equally secured by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All three of our decisions have been made. The only thing you do not allow is further legalize the status of temporarily displaced persons. That's why there's a request. To go back to the bill, to vote in the paper that has been read, if something is not done in law, a new parliament will come -- subjecting it, waiting for a new parliament now for two months is too expensive for people. If you do not vote in favour of the law, the government officially declares that the rights of temporarily displaced persons are protected by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to register persons who have been temporarily transferred and to pay as well as on employment and on their social status. Thank you for your attention. I have to go to a meeting with the European Commissioner for Energy, that's why. Before we meet again, or we probably won't meet again, we'll meet with a new parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please let's put our hands down. The question about the rights, now the head of the profile committee is going to answer all these questions. I'm asking Valery Vasilovich Puckan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, we're excluding the item that was supposed to be given land and loans at the NBA account rate, we're shutting down, that's what this is all about. I am very much asking you not to speculate or transfer displaced persons into political agitation right now. Dear members of the Party of Regions! This is primarily the law that your electorate needs. And we ask you to support this legislative act. Please support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u102	Colleagues, let's vote. Please. I'm asking three factions, I'll give the word to the heads or representatives. And at that, we'll risk it. Please, Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u103	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! How does this law differ from today’s status? Under this law, we finally pass on all the rights that apply to registration, employment, preschool placement, school placement, what we've been doing so far, to the local level. When a village head, a village head, if he has displaced persons there -- these displaced persons -- he solves these issues on the spot, just like the head of a city or village -- it's very important what the government can't determine by decree. And the second. We had, had, had temporary registration status. This law introduces a permanent registration status so that the criminals, the daughters, the people who received this status do not have to run around the offices to get help again. That's why what Fatherland insisted on in this law is. We eventually went down to the level of people where they live and that's where it's going to be. So it is very important to reconcile this with Crimea, as they said.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. Colleagues, let's not lose the vote. Because you asked for an inheritance, we will not be able to make a decision. So please, come on. [[Noise Nodes]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u105	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm not talking to the government anymore, I'm talking to our colleague from the Party of Regions, who says they're willing to vote. Let's take this step that's completely logical to come out of your statements. Now let's get back to this issue, and if there are any issues, we'll be dealing with these issues in the process. Because what's happening right now is pharisaicism, it's really an audience game. It's really trying to show yourself and sell yourself before the elections. So if we're parliamentarians, we go back, we talk. And to pretend that we're fighting for human rights at a time when nothing really happens, because the law isn't even returned, well, I'm sorry -- it's already a game for people, for a picture -- a pharisaic. Let's go back, let's talk! It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Homutinnik, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u107	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! There's a procedure for adopting a bill, anyone. Now the head of the profiling committee has said in a responsible manner which needs to be amended. So in the paper proposed by the chairman of the committee, where land and positions on the National Bank will be removed, which have been bugged. We are ready to vote. But all the rest, what was proclaimed by the national deputy, Heratchenko, and the inexplicable points of change we will not support. Therefore, the proposal proposed by the committee head is supported. All the other issues that are technical disagreements there, give the task to the legal authority to correct them in the working order, the names of any institutions and so on. That's why we vote in this paper. So that it doesn't happen that we're going to accept the declaration and we're going to say in the election that we seem to have helped someone else, it's actually going to stay the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I think everyone has heard the offer. Let's go to the paper that the committee head suggested. The law of accounting, I understand, what they said in Crimea. In the October 14th edition, I remember this bill. The only thing I understand is that they say the proposal was for the National Deputy of the Homutinnik for technical and legal editing. Because changing the name, as it's called the register, is not a question, so I understand. This is supported, and so is the offer. So, honourable colleagues, please take these proposals into account to vote on the draft as proposed by the committee, with technical and legal editing as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'm sorry to come back. First, let's all go in, get ready to vote. Please put the cards in the right place and get them out of your pocket. And please, colleagues, support the proposal and return to question 4490a/1. Please vote. [[12:42:24]] For 247 Decision taken. Please, your fellow Members, without immediately relaxing, the offer to support the editorial that I was talking about so that I don't repeat this format, on the basis and in general. [[12:42:54]] For 249 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 62, 32 – Regions, Impact – 41, Economic Development – 29, 20 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, the deputies here who spoke, and the government, you saw, strongly supported the proposal for us to adopt the Heritage Law. But I have an appeal to all the national MPs, and I hope they're not responsible for the fact that we're about to vote for this law, and a lot of MPs have fled the hall to receive an inheritance. So please, colleagues, stay here until we consider all the planned issues. It's a requirement principle. Do We Agree? Please, the MP Mishchenko will report the law, but before that, we have to put it into the agenda. Let's vote. Please, colleagues, include a project (5141) to amend some Ukrainian legislation (for some matters of inheritance) in the agenda. First, add to the agenda to vote on. Please turn the "Council" system on for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:44:18]] For the 250. Decision taken. No discussion. Well, Sergey Mishchenk, let's give the author a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two minutes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No discussion? No discussion. Vote. We are voting without discussion on the basis and in general. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, stop, stop, stop, stop. I see. Minust, stop the vote. Stop. Okay. Let's do so, fellow Members, the next suggestion that we don't have to have volunteerism, then we don't have to vote on the law, I ask that we allow the author of the law to speak and allow the minister of justice to speak up and make a decision. Is there no objection? None. Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u109	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Honorable MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine, not the honourable ones who are blocking this bill so that it will enter into force. You now realize that this is the main fight against corruption because it's not the Mishchenka Heritage Act, it's that every month hundreds of millions of dollars will get, not the budget, but the valuers, the information centers for every help, notaries and so on, because for every house or apartment, 10,000 dollars. If for every land area 10,000 dollars, if for every pie 10,000 dollars. Here for everyone, maybe it's a penny, as some MPs tell me. It's not a problem, you go to the village and they'll tell you what the real problem is that you don't feel, you don't go to people, you're on lists. So I'm asking you a question, not in the Heritage Act, but in order to have it signed, because on May 29, 243 people's deputies have already accepted it. It's a repetition of his vote. And they don't send it for signature, they send another bill, Janukovich, not this bill. We now reaffirm this bill over and over again. And now we will demand that as soon as it is accepted, it be signed immediately by the Turk and sent immediately to the President to sign it. That's the main thing. And I'm grateful to Donya, to Zabolatny, to Catherine, to Lithuania, to Moschensky, to Rudzkowski, to all the others who helped me do it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, before the vote, I ask the Minister of Justice to give the floor. Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u111	Honorary colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice support the bill. The main point is that our citizens who live in rural areas really have the opportunity and help to form an inheritance. Therefore, the bill has been developed jointly with the authors on the committee, and it will work. It is essential that our rural and rural heads, and our community, who now resides in the territories, be aware that the village and village heads who care for their community, will send an authorized representative. He will receive an appropriate certificate, an internship, and will provide such services. In areas where local authorities do not benefit from this law, there will be no such services. Then we must make clear to our citizens right now that we are giving serious authority to the local authorities, but that is a serious responsibility. And local authorities should use it. At the same time, I would like to point out that the state notary system is still working. And our people have an alternative right: whether they go to the country council and form their right to an inheritance, or go to a non-state notary and get the right to an inheritance. Accordingly, we ensure the maximum constitutional rights of our citizens and give serious responsibility to the local authorities. Let them fulfill this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u112	So the Kabin is supporting on the basis and in general, I understand? Dear colleagues, if this law is passed without any change, as it is now proposed, I will sign it today and send it to the President's Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The draft Law 5141 on amending certain laws of Ukraine (for some matters of inheritance) is put to the vote. Please, colleagues, vote. Please, on the basis and in general. [[12:49:41]] For 254 I don't see how much "for." 254, I don't have any monitors. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. Colleagues, I'm the only one who's got my monitors down. I can't see. Parenthood is 60, I will dictate from the general screen, regions 34, impact 41, economic development 27, sovereign European Ukraine 20, Freedom 35, SMS 1, non-fractional 36. Thank you, Your Honor. Please have the Secretariat prepare a law to sign. Dear colleagues, the question that has been actively discussed only as promised. I'm talking to all the MPs, we're not breaking up, we're working on a very important issue -- inclusion in the agenda. One of them is the question of voting our military personnel. Please! Please! Before we bring this issue into the agenda, I would ask the authors of the law: the national deputy Zwania and the national deputy Yemeni. Please, David Vajajevic, two minutes before making the inclusion decision. Because I'm afraid we're going to blow the plug without giving the committee head a speech. Colleagues, let's not break up, the inheritance will wait! Please don't let the MPs go! Plus, we still have to adopt social laws. David Vajaevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, this is not the first time I've reported Bill 5157, I think it's the sixth time. And he's been on the Supreme Council site for months now. And unfortunately, we've never had a vote to basically do what's called the Zhuaniya bill. But it is a bill that is fully in line with the Central Election Commission, with all the subjects of the electoral process that is responsible. This is a collective effort. Excuse me, but I wouldn't have registered this bill myself, and I wouldn't have insisted on it. As far as the points are concerned, it fully duplicates the law that we passed without discussing the day before the presidential election. Today I realize that there is high tension because it is a parliamentary election and there are many thoughts. But I want to assure you that many standards have already been lost because the electoral process has begun. But the main points that remain and still are the time to accept, they allow for the security of elections in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. They allow military personnel in these territories to vote in order to be able to vote and vote on their preferences. There are also a few other items that allow you to save money, because you know how you made decisions hard to allocate funds for the elections, i.e. the bill is balanced. And once again, I emphasize that all the faction leaders have had the opportunity to discuss this bill many times at all possible meetings, and everyone has had the opportunity to read it on the Supreme Council site, and it's been there for at least a month. So, dear fellows, there's a huge request now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u114	Thank you, David Vajaevich. I think before the vote, we'll be able to listen to your corrections. Dear friends, I'm looking at the monitor: they promised to vote on the inheritance and everyone stays in the hall. Less than 20 national deputies have voted in the hall, 20 cards have already gone to rest – this is not right for our citizens. Please, Leonid Jemetz, before joining the agenda. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I have already reported on the substance of this bill, it refers solely to the right of military personnel who are now in the ATO zone and under the law in force do not have the opportunity to exercise the right to vote in person provided for in the Constitution. So my amendments to the Elections Act introduce such an opportunity for those boys who are protecting Ukraine today. The only thing I would like to do is to make a record of the rights proposed by the Freedom faction that changes to the electoral lists are made not on the day of the vote, but on the day before the vote. So any observations about the possibility of using these forgeries or carouseles, we're completely nullifying and erasing. In general, this bill refers exclusively to the ability of military personnel to vote in the order established by law and determined by the Central Electoral Commission. So I am very much asking all the MPs to support my bill, because that is why you will sound and realize the right of our boys who defend the Ukrainian people to vote and choose the composition of the Supreme Council that they consider necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I are now in order to consider these issues, we need to put in the order of the day, our colleagues, in the order of the day, and then sign up for the performance. People's deputies please take their seats. Let me remind you, these are two alternative laws, 5157 and 5157-1. Both laws change the electoral legislation of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, in order to determine which law the Parliament supports, please include them in the order of the day of our session. Please, colleagues, vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. Turn-on. [[12:56:20]] For 186 The decision is not taken. By factions, please 47 is Fatherland. I don't understand what the reason is for this vote. Region Party only 4, Impact – 38, 26 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 11.34 – Freedom, MS – 0, non-fractional – 26. Please, Sobolev, do we have a faction manager? Turn on the microphone, why the faction doesn't vote. Turn on the mic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u117	Sobolje, Fatherland. We have a clear position, for any bill that provides for an end to the bill, to pay off the ballots, which is clearly in the bill that Zvania reported. As far as not counting votes per box is concerned, we will not vote for such bills. Whoever wants to vote, we've already done this under Yanukovich's regime, and that is why we don't support any possibility of falsifying the Elections Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u118	Colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we voted for the inclusion of two laws. In the second law reported by the Yemeni national deputy, there are no ballots, no ballots, there are boxes, no boxes, and so on. I mean, it's a proposition separately for each vote, right? Okay, I heard. Allow me, please, to the author of the law of Zwania, and I ask the representative of the President to speak before the vote. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Zwania.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u119	Thank you. I want a replica of the head of the Fatherland faction, no counterfeiting is planned in the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. This is the Central Electoral Commission's requirement for security because it's very difficult to secure elections. And these are not requirements from MPs, not from authors, but from the Central Election Commission, which were incorporated into the law. You have representatives on the Central Electoral Commission, decisions and requests are collegiate, they take part in their meetings. If you have any comments, then contact your representatives at the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u120	Please turn on the microphone of the President's Representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u121	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! If the only problem is that someone is concerned about the so-called billing, because I'm just paying attention to the fact that these are ballot papers that can't be delivered to certain one-man election districts. And now the law just doesn't know what to do with them. And you have to either settle this question, or you have to understand that we're deliberately creating a situation where a certain number of ballots are going to go around and we don't know how they're going to go away. But if the problem is whether or not there is something in the box, let us include these issues in the first reading, and in general vote against the proposals that have just been announced. No one would object to this norm being applied exclusively to districts in Donetsk, Luhansk region. And the problem is, the problem is that at any rate someone doesn't want all of these procedures to be normalized in this law, but just in case there's a laziness left to influence the outcome of the election, it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! In order for us to make corrections to any law, we need to include them in the order of the day. Without it, we can neither change nor adjust. So, your honors, I ask that there be no speeches here, that it's not like it or not like it, and then I put each of these laws separately on the agenda. Therefore, my dear colleagues, the first of my registrations, I put the draft law (5157) of the national deputy of Zhuvania. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:00:41]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The next law, the honourable colleagues, is the law of the national deputy of Yemen, and it is exclusively about the military. We owe them the right to vote. — 5157-1. Please, colleagues, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please vote. All of you please, Your Honor, vote. [[13:01:19]] For 171 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 49 is Fatherland. I don't understand, colleagues, it's purely military personnel, exclusively military personnel. Regional Party – 0, Impact – 40, Economic Development – 18, 10 – Sovereign European Ukraine – 19, Freedom – 35. Thank you, colleagues. "For Peace and Stability" is 0. I want to say that two factions are voting in full for this issue because. "Blow" and "Freedom." [[Applause]] Because, colleagues, this is a question: the vote of the military, it is our duty, after all, to allow every member of any faction -- to give those who defend, risk or risk their lives, their health to Ukraine -- the opportunity to vote. They have more of us together to choose the next Supreme Council. [[Applause]] So, dear colleagues, I would like to re-establish a project that has more votes for inclusion in the agenda (5157-1). Please, colleagues, back up. We're going to print everyone who doesn't want to do that. The author is Jemec Leonid Alexandrovich. Please, colleagues, support this project by including it in the agenda. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:02:52]] For-183 The decision is not taken. The factions. 52 – "The Fatherland", The Party of the Regions – 0.40 – "The Impact", "The Economic Development" – 19, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 17.35 – "Freedom", "The Press" – 0, non-fractional – 20. Please, the author of the law of Yemen. I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! It has already been said that this bill is about the right of those people who are now risking their health so that we can build a normal European state. And today we only give them the right, as provided for in the Constitution, to vote in these elections for those parliamentarians they want to see in the next Parliament. Mr. Head, I have a huge request to give the floor to representatives of those factions who did not vote. Let them explain to all the Ukrainian people and the military who are now on the border of the Ukrainian State why they did not vote on what their reasons are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u124	Thank you. I agree, Your Honor. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Why doesn't part of the faction vote? What are the reasons? Explain, please. Peaceable, national MP, please. I'll give you my word. Out of place, we're wasting our time. My colleagues, I have a serious problem. Now I'm looking in the hall, getting cards and hiding them in my pocket. Colleagues, insert the cards, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u125	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Look what's happening right now! You are depriving (those who do not vote) of the ability of people who, with weapons in their hands, protect our country from the aggressors, do not vote! I'll tell you what's gonna happen next. These men with guns in their hands will come here and vote! They will exercise their constitutional right. And what they're going to do is they're going to write everybody who doesn't vote, well, I'm sorry. The garbage cans, it'll seem like a paradise place. What are you doing? Turn your head on at least. There's a self-preservation instinct, isn't there? "Freedom" tells you, you're not going to do these things, you're going to get the third Maidan. And we're not going to let you take away from our boys the opportunity to give your vote for those or others they consider necessary. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u126	Rudzkowski, national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! I think we need to compromise. I see that now, part of the MPs, they don't want to vote in favour of this law, referring to the fact that military personnel in the eastern areas don't live in these areas all the time. But, dear fellows, we have previously analyzed and allowed at least the right to vote for the parties. But I'm convinced that, Alexander Valentinovich, we need a representative of every faction, let him perform. We need to compromise today so that we can give people who defend the peaceful right of choice for most Ukrainian citizens throughout Ukraine to express their position in the elections. Every citizen of Ukraine must have the right to participate in the elections. That's what the Constitution says, and we have to, MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Pashinski, National MP. I'll give, I'll see two hands, I'll let you speak. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u129	Dear friends! When you look at our electoral rhetoric with you, there's probably no more patriots and greater defenders of the country than there is in Ukraine. The point is that 50,000 guys with guns in their hands are protecting our independence. And it's not a loud word, it protects every day and every minute. And the point is that we are obliged to give them the right to vote. I'm talking to my colleagues at the Motherland Party, who are so sincere about protecting our country. Boys, put your cards back on and let real soldiers vote for their future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u130	Please, Lady People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Those who do not vote in favour of the right to vote in the elections of our country’s military forces do so immorally, do so irresponsibly. People there give their lives for you to sit in this room. And you have the nerve to deprive these people of their right to vote. Do not do immoral things. Today the whole country is watching. The men of the army who feed in the trenches of the lice, you don't give them a bushel, you don't give them bourgeois, you don't give them a normal weapon, and you want them to lose their vote. Guys! Are you out of your mind? Did the roof move? That is why I support the head of the Supreme Council of Turkey, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander, close the door and don't let anyone out until they vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Kaplan's People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u133	I want to go public on the cameras now to the leader of the Fatherland of Julius Volodymyrovni Timoshenko, who spends all his time on a talk show and spends hours on live air talking about love for the country, for the soldiers. Call your deputies who are still in the House of Parliament, let them support Ukrainian soldiers, let them have their constitutional right to vote for that political power or any other candidate. They have more to do with it than any Ukrainian citizen. They today advocate the best interests of our country, integrity. Please, this is my request to you, order your faction to restore the Constitution and the rights. And the second. Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Labunsky, the national MP, and we'll make decisions. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u135	Alexander Valentine's Day, I want to address everyone who needs to adopt this law, but to clear up the rule that allows for a majority vote. You don't have to risk our boys to protect the country in the West today. They were forced to vote for one person or another. This is a 12th year decision. In fact, it's a matter of voting in a state-wide district and we don't have the right to leave until we vote, but to clear up the majority candidate in these districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u136	Dear colleagues! I beg you, let's put our hands down, let's try to vote now. I'm asking you to insert your cards, please, Your Honor. And I am very, you know, sad that you agreed: we are voting an inheritance, no one is divorcing, 30 people have left the hall. I'll tell you what. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote now. Take your seats. As for the observation of the people's representative of Labunsk: we can do this, but after we've been placed in the agenda. You know, we can't even put the law in the agenda. Of course, those who have not come today to work in parliament are the first ones to break the vote in favour of this law. But there are those in the hall who are not voting. So, your honorary colleagues, I warn you, this will also now be fixed, the voting marks and the names of those who do not vote in favour of this law will also be printed and informed by all the society on this issue. Please prepare for the vote. [[Noise Nodes]] Please. The German law is 5157-1. I gave Sobolje his word, he gave up his word. On the election of Ukrainian national deputies to ensure the implementation of constitutional electoral rights. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! I'll do it again. David Vajayevich, I will also lay down your law now, and I will lay down your law. They demand that each member vote individually.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u137	Emca law. One piece of law you need.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u138	Colleagues, colleagues! All right, guys, let's do it again. Please calm down. [[Noise Nodes]] Oh. I'll give you a vote, you'll comment on your vote. Please. Dear colleagues, David Vazievich insists that his law be included in the order of the day, I too will put it. Honorary colleagues, in line with the CLTC bill, which was drafted by the PIC, 5157. David Vazievich reported. Please, colleagues, back up. He is also in harmony. But if you don't put it in the agenda, the changes you're talking about can't be made. Thus, each law is again voted on separately. And I mean, dear colleagues, I'm not going to close the door, force you to vote. Then we'll look our military in the eye and explain to them why we didn't vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare for the vote, get everyone to the session room. The first one is Law 5157, the author is David Vajaevich Zwania. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[13:13:36]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now, David Vajajevic, we're voting, calm down. 31 – "Paternity", Regions – 5, "BRA" – 39, 27 – "Economic development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 9.0 – "Freedom" – 0 – non-fractional – 27. The following law is written by Jemetz Leonid Alexandrovich. Draft Act on Amendments. in the Act on the Election of People's Deputies to Ensure the Implementation of Constitutional Election Rights of Counter-Terrorism Participants in the Extra-Trial Elections of People's Deputies. Colleagues, you have understood the question of voting our military. There are no other issues in this law. Please be supportive. This is fundamentally important our position on this issue is 5157-1. Please, colleagues, support inclusion in the agenda. Integrating in the daytime, please support, colleagues. [[13:14:43]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 54 – Fatherland, Region 3, Impact – 40, 24 – Economic Development, 20 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional – 26. I have promised, please, that Kugel will explain why the Half Faction of the Fatherland does not vote in favour of this law. Please. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u139	Card inserted. Take it easy. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I would like to emphasize what we need to do by using these existing laws, and not translate the disease with one head into another. To this day all military personnel in the ATO have, if they are from the Ministry of Defense, either from Nachwardia, or battalions working with Nachwardia and the Ministry of Defense, military tickets. According to Ukrainian legislation, it would have been possible if it had been a wish not to organize carousels before the elections, as they are being held today, but to organise the actual vote of the military, please, for another week. We want to know that there's a census. Who will show this information? You're going to the post block, you're going to say a thousand of our military personnel, they're going to throw in a vote. And there's 100 guys out there and no one wants to take them out. And no winter clothes yet. And that's why we don't have to cover it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u140	I see. Dear colleagues, we can try again. David Vazievich asks. I will now give Viacheslav Kirilenko after the national deputy of Zhuaniya. Turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Zhuvania. David Vajaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, today I am very sorry that there is speculation on this law. The law was aligned, once again emphasized, with the electoral commission central, with the Ministry of Defence, with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The bill was discussed twice on the Supreme Council Committee. He is in harmony. If there are any proposals, such as the German bill, he wasn't considered on the committee, he's part of a balanced bill that can actually ensure the proper conduct of the elections. It's just political speculation. If we want to solve the issue professionally, let us vote on the bill that is proposed and called the Zwania Bill. He's not my bill. As head of the committee, I signed it. It's all agreed, and today we have to stop this speculation, we have to make a decision to hold the elections. If anyone wants to fight, find another subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u142	Colleagues, David Vajajevic, I support your law and vote for it. But when we have 130 votes, I don't see a mechanism to do 226. At the same time, the law of Yemen had a maximum number of votes -- over 200. I ask you, Your Honor, once again, let Viacheslav Kirilenko speak and we will try to return to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Well, when you talk to the guys in the ATO zone two days ago for the last time. At least I had a conversation, a social and military problem that they're upsetting everyone. But the last sentence is always, "Well, can we at least vote here?".. Under Mariupol and under Volnovah are our boys - the Armed Forces of Ukraine, they have this issue, including those mobilized by our decisions. So I have my first remark. Clearly, part five, the entire fifth column, will be against the law of the German, because they do not like the Ukrainian troops in the Ukrainian territory as a phenomenon. And they don't want to see them at all, and they don't want to be allowed to vote. But I don't understand part of my colleagues on Maidan. I mean, what you're saying is that these guys are now. Those with weapons in their hands protect Ukraine are such a material for manipulation. Some boss comes in and says to them, "You're not military here, you're administrative and vote for who we're going to show you." Can you imagine that now? That's impossible. It's not the army anymore. That's why I'm calling a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u144	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u145	That is why I call upon my colleagues, after the distinguished faction of Fatherland, to support Bill 5157-1, introduced by our fellow MP Yemen, which relates to the right to the election of our military personnel, which is an army, not an administrative resource. Think about it when you don't press the button again. Please support! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u146	Thank you for the constructive presentation. Dear colleagues, come on, we're already on the scene, everybody said. Please, colleagues, in view of the fact that Leonid Hamtz’s law has obtained the maximum number of votes but is not supported. Please, colleagues, let's go now. Well, frankly, we will still allow our military to carry out their constitutional duty, their constitutional right. Their responsibility in protecting the country is done by giving up their lives for our country. Let's give them a chance to vote. Yes, in difficult circumstances. But they have a right to choose, and this right we must ensure. More importantly, I would like to emphasize once again, before all of us are taken together, they have this right. Please, colleagues, for the last time, I'm putting a vote on the day-to-day project 5157-1. Please, colleagues, vote for its inclusion. The vote is fixed. Please, vote. [[13:21:02]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Paternal Development" -- 56 -- actually, that's what's left of it, the Party of Regions -- 2.40 -- Impact, "Economic Development" -- 29.20 -- "Sovereign European Ukraine", "Freedom" -- 35. All those who did not vote will be printed and published with appropriate party names. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u147	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u148	Alexander Valentinovich, we actually have the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other powerful structures separate from politics. But it's very fashionable for everyone to wear camouflage and go to the ATO area to talk about how they support it. Can we ask today of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ask the minister of defense of Poltorak, the minister of internal affairs of Habakkuk to provide information as to which factions have voted, whether they have enabled our soldiers today to carry out their civil debt and vote. What's more, I want to remind you that we have some factions here saying that they have their battalions in the ATO zone, their military. Then let them vote. Are these battalions on paper alone? We ask our faction to return to this question and still give our soldiers the opportunity that today really have problems with the winter clothes that the authorities have to solve. But it is the task of the authorities and parliament to enable them to carry out their civic duty and to participate in the elections to say yes to someone and not to anyone in these elections. Please return to this last question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u149	Please turn on Irina Lucenko's microphone. And then there's Mikoli Catherinechuku. And we'll make decisions. Turn on the microphone. Please turn on Mikoli Catherinechuk’s microphone while you are going to the rostrum. Mikola Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u150	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this is now about democratic elections, the first democratic elections since the collapse of the Yanukovich regime. And it's not going to be clear if we don't listen to the President's representative in the House of Knazevitch, who tells us that if we don't set up a procedure for paying off ballots, we're going to have 3 million ballots walking around the country. We have to put them out, that's the first. The other one. Today we have no right not to vote on the issue of our guys in the ATO. Well, it feels like protecting the country, like fighting there, risking our lives, we give them the right, and we can't give them the right to vote on the basis of that law. So this is a fundamental question, Alexander Valentine's Day, and I'd like us, if there's no consensus, to take the German bill, to put it there, but we have to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u151	Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u152	Dear People's Deputies, I would like to address, first of all, the Fatherland faction, Sergey Pashinsky has advised me to speak. Look, I've got my son for three weeks under the Donetsk airport, he's running the hood, there's 20 people under his command. He was in charge, in fact he wasn't supposed to go to the ATO. He had a thyroid removed in 2007 and actually had a group II disability. The child went to the military five times, five times asking the director of the medical commission and the chief physician to sign the application. It can't be affected, just like these 50,000 guys who are mostly volunteers there, it's one thing. I don't know what I'm gonna tell him. He writes to me five days later, when they're being taken away from the Donetsk airport, he writes to me, "Mom, it's okay, I sleep in my vest and bone under my hood," and so on. That's the first one. The other one. We were, uh, three deputies, Masha Ionov and Ira Heratchenko, and I was under Mariupol, watching those landmen defend themselves now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u154	There's a very important general who needs to take off his hat as he takes care of our army. So he said two key phrases that you should hear: "The trenches of the Kiev are better visible than those of the Crusader." [[Applause]] Believe me, they see all those guys, they know everything, they'll come back. They have the right to give up their lives and souls every day there, the soul, they shout at night, they cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u155	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the last time I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day project, which has received the maximum number of votes. My colleagues, please don't take your card, but insert your cards, please, I'm looking at the monitor. Please, colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda, for the last time, I put and print all the votes that were. 5157-1, the law that received the maximum number of votes, please support. Colleagues, I'll see the inclusion and I'll turn it on. In order to do that, you can make changes on the ballots, all of it, but first of all, there's no such thing in this law at all. Do you want to turn it on? Let's do it. But the question is, we can't get into the agenda, we can't look at it. How can we right now the law or the law? I've explained it a hundred times. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, please! And the national deputy Heller, too, who is floating in this region, please vote! Please support the inclusion in the agenda 5157-1. Please vote. [[13:27:37]] For 214 The decision is not taken. By factions, please 60 – Fatherland – Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 41, 29 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, Freedom – 35, Peace and Stability – 0, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, there's another law I can't help but put to the vote. I realize that there is no chance of accepting it, but I am obliged, morally, to put it to the vote. Because there was a turnout for the battalions in the ATO zone. As for the decision-making process, they were addressing the President, but I think that Parliament can also say its word here about banning the broadcast of heroic shows about invaders and criminals who invaded the territory of Ukraine, or Russian serials. Please, Your Honor, put 5036 in the order of the day, the author of the national deputy Kirilenko and other national MPs. And I understand that there will also be a request to include the Prince's microphone, an alternative law. Now, I'll give you a chance. Turn on the mic with the princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u156	Alexander Valentine's Day, it's not an alternative law, it's been registered before, it's just about not just television, it's about cinema, it's Bill 4443a, and it's about not just banning it, it's about responsibility for who's going to break it, and it's clearly writing the criteria for broadcasting movies and aggressor shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u157	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u158	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich, we insist that our joint law with Alexander the Peace Bill be included, which defines the national audiovisual product, Bill 4143. In our view, it is more complete, it clearly regulates what a domestic series is, what a national audiovisual product is. The warning is very simple. Much of the so - called Russian series is being filmed in Ukraine and they're coming under the definition of our series. Of course, there are certain topics that are prescribed and that prohibit the use of these shows on Ukrainian television. But Bill 4143 very clearly regulates the use of such products, the number of them on the air, not only on television, but also on radio. I strongly urge that this bill also be put into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, before the vote of the author of the law, Kirilenko Viacheslav, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u160	Thank you. Colleagues are right that there are no limits to perfection, but Tomenko and I have the simplest bill both for perception and for acceptance. First of all, it only aims at films that have been made since August 24, 1991. I mean, it doesn't hit these Soviet shows that don't have the anti - Ukrainian propaganda that Russia is doing right now. Secondly, this does not apply to all the Russian shows, but only to those where among the main heroes the Russian FSB associates, the Russian militia and the Russian military. So we're fighting and at the same time we're offering those who are fighting with us, the aggressors. That is why we must now accept at least in the first reading. And thirdly, the bill imposes a ban on the broadcast of such Russian shows, temporarily, in our paper by 31 March next year, it is so that there is no unnecessary scream that is already rising around this. And this will stimulate the release of our series on ATO fighters, not Russian mints and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-20-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Next, I see on the monitor, and I find that the number of national MPs is declining very quickly. You can actually see on the left side of the hall there's virtually no MP left, where there's a Party of Regions, where the Communists were sitting, and so on. I see. One MP, I see who's watching the process. Now we're going to see on the monitor, as much as they vote, unfortunately, the number of other factions is decreasing, so I'm going to put it to a vote once, please mobilize. Every law that has been named that regulates this issue – 5036, 4443a and 4143a – on inclusion in the agenda. First law, author of Kirilenko-Tomenko (5036), draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act (on the protection of the interests of the State). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please, all of you, hold it together. Let's press. [[13:32:44]] For 165 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 54 – "The Fatherland", "the Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 33, "The Economic Development" – 8, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 12, "Freedom" – 35, "For Peace and Stability" – 0, non-fractional – 23. Next project, 4443a please, colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda. Presents the author of the Law as the People's Deputy of the Prince. Please support inclusion. [[13:33:30.]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Next question. The factions, please. 56 – "The Fatherland", "Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 35, 12 – "Economic Development", 13 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", "For Peace and Stability" – 0, non-fractional – 21. And the last law to be introduced into the agenda on this issue (4143). I understand that, author Miroshnichenko, because I have no control over this law. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. [[13:34:13]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 49 – "Paternity", "Regions" – 0, "PART" – 34, "Economic Development" – 11, 12 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, I ask you to put your hands down, and I will explain why. Because while I was voting this question, those who don't want to protect our information space from invaders from the Russian Federation have already left the room. And colleagues, we have now, as we voted, fewer than 226 people. Suggestions, colleagues, when I don't have 226 votes in my room, I don't take it. So, colleagues, I'm back. Can't you hear me? Calm down, please. So, dear colleagues, I hope that the next Parliament will adopt these laws that are important to the country. And today's session is closed, good-bye. All those who did not vote in favour of Ukrainian patriotic laws, who broke the vote for the right of the military, will be informed. A society will be informed, and these names will be printed in the media. We're going to ask the Central Electoral Commission to look at how they can actually try to ensure the electoral rights of our military. Good-bye, dear fellows.
