ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u1	Kiev time is 16 hours. We begin an evening session of Parliament, but unfortunately not all deputies look at the clock and carry out their constitutional duties. I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement so everyone can come into the session room. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand that we have now spoken to the MPs and factions that we need to re-vote the budget changes in connection with the elections. And we have it. That's why it's so obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u2	In general, what about the illustration? Dear colleagues, I ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups to work on the discipline of their factions, because I see on the monitor that we do not have enough people to be able to work in Parliament at all. Please, Secretariat, make an announcement so that they can enter the hall immediately. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Let us test the readiness of the Supreme Council to make responsible decisions. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[16:03:00]] There are 242 national deputies registered in the hall. We continue our work. It is proposed to consider, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine regarding the fight against terrorism. People's deputy Kaplan, you know, has reported this law several times. But the Supreme Council does not make decisions about its inclusion. Do we have a national MP, Caplin? I won't. We're taking down the bill. Turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Karpunts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u3	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Let's be honest: now we're not 242 deputies, we're 242 cards. Part of the deputies are registered on the tables right now. My great request, a very important bill drafted by Kaplin, along with the Ukrainian Security Service. Let's not rush into a delay, let's go back to it a little bit later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u4	But we're making a note of the people's deputy Kaplan, who doesn't come to the session room at the right time. Dear colleagues, next question. This is a bill on temporary measures for the duration of an anti-terror operation. Is Alexander Volodymyrna in our room? Yes. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna, come to the rostrum. Let me remind you, this law and further laws will be considered in the first reading. The only colleagues I'm asking you to mobilize now. And let's support the simplified procedure for addressing all the issues in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, let's all press the buttons together so that all of us can see the laws. I understand. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you for a brief procedure. It's just everybody's vote, and it's non-fractional. [[16:05:25]] For-138 The decision is not taken. "For" is 138 votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, dear fellows. Come on, Alexandra Volodymyrna, let's put together a short-term vote. My colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, we've got a full day's work today. During the morning session, we made decisions with you quite effectively. I hope that even now we will work with you professionally enough to fulfill our constitutional responsibilities. Please, Your Honor, that we may be able to consider all the laws that are now included in the agenda. Please support the proposal to review the bills of all in the first reading by means of a reduced procedure. I'd like your support, Your Honor. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[16:06:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you. Alexandra Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u5	Thank you, Mr. Head. It's a very important bill, but unfortunately we're forced to adopt these bills that would automatically work if a military state were introduced. This bill has been drafted (many national deputies have participated in it) to require all associations of entrepreneurs, not only the ATO zones, but also the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Agrarian Association, and the Governor of Donetské and the Governor participated. and the responsibilities of the Luhansk region. On temporary measures for the duration of an anti-terror operation. What does he predict? What is the anti-terrorist territory and the operation according to the decree? It provides a moratorium on the billing of pennies and fines on the principal amount of the loan debt. I'm asking you to have a stenographer. Article 2 adds, as suggested by these associations: “Subjects of tenure, legal persons who are in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation during the period of an anti-terrorist operation, to cancel the fine and fines that were accrued during the period of such an operation, on the basis of the principal amount of the loan debt.” Article 3. We offer a moratorium on the conduct of tests. Today, the government has taken a decision and we are making this situation. In the territory of an anti-terror operation, they're still walking and checking and they're taking documents. Article 4 is very important. She predicts that if an entrepreneur leaves Donetsk right now and stops at Vinnice, either in Chercas, or in Chernigov. Registration services don't allow him to work, he needs to show him a permanent place to live, and he doesn't have one. And we give him the right, according to this norm, to register him at a temporary residence or simply to indicate where he is found. And most of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u6	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u7	Conduct. Listen carefully! Conducting registrations related to a change in the composition of the founders and the head of the legal entity whose location is the territory of the antiterrorist operation. Because today they are taking hostages and sending their family to redo the business for another person. Exemption from payment of land use in public utilities Because today we're paying for a land where the operation is anti-terrorist, business can't. And the cancellation of rent for the use of state utility property. Because when this property is no longer available and there is no possibility of breaking the contract, stop the anti-terrorist operation until the end. Most importantly, in the End Positions, we grant the Chamber of Commerce the right to use the understanding of force majeure and to issue certificates of appeal to entrepreneurs and those who work with entrepreneurs in the ATO territory and to instruct the National Bank to bring its normative acts into line with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u8	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? Yes. Please sign up for the discussion. People's Deputy Leonov, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u9	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u10	Please turn on the microphone of People's Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u11	Alexei Furman, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable society is, unfortunately, one of the few positive laws that we need to adopt in the ATO area. The essence of the law is that an entrepreneur can make changes to registration in any part of Ukraine. This will allow them not to cut down, it will allow them to work, it will enable them to keep jobs. The example of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea has shown us that we have also allowed the registration of changes to be made in Ukraine and thus preserved the business of these people. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will act unequivocally for the adoption of this law, because it is positive for the preservation of the economy, for the preservation of Ukraine's sovereignty and integrity. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u12	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u13	Let me literally for a second, I forgot to say about article 5, that all documents of a permissive nature on all ATO enterprises continue automatically. Licenses, licenses and stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u14	People's deputy Glazunov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u15	I'm asking you to give the floor to the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u16	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u17	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! A very good question, a very good bill, a very difficult time for both the population and the enterprises in the ATO area. And many of the controlling and tax authorities are operating on the old algorithm. Therefore, the bill needs to be supported on a basis, processed for second reading, and then adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u18	Palamarczuk, National Deputy, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u19	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u20	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u21	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill really, really needs business today and the Ukrainian economy, and all those people who are suffering today from terrorist acts by the Russian Federation in the territory of Donbas. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this project without adoption at the same time 4295, a bill that was introduced earlier, will not allow for the release of entrepreneurs who are currently unable to work, who have not worked, from the sole social contribution. So I ask you very much to put to the consideration of the 4295 Supreme Council or to put the vote on the second reading of these two bills together. In addition, the fifth article of the bill provides for the extension of permits, but at the same time, no amendments are made to the Law on Allowances. So I'm very much talking to both the author and the committee, in the Final Positions, to predict changes that are consistent with the profile law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u22	Thank you. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u23	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I think we should support colleague Kugel Alexander Volodymyryn in this legislative initiative. She listed several pieces of legislation. I'd like to pay attention, first of all, to two very important, like me, novices. The first is that the Sales colleague has just started to say that this bill or law, I hope, will be automatically, I emphasize, automatically continuing to be allowed to engage in entrepreneurial activities. Ladies and gentlemen, let's imagine what the situation is. If there are those people in these conditions, under ATO, they can or have the opportunity to continue their entrepreneurial activities, it is clear that they need to be supported. Because there's some kind of economic activity going on there. And a very important point is another one that concerns simplifying the process of getting documents to confirm force majeure. What's the situation if it's not force majeure? Of course, you don't have to prove it, prove it in ATO force majeure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u24	I've got the position. Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Minister Fudashkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u25	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! While supporting in general the purpose of solving the problems that are now, it should be noted that this law needs substantial work. For example, there is no link between the possibility of servicing loans and the end of commitments. and the ability of the taxpayer to fulfil these obligations. the debtor in front of the banks. And that's why this is a question that needs to be clarified. In addition, the bill proposes automatic extension of all permits if the activity is carried out in the ATO zone. But in Ukraine, extraterritorial business management and any permit document issued in Ukraine is extended to all activities throughout Ukraine. Thus, even if the subject was partially active in the relevant territory, in accordance with the rules of this law, no matter where he is registered, such permits will continue automatically. So in our view, the bill requires substantial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u26	Let me give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u27	Alexander Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u28	I'll give you an answer. Thank you very much. Mr. Fudashkin has now shown his professional inadequacy by this presentation. And I think the Supreme Council should turn to the Minister of Finance for his release. First of all, the issuing of permits. Ask Mr. Zweigilski or call other chemical companies in Donetsk, where they get licenses where they get permits. We did this by putting it down and voting this Petrenko bill, you don't have the information. Now read the law. Today, ask the guys from Donetsk and Lugansk: banks don't work, deposits don't work, accounts don't work, banks don't work, they don't do credits. We're talking about that the amount of credit doesn't change, but if you're not physically there, you don't get paid, you don't issue anything, you don't have banks. How do you want to leave them the right to pay fines and pennies in such trouble?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u29	Please, Alexandra, take your seat. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please calm down, please. Alexander Mirny, please. "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u30	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! I still think that this bill is serious enough for us to afford emotion. And so an example of today's cooperation between government and parliament shows that we can and should find common ground on the issues that concern us. Of course, the bill is absolutely correct, but there is a first reading, there is a second reading. I would like to remind the government's distinguished representatives that there is an opportunity to make comments and suggestions. And if they're right, we'll count them. But to say that we can't make a bill like that, it's totally wrong, because there's a conflict that's happening right now in our country. Our laws are written for peacetime, not wartime. Therefore, we accept the first reading. The only vote, please. Alexander Valentinovich, there are no people in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u31	People's deputy Easy, respected colleagues, and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday I received a call from Sergey Shakun, a representative of the ATO in North London, who was freed from Russian occupation. North Indonesian people who return to the city are tax-paying. And in order for them to prove that they have force majeure, in order not to pay fines, they have to get help in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where they can pay two thousand dollars to prove that they're in North London when it was occupied by Russian terrorists, that they didn't have the opportunity to do business. For a small entrepreneur, two thousand dollars is a lot of money. And more to follow the guidance in Kiev! So I think that the bill that Alexander Kugel reported should be supported by both the small and the medium-sized business that was deprived of the ability to earn, pay taxes, get rid of pennies, fines, and so on. And don't make people go to the Chamber of Commerce for help and pay thousands of dollars for this. People need to be able to earn and recover.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to make decisions. The only one. Colleagues, take your seats. I'm drawing your attention to Oksana's performance. She said that in order for the law to work, however, it was necessary either in the Transitional Statutes or to include in this law the positions of Law 4295 relating to amendments to the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u34	It's in the next law. Okay. Then in the next law we are. Colleagues, okay, let us make a decision on this matter. Please, dear fellows, let's take our seats. I see that we have enough people, in principle, to make decisions, the only one that everyone can vote on. I'm asking representatives from Donetsk and Lugansk. Colleagues, I'd like you to support this law, too, because these are your constituents. Please let us now vote in favour of him. Please support the draft Law on Temporary Measures for the duration of an antiterrorist operation (registration number 4313a). Please, there was a proposal for a basis, that is, in the first reading. Please vote all, Your Honor. Please vote. [[16:22:20]] For 257 Decision taken, thank you. Can we vote on a reduced procedure? Come on, fellows of honor. Dear colleagues, there was a suggestion that we should work on it, come on. We're better. Colleagues, we will then make changes to the law, or the President will. So I'm asking you, we'd better prepare him for the second reading. Please support the simplified procedure in preparing this law for second reading. Please vote. [[16:23:03]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is also related to this bloc of serious problems. Alexandra Volodymyr, please. For the protocol: 4314a is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (temporary measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u35	Once again for the transcript, I want to say that in that first-reading bill we include the amendment of Oxana Prodan, which is CB, and this bill continues and implements the Ukrainian Rules of Procedure of those issues that we have adopted: making changes to the Tax Code. The first item suggests that if an entrepreneur today wants to exit a simplified system of taxation or switch to a general tax system, this procedure is simplified. Because today all entrepreneurs working on a simplified tax system in Donetsk and Lugansk are required to pay taxes in advance every month, and you realize that there are no businesses, no markets, no shops, no studios, no barbershops, nothing works. And the second point that I understand is that not only Fudashkin is going to jump up here, we're saying that for a period of anti-terrorist operation for tax payers, the next period that begins after the end of the anti-terrorist operation is determined. I offered to give the opportunity to rebuild the business -- 365 days, there might be a conversation here, but I don't believe that as long as the enterprises that are destroyed, people will rebuild, maybe a small business earlier, we can talk about a date here. For the transcript, I want to complement what I got from the agrarians with a new paragraph of article 2: Penny and fines and financial sanctions that have arisen during the period and in the territory of the ATO, well I'm just short of reading, identifying them as hopeless and subject to write-off in the order envisaged by the Ukrainian Tax Code to write off a hopeless tax debt. And, carefully, the following part: "Contragents operating in the territory of an anti-terror operation have the right to carry out tax consignments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u36	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u37	the acquisition of goods, services and complaints in accordance with article 201, paragraph 201, of the Ukrainian Tax Code." Such a right is reserved for them. They also wrote, 365 days after the end. You can talk here, too. What does that mean? If your company puts food there, who will write you a tax note? Or maybe you brought gas, nobody's gonna give you a tax return. But you have the right to hand it over, and then already, because this is the ATO period. That's the whole point of the bill. I believe in your wisdom. Let's support business.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please sign up for the discussion. I'll give you a chance to finish. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u39	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u40	Turn on Michael Blavajko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u41	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This bill can actually be useful. Because it can be passed on and our entrepreneurs can be given the opportunity. But I would just like to say that these should be companies that actually paid taxes. These should be good - conscienceed structures, which also did not have any abuse or gross tax evasion. We all know that in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk it's beech clondayke, a nursery for enterprises like cigarette manufacturing, like the production of counterfeit vodka. And this, if we're still under these poor entrepreneurs today and we're going to give them the opportunity not to pay taxes, they're just going to start developing these businesses in Central or Western Ukraine. So it should be used, too, to see, to study the situation, let us have the D.A.'s office, let me do the tax. In fact, the tax is already new to do the cleaning. And we, when we do the cleaning, then we can actually show what businesses, which are small and medium-sized businesses, give them the opportunity to be subject to this. implement this bill. This Ukrainian association "Freedom" will support it in the first reading, and in the second reading we will watch and make changes and amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u42	National MP Momot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u43	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Alexander Volodymyrna was so keenly reported that we should talk less, support her in the first reading, and continue to watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u44	National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u45	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Economic Development, Zaporozhye. May I have a word with your colleague, Vitalia Homutinik?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u46	Please turn on Vitalia Hometicnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u47	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, I thank you for not reporting, not co-reporting, but registering. This is the progress of parliamentaryism. I want to say from the committee that we've been looking at this bill, and there's another bill, 4296 of our colleague, Oksana Prodan. It combines these issues and broadens other issues that involve not only small business and medium - size business but also other tax standards in the antiterrorist area. Therefore, one way or another is to unite these two bills, or to join the authorships of Oxana Prodan, and on the second reading, to unite both of them, because they are both useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u48	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. We always give our word to the committee. I just need your hand, I didn't see you lift.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u49	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, it is clear that any war ends in peace. Moreover, the ATO will end and will end, we hope, in peace. And the country should be looking for funds now, anyway, in order to restore infrastructure, restore the economy, restore business activity. But let's face it, nobody's going to do it the way the people we're going to do it, help with economic activity, help simplify bureaucratic procedures. And that's why both the previous bill and this bill are correct, because my fellow Peacekeeper correctly said that we have laws written for peacetime. It's a different time. And that's why Minfin's claims and observations should also be what they are today, not for peacetime. So please consider what is happening in the country, and consider how entrepreneurs in the ATO area behave and live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u50	Please turn on the microphone of People’s Deputy Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u51	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that we can base this law. Although I absolutely agree with my colleagues that the second reading will have to be seriously expanded by a number of issues that go beyond just a simplified system of taxation – this is also a tax bill issue, and the issue of payment or non-payment of taxes, expenses, their accounting and original documents. That is, we have a rather wide range of issues in view of the fact that the abnormal economic situation is located in part of Ukraine. But I do suggest that we do not waste time, that we adopt as a basis, and that we continue to work on the committee, taking into account all the standards that are necessary for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u52	I've got the position. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u53	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, thank you for your word. In fact, a project is very necessary, but this project applies exclusively to a simplified system. The committee considered project 4295a, which was broader. So I would very much like to take the basis of that project that's being considered, with the addition of the standards of another project when looking at the second reading. Thank you very much. That project that I'm talking about right now is about the general tax system -- it's about both income tax and land tax and value added tax, and reporting on those taxes. And that's what's going on right now all of those enterprises that during ATO's operations have no ability to pay them and report them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u54	So I'm focusing on your proposal to enact this law with the addition of Law 4295. Is that what I'm saying? Supported by the author. Please turn on the microphone to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u55	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry of Finance does not support this bill. In fact, the bill proposes to extend the deadline for all payers to 365 days after the completion of the anti-terrorist operation, and the deadline for payment after reporting is 365 days. According to our estimates, the impact on the government budget's income -- so it's not only about the simplified system, it's about the wages of the nadra, and the excise taxes, and other payments -- at least 7 billion. We don't support this bill. We have a very tense state budget situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u56	Please comment, Alexandra Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u57	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we've often heard about the budget losses from today's ATO in the Donetsk and Lugansk region. And they heard us and the minister of finance and the Prime Minister pleading that they are now turning to foreign investors to help restore the infrastructure and the vitality of these regions. Please tell yourself that any entrepreneur for whom, for example, a gas station or a grocery store, or a market was the center of life, would someone give money to rebuild? Nobody. They've destroyed houses, destroyed houses all our lives, and we don't want to give them a chance?Oh, my God! Minfin, you're saying today that you won't pay from the bank. Go to Donetsk, Lugansk and try to get some coal there today! Go under the bombs, under fire! Did you see how many miners died? Let's be honest, we have a situation, and if we love people who live in this territory, and I'm from Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u58	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u59	We have no right to leave them alone with the misery that the whole country is going through with them. I hope for the wisdom of MPs without Minfin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u60	Alexander Volodymyr, the only thing I would ask for is content. It was noted that all entrepreneurs were involved. I understand that this applies only to entrepreneurs who are registered in the area of Anti-Terrorism Operations. Yes or no? That's the principle. And they're not registered after the adoption of the law, but before, let's say, let's figure it out in time. Once again, dear colleagues, so we don't have a registration, a re-registration of businesses from other regions. So I ask that we pay attention when preparing for the second reading. Dear colleagues, there was an offer, combining Laws 4314a and 4295a, to be adopted in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, along with Minfin, with the Cabinet of Ministers to work on the second reading so that there is no possibility of avoiding taxation of those who have no bearing on those who have not suffered, sorry, from the situation that has arisen in the area of conducting the Anti-Terrorism Operation. Wait, we're voting now. Dear colleagues, please, I ask for your proposal by voting on the basis. Please vote. [[16:36:53]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. By factions, please let's see. Parenthood – 66, Regions – 17, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 25.0 – SMS, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28.34 – Freedom, 38 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, we have two other laws, and we will certainly see the hand of the national deputy Kaplan, and we will return to a law that Sergey Kaplin has not been able to report on in the fight against terrorism. And, colleagues, there will be a request that we also return to the budget changes. So let us now work quickly on a block of laws related to first reading. Please, Your Honor, 4980 - Draft Law amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2014 (for the redistribution of expenditure foreseen by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry to support the coal sector). Please, the people's deputy Turmanov, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u61	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to ensure financial stability and social protection for subcontractors involved in the construction of coal and peat enterprises. Last year, the State Budget Act of Ukraine provided for budget allocations for the corresponding year under the State Support Programme for Coal-Torfing Enterprises, the technical resupply of the listed enterprises. Unfortunately, I have to say that Ukraine's State Budget Act 2014 does not provide for expenditure for the implementation of the listed programme at a time when the current construction work is stopped. increasing social tension among construction mines. I'll just give you an example, today there's a 10th Novo Volínska mine on Volin for 7 months miners don't get paid at Donbass for 2 months. The bill provides for amendments to Appendix three, to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2014 Act, by redistributing the budget between the budget programmes. I'm a stenographer, there's a technical amendment. The issue was supported by the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee. The budget committee decided: it adopted the bill as a basis and as a whole. And the introduction of this, the latest changes in the budget. The figure at cost has changed by one billion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, under the cost line, we have 11 billion dollars left. 908 million. Here we take 180 million off this article and transfer it to the technical rearms programme to pay for the mine's wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u62	I see. From the Gellier P.D., head of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u63	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! [[B in m in s a l in]] The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 2 July considered a bill amending the State Budget for 2014 Act, number 4980. The bill proposes to redistribute the development expenditure between individual budget programmes within the overall budget allocations of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. The following costs have been reduced: 180 million dollars per budget programme to support state-owned carbon-based enterprises to cover their costs and cost-effectiveness of coal products and state-owned support for coal- and peat-based enterprises and their technological restocking. So the bill doesn't change the total amount of government budget expenditure. According to the general conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the conclusions of the Government. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy made proposals to support the bill. At the same time, the text of the bill and its appendix contain a number of inaccuracies and errors that need to be addressed, in line with the regulatory technical requirements for the drafting of bills for changes to the State budget. The relevant proposals are presented in a letter to the committee. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of number 4980 to be adopted on a basis and as a law in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals in the letter and conclusions. For the transcript, I would like to point out that, in connection with the Supreme Council's July 31st Act No. 1622, amending the State budget for 2014, the expenditure figures of the Ministry of Energy need to be reconciled.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u64	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u65	And the coal industry in addition to the bill, taking into account the changes that have been made. Therefore, in the case of the adoption of the bill, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority, should provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarification, including the harmonization of budgetary indicators. Thank you for your attention, please support the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? There's a need. Please sign in. Yankee National MP, Freedom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u67	Please pass the word to Eugene Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u68	Eugene Melnik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will support this bill and vote in favour of the bill (4980). Here was mentioned the 10th Mine of Novovolinsk. Immediately I want to say that the city of Novovolinsk, a mining city in which a number of mines will be closed, will be liberated by nearly 4,000 miners. This means that some 12,000 workers will have nothing to live for and support their relatives and loved ones. Here was mentioned the 10th mine, which has been under construction for 20 years. It must be said that these funds are essential to employ all those who will be reduced in other mines. At the same time, we have to say that all of the construction contracts, for example, the 10th mine, were concluded with the subcontracting companies Lugansk, where the leaders were, the founders, Ephraim, the son of Yanukovich, and also Ivanyushenko, where there were large corruption schemes. Respectable Society! At the same time, we have to say that on the 10th mine to this day, there is a corruption worker, the Janukovich Solob family, who is forcing workers to kiss his hand for being the director and allowing them to work on this mine. Respectable Society! Ukraine’s haters at the time of the Dignity Revolution cannot be allowed to work as managers of such large businesses. We, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, are here to see that this bill is adopted as a whole. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Rosenko, Strike Squad.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u70	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, this bill’s mission is absolutely noble. We need to respond quickly to the problems that we have, including coal miners, including the problems of the state budget. The only thing I'd like to do is make a note and the government first. A week ago, we were here looking at a draft of changes. the law to the State budget of Ukraine. We voted on anything there, but we didn't consider anything of social importance in this bill. And they weren't introduced there. I'm looking at it, it's very interesting. More faithfully, an explanatory note to this bill. The bill has been introduced, I recall, by our fellow Ukrainian national deputies. And what do I read in the Explanatory Note?Oh, my God! "The draft law amending the state budget of Ukraine. Designed on its own initiative to finance the construction of appropriate carbon-carbon enterprises." So it turns out that the Ukrainian national deputies are carrying out the mission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This indicates that either we have such rapid Ukrainian national MPs that they respond so quickly to problems including mining, or vice versa, that we have such a Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, unfortunately awkward, unturned, if we cannot quickly and effectively make systemic changes to Ukraine's state budget. So there is a huge observation if this bill from the Ministry -- please be good enough to submit it from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not to establish or run it on behalf of the Ukrainian National Deputies. That's why we want to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u71	I've got the position. Please, National Deputy Herman, Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u72	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! One of the ideologists of this bill is the Hero of Ukraine, Victor Turmanov, who worked on the mine for 35 years and not just the Hero of Ukraine, but the heroes of all the people who are now extracting coal for our nation in such terrible conditions and supporting this bill, rather than finding out the relationship here, whether it was Kabmin was selling it or the national MPs. It is the duty of the Ukrainian Parliament to support and facilitate the work of miners and to give them better conditions. I ask you to consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy of Kudra.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u74	Vladimir Kudrija, the city of Alexandria, Kirovograd. Dear friends! I represent mining Alexandria, where for many years under Soviet rule, mining and coal processing have been under way. I want to tell you that in the last 10 years, all the authorities that were in power have buried and buried the bourgeois industry that was in Kirovograd, unfortunately. Because it's one of the strong levers that would lead our nation out of dependence, energy dependence. I want to tell you that those cuts that produced a coal storm, some of the most valuable coal in our Ukraine, but thanks to the paws of our government, it's all buried. So as a representative of mining and mining, I want to do it on behalf of my constituents, most of whom were working on the cuts and mines of a former state-owned coal company. This draft decision must be supported because it improves the social conditions of former miners, miners, and so forth. The MP's Peace and Stability Group will have to uphold this law, which I also invite you to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give the Minpalevenergo a minute. With regard to this law, the position, please, of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u76	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is proposing a redistribution of public support costs to support the construction of 180 million dollars. These changes will not affect wages, and we fully support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u77	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's define the support of this law. Let me remind you, the registration number of Law 3574 is a draft Act amending article 1 of the Raising Act. No, I'm sorry, registration number 4980 is a bill amending the Ukrainian National Budget 2014 Act on the redistribution of expenditure envisioned by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry to support the coal sector. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the national deputies who were speaking, a committee of profile to support this law on the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote in support of this law on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[16:52:20]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, Regions – 44, 34 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, 3 – SMS, "North European Ukraine" – 27, 35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 33. Dear colleagues, since we have begun to work with the budget, there is a request to return to the agenda and to adopt a decision on the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 on the increase in the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission for the consecutive elections of Ukraine's national deputies. Because without this law, it is clear that the technological choices are fair and transparent. Therefore, fellow believers, petitions. Please return to this question. We have the largest number of people in the room. Colleagues, I understand, please. But in order for us to consider this law and determine its support, we need to include it in the order of the day of our session and in accordance with our session. Please, Your Honor, once again 4464a is the draft of the Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2014 (to increase the expenditure of the CSF to the next election of the Ukrainian National Deputies.). Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:54:27]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 46, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 40, Economic Development – 22, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 16. Dear colleagues, once again, dear colleagues, I ask the faction leaders to work with the factions. Once again, I am ready to put the matter to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the following question, which relates to Parliament’s previous decision. It also applies to miners. It's about a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act on workers in potassium-magnetic mines. Please, Sikora Olga Miroslavna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u78	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The need for this bill, the adoption of it, is due to an objective need, in fact, to correct the error, when miners, who were at the same level as everyone else, went down the mine for the mining of potassium-magnesium ore, failed to submit a bill on the prestige of mining today. It's about mining complexes where miners and the West and the East worked. Some 400 people remain today. Many of them are disabled. All of them are now retired because these mines are already closed. They extracted compounds where the chemical elements were metallic. But by someone's hand it wasn't introduced to the fossil classifier. That's why I'm asking our parliament today, and the miners and the Western regions and the Eastern ones are looking at our vote. Today, they need the adoption of a law to correct historical justice. And I'm asking very much to vote in favour of this bill to actually correct this error and to allow these 58,000 dollars to go all the way, and I think it's not even worth talking about today, because it's not really big money in the budget, so that these people actually get credit for their hard mining work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion or immediate support? There's a need for support, dear colleagues, that's it. Please, Minfin wants to support. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u80	The Ministry of Finance denies the adoption of this law. The bill proposes to extend additional tax benefits on the income of natural persons. And the increase in the work of miners who extract iron ore or other useful fossils, we believe, should be increased by increasing their wages by those owners who receive large profits, making a profit for mining. Thank you. We don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u81	Please, Alexander Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u82	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, I am impressed by the position of the Ministry of Finance, particularly the representative of the Ministry of Finance. Which just puts the breasts under circumcision when it's fighting with 400 potassium-magnetic ore producers. But why wasn't there such a clear position when we were giving GHS benefits to miners? So what do we have that's gray and gray and white? If there is a denial, please accept it in the first reading. Step out of the second reading, let's level the playing field! But, I'm sorry, one is to give the benefits, the other is not to give. Some are in the prestige of mining; others are not. Or maybe we could go along with them, work with those people, and then we'll put our objections under the ground, and we'll base these objections, and we'll convince those people that they don't need benefits, nothing. Then let's be so radical, sorry for the word, the simple methods of working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u83	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u84	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And really, it's probably not about the principles that the Ministry of Finance just told us about, but about social justice. When for some categories of citizens, and this is a large number of our fellow citizens, these are coal miners, established appropriate compensations, corresponding benefits, and a small number of people who also work under the same difficult conditions, actually doing the same extraction functions, in fact today they are limited in such benefits. Once again, this is about three hundred of the remaining active pensioners and a small number of people working in these businesses today. But in one, I want to support a representative of the Ministry of Finance. In parallel to social justice, those who are currently working need to increase wages. And I'm addressing a representative of the Ministry of Finance. We hope that in the 2015 budget despite. To representatives of state-owned enterprises, coal companies, you will make this logic when you raise wages for miners, miners and all those who work for state-owned enterprises. That's when it's going to be honest, and then I'm going to trust the Ministry of Finance that they want to replace the benefits with real wage increases. And when you limit wages and you tell us here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine that you have to raise wages, it's not quite right for me. That's why these principles of social justice, the Vitalia Klicka Faction, of course, will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, I only want to comment that it is not Minfin's competence to raise or reduce wages for miners. These are economic entities, and Minfin works only within the budgetary sphere. Dear colleagues, in public enterprises, he also does not regulate wages. I beg of you, dear fellows, come on. Paul’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u86	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished members of the people! You know, I think that many officials from government agencies, ministries and departments were not bad, sometimes at least to organize tours into mines or mining combinations. Then they would have a better understanding of the conditions under which people work and realize that there is some benefit for the unfortunate number of people who have been breathing coal, ore all their life and who have little or no right to receive the benefits that they have actually earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u87	I see. Ilik, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u88	Roman Ilik, 121 constituency, Drogbychin. Dear friends, there is a great request for all to support the bill, since it is not about principles, but only about the restoration of social justice. Look, there's a similar business in Stebnik on Drogbyckin and there's the same situation, exactly the same thing as a few hundred people who need to settle this issue. So it's not about thousands or millions of dollars that need to be looked at in the government budget to address the social injustice that has arisen. As a result of the hard work given to their health and lives by those working in these mines. Therefore, a great request to all national MPs to support the bill. Our "Fatherland" faction will support the bill and urge all other factions to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, come on. Everyone has a chance now. Companionaire, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u90	This is really one of the bills that concerns increasing the wealth of a working citizen. Sailors who work in harmful businesses are entitled to the benefits of restoring their health, and they understand what they are doing. But this is a very important work for the country. So I think any laws that apply to the benefits of such an honorable profession need to be supported. But using what is the Ministry of Finance, I want to say that all of our citizens with a minimum wage of 1,200 dollars, and that's exactly the kind of wage that the government forms in the formation of the budget, we have to look at next year. And make sure we have a salary of at least 25 dollars an hour. Then it is possible that the benefits will be beneficial and helpful. Because the benefit is, unfortunately, 50-100 dollars, it's very, very important right now, but it's pretty small, and you know, it doesn't provide any treatment or anything. So I think we need to look at it in principle, and I'm asking the representative to review Bill 4842, which is on the way to the salary raise to 25 dollars an hour. Then it can be said that each of our citizens will be protected and able to eat, rest, and health. Our position is to support this bill, and we will continue to advocate raising the wages of our citizens in order to restore respect for any profession. Unfortunately, 1200 dollars is no respect for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u91	Please make your final statement, one minute, National Deputy Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u92	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, is such a branch, it's called Mining Chemistry, so certainly in support of the bill, we need to think about it. Maybe we shouldn't talk about concrete coal-magnesia mines there, but actually, we should talk about a sector like mining-chemical enterprises. Actually, we've only got a few of those mines right now. But that's the problem, because they don't work. This does not provide raw materials for such an area as the production of complex fertilizers. Today, 90 percent of the fertilizers are imported by Ukraine because the domestic sector is uncompetitive. You're spending 80. 50 million dollars. It's a combination of titanium. The potassium-magnesium combination is stopped at all. So I'm proposing, by supporting maybe changing and supporting all the workers who worked or worked at mining and chemical enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to make decisions. There was a proposal made by the people’s deputy Rosenka, which involved supporting the first reading. And Minfin, along with the profile committee, will determine the format where there will be no abuse, where there will be no budget spending, at the same time that social justice will be restored. And we have to have a formula: no one has been able to vote or not have been able to vote, but at the level of effort, at the level of difficulty. This should be the criterion for acceptance or addition to the Mining Work Prosperity Act. Supportable, Your Honor? Please, come on. Let's put to the vote a bill amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act as a basis. Please, dear fellows. Registration number 3574. Please vote. [[17:08:26]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, dear colleagues, an important question. I hope we get him fast. We'll be able to look into all the questions. Sergei, wait a minute! Now, on the disabled, we're going to make a decision and move on to your question. Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code (for ensuring the implementation of the rights of enterprises, institutions and organizations of social organizations of persons with disabilities for tax purposes), No. 3623. Please turn on the microphone for Suškevitch Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u94	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u95	Let's say Suškević and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u96	Please! Dear friends, dear colleagues, I call on you to support the enterprises of the disabled who have always had the benefit that I have asked for now to continue. The point is that this benefit is now defined by legislation by the end of the year. Today, you've seen people come in wheelchairs, blind and asked me to support the disabled enterprises, and not until the end of the year, but to continue this preference. It exists today, it has always existed. Today you and I have adopted the National Budget of Ukraine, where we have reduced social spending on socially vulnerable people. And in these circumstances, if we don't support a disabled enterprise, when we've cut their expenses, it's just going to be our crime. I'm addressing you, and I'm asking you to support the disabled enterprises with the preference they've always had. And what I'm saying is that, after communicating with the committee, colleague Hometics, we decided to remove from the body all the proposals that were different. Now to leave just one phrase: "to continue the benefit that has always existed for the disabled businesses for another five years," there's nothing left. That's why I'm addressing you, Alexander Valentine's Day, to adopt this law as a basis and in general with one phrase: "continuation of disability benefits," at this very difficult time when people have to survive with a disability for at least five years. Thank you. Please support me, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, so that Vitaly Yuriovich Hometicnik does not criticize that I did not give him the floor, please turn on his microphone from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u98	Thank you. Sometimes the committee’s thinking can be useful. Here's the deal. Of course, this bill deserves attention and needs to be continued by the end of this year. So in order to accept this bill as a whole, I'm going to say to the transcript that we need to exclude paragraph 1 and paragraphs 2 of the Bill and in subsection 8 of the 2nd Transitional Regulations, the word and the figure "by 1 January 2015" should be replaced by the words "by 1 January 2020" and the digits "by 1 January 2020." So we're going to continue this benefit for another five years. I think this will be supported by such a position, including the Ministry of Finance. Thank you. And once again, I would like, Alexander Valentine's Day, also given that the agenda is running out, I would like to suggest we go back to the electoral financing bill. Because there weren't enough national deputies in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u99	We'll be right back. Dear colleagues, I see two hands, please. [[Noise Nodes]] Is there a requirement to register? Let's sign up. They insist on the performances, your honors, please sign up. Rosenko, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u100	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And it's really going to be, I want to pay attention not to any new benefits, but it's about what really is today's benefit to enterprises of disabled people's organizations, unfortunately, is temporary, by 1 January 2015. And we have to make a decision today and we have to make it right that for the next year, the enterprises of the disabled could plan their work in a peaceful manner, knowing that the benefits of their activities would be kept to the full, that there was nowhere to be hurryed, that there was no need to change, but that there was no need to work in a peaceful way for an enterprise of disabled people's organizations. Moreover, I noted that in this bill, in general, today's benefits are very strict in requiring enterprises of disabled people's organizations. That is, the number of people with disabilities who have a primary job in the company should be at least 50 percent of the average number of employees in the company. So this is a very clear formula that benefits the disabled, not someone else. And this standard cannot be abused by another enterprise. Besides, there's good in this bill. That the pay - out fund for such enterprises is a 25 - percent increase in the cost of the work that relates to the cost of the business. It's also positive that it makes it possible for our people with disabilities to get a decent salary. That's why the strike faction will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u101	Thank you. National MP Teryohin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, there was a discussion at the Tax and Customs Committee on this subject. And in the first alternative, this project allowed, let's say, margin tax manipulation in the cash market. Thank God it's off. I just want to emphasize that it has to be very simple, this project. Instead of "January 1, 2015" is "January 1, 2020." Period! There is no need to make any more changes to the other points. And one more thing. I would remind you that there is such a directive of the European Union that, in accordance with the principle of "what kind of communautaire," if we ratify, at last, the Association with the European Union should be introduced into our right. This 112 directive tells us in exactly one place about taxation of this kind of enterprise of people with limited capabilities. And that's where the emphasis is made. It is understandable that both indirect taxes and direct taxes should be used to provide benefits. But the key approach is their social insurance, special stockpiling funds that are made to support not business, but employment. So let's support the decision to extend this benefit for five years. Let's stop at that. No more changes will be made to this bill. And finally. Alexander Valentinovich, you know, let's go back to the end of history to the agreed Crimea project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u103	Now, now, there are still speeches, you wait. Herman, National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, there are many changes in Ukraine: the presidents are changing, governments are changing, parliament is changing. But there are things that must remain constant and constant in Ukraine. This is to be a concern for people with special needs. And our parliament needs to build on the zero-term benefits that apply to the business activities of those enterprises that are run by people with limited capabilities. National deputy Suškević has done much in this direction. And I think that our Parliament should support it now again and make this benefit unconditional, so that no matter how the Parliament changes after the next election, people with limited capabilities feel that they are being cared for by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u105	Please, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u106	Please pass the word to Deputy Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u107	He's handing over the deputy to Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u108	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! In Ukraine, life is very difficult now, and in a very difficult time, we live. And it's even harder to live in Ukraine now for people with special needs, for people who are trying to support themselves and help the state in hard work. We need to understand that these so-called emergency benefits, they're essentially theirs, why are they urgent? Because what better way to become those people with disabilities in five or ten years, 20 years from now? No, it's not. We should probably move away from this tradition, a little bit more time to extend the terms of the disability tax and to get the permanent state support of these people. Because there's no basic condition for these people to just go to the store, just go to the doctor, just move in our streets. So if a person with special needs is willing to work alone to provide for himself, we are simply obliged to help him. And the "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union believes that these 13,000 disabled organizations, which are in the country, are bringing together about 2.5 million people with disabilities in the country, of whom about 1 million, 200 people with disabilities can work, and only 250,000 people with disabilities are working in Ukraine. Four might be an increase in the number of people with disabilities who would be working for the state right now at this difficult hour to help us fight an external enemy, not just feeling dependent on the nation's neck, wanting and wanting to help it. So our principle of "Freedom" insists that similar bills be able to pre-create businesses and make sure that in a year or six months, or two years from now, we don't have to close this business. Because companies with disabilities require special investment because there is equipment that is not needed in other businesses that is needed by these enterprises, and it is expensive. And we should be concerned about these people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u109	Please give me 1 minute, Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u110	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, if I may ask such a rhetorical question, I understand that no one will answer it. And what determines that the period of payment changes from January 1, 2015 to five years? Why not 10, why not 3, why not 7? Who counted it? And we're doing an ungrateful thing, because here's the question, I'm sorry, but it's in the definition. You can view benefits as a tool to reintegrate people with special needs into society. And you can view it not as a benefit, but as really what happens in those countries that we call civilized. And they have a percentage of the economic participation of the disabled, if not higher in order than we have. And that's why I'd like the committee head to initiate this question differently. It is an instrument of attachment, integration or more accurate reintegration of people with special economic needs, into society, into economic activity. I'm offering you a simple offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u112	This is not a pre-election slogan — think about the logic of this! – I suggest you cancel these artificial 5, 3, 10 years at all. And that's where the colleagues spoke. It's a tool to reintegrate people with disabilities into social, economic life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u113	Please, Your Honor, give the committee head Valery Mikhailovich Suškević a word and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u114	Dear friends, dear colleagues! I thank you for remembering that there are people among you who have problems with disability. But I want to remind you that we have our soldiers today, our heroes are now without legs, without hands, with their eyes impressed. And the state is still unknown when it can give them the opportunity to work. Where will they work? I'll tell you where, first, they'll meet and help with these businesses. And I agree that it would be worth, after all, not five years. It's a real system of integration of people with disabilities into the lives of healthy people, the right to work. But to be honest, I've been added a little bit, they say, come on for five years. So I suggest we make a decision as a whole. If it supports the hall, just support, save the zero bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u115	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u116	Not until January 1, 2015, but to be permanent. So I have a request. If not, if not, then let us reduce what is involved in the employment of persons with disabilities. Please support me, friends, people who hope for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, we need to formulate positions. I'd like Vitaly Hometic to take the floor right now, and we've decided on the term of this longing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, your honor, the author of this bill! Of course, this bill is useful and necessary. At the same time, I would like to say that we have until January 1, 2015, when this benefit is in effect, there is still time. If I take it in general, I can't speak my personal position, because there is a committee decision. The committee decided as follows: to remove from the bill all the things that apply to procedures, that is to leave the procedures essentially those that are in force today and they actually set up organizations of persons with disabilities and a state in person. In a specific case, this is the Ministry of Finance, which also expresses its position. And as for the benefit, let's put it to a vote: whether it's a permanent benefit, or whether it's a five-year benefit. So just to get this done in procedural terms, point one and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u119	Let me continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u120	Paragraph one and paragraph two of the bill delete, this is agreed with the author, and leave only the deadline. The proposal that was on the committee back in 2020, the other proposal that today in the hall is a permanent aid. Perhaps it would be useful to hear from the Ministry of Finance so that they wouldn't accidentally apply the veto in this position?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u121	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u122	The Ministry of Finance believes that it is only necessary to continue for a limited period of time, since the rule itself requires additional adjustment. For example, the current standard provides that the cost of the kits to obtain the benefit should be equal to 8 percent of the cost of carrying out the goods. Thus, a small added value is already the basis for receiving tax benefits. Therefore, in order to address the issue of the timely application of this benefit, effective standards require substantial adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! I suggest, let's make sure we don't have a veto on the bill, there's a committee decision by the age of 20. It's a serious enough term to correct the law and increase the position. So you know that we don't go into the format where the Supreme Council supports and then we vote after the veto. So, colleagues, offer, come on, Vladimir Mikhailovich, support. By the time we're 20, we're going to be creating a positive and we're going to vote. I support the initiative as a whole. No objections? I won't. Please, dear colleagues, with these remarks, which were addressed by the head of the Committee on Finance, more faithfully, on the issue of taxes by Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick, so that we can now take these positions as a basis and as a whole. Please, Your Honor, vote. Law, I'll remind you (3623 registration number). On the basis and in general, please, dear colleagues. [[17:27:27]] For 270. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have not been able to vote, but there has been such an inspiration, a bill amending Ukraine's anti-terrorist laws, the author of the national deputy Kaplan. Let's give the people's deputy Caplin one minute, and then we'll define the adoption of the law of the day. In the case of inclusion, we can immediately consider it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u124	I immediately ask the secretariat to inform the people's deputies that they will come to the session room, because we are about to adopt extremely serious and extremely important and relevant changes to the current anti-terrorist legislation. They will be related to the creation of a special unit in the Ukrainian Security Service that will deal with issues related to the fight against terrorism and diversions. This means that through the activities of such a centre, through the activities of such a service, we will be able to secure the Herson region, the Mikolai district, Odessa, Kharkiv, other regions of Ukraine from the Kremlin's terrorist initiatives. Similarly, we will be able to stop the same initiatives at Donbassa. Our boys will no longer die in this fight with Putin, we can do much to stabilize the situation in the country. First of all, I'm asking the Party of Regions, maybe the Communists, to wake them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u126	I want you to wake up to your conscience, your responsibility. In principle, many of you spend the last days or hours in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the context of responsibility before your grandchildren, before the history of Ukraine to yours. At least the tape was written that you actually cared about the national security and defense of the country, you pressed the green button for the first time in your life for the right bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, come on. We're not discussing it. Let's put it in the order of the day, I'll definitely give it to you, Adam Ivanovich. Please turn on Adam Martinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u128	Thank you. Martinyuk, an illegal faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, especially voters! I think the more we have demagogs like today in a session hall in its towers, the more society will have problems. I would like the authors to talk about drafts when they discuss a bill or a bill. And the author who says who put and stole the bill because he didn't write it, he's been pushed -- he signed it, and now he's talking about what he's saying. Then let him tell you where his six cars were stolen and so on and so forth. It's not good when I'm talking about it! This is when there is a shortage of gossip to say, the Communists are mentioned! Keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We need to get into the daytime. Turn on the microphone of the Chumak People's Deputy. And let's vote for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u130	Dear colleagues! I want to address you very seriously. I think this bill is very important. All of our society, the whole Ukrainian community sees completely new methods, the means of fighting today, which are demonstrating on our eastern border of Russia. This bill is very important. Because the Ukrainian Security Service is setting up special units to fight intelligence groups just to fight on our eastern border. I believe that today it can in principle be the means to stop the spread of aggression in other parts of Ukraine. Let us take ourselves seriously rather than resort to personal disputes. Let us vote in favour of including this bill in the agenda and vote it in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u131	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, please let Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach from the profile committee. Nevertheless, we will try to vote effectively. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u132	Dear National Deputies! I ask you personally from the National Security and Defence Committee to proceed to the necessary level of concentration and responsibility. Bill 4226a foresees the need to improve the resistance, stressing possible, potentially possible terrorist acts throughout Ukraine. Let me remind you that the structure of the Ukrainian Security Service is determined by the Ukrainian law. And to create such a unit, we need to make appropriate legislative changes. These changes do not require additional resources from the budget. The States are formed by optimizing the Security Service’s numbers and allowing for the overall conduct of clear opposition, anti-terrorist activities, including non-terrorist acts throughout Ukraine. Please support inclusion in the agenda. In case of inclusion, you'll have to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u133	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, please, let's take our seats, prepare for an important vote. Please, colleagues, we'll talk later. A very serious issue, we will intensify the fight against terrorism. Please, honourable national deputies, support the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Terrorism Act (registration number 4226a). Please, Your Honor, vote. [[17:34:04]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 61 – "The Fatherland", 2 – "Regions", "The Strike" – 37, 26 – "The Economic Development", 0 – "The Mail", "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 27, "Freedom" – 35 – non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, can we try again? Colleagues, come on, there's a way to make a decision, all we have to do is really vote for it. Please, dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 4226a bill. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote too, Oksana Prodan. Insert the card, insert it. Please vote, Your Honor, and support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:35:16]] For 215 Better yet, the decision is not made. "To" is 215. The factions, please. 64 – Fatherland, 1 – Regions, 37 – Impact, Economic Development – 28.0 – SMS, "North European Ukraine" – 28, "Freedom" – 35 – non-fractional – 22. Are there reserves in the Supreme Council or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u134	Turn on the Caplina microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, I would like to, I understand that with the communists, hope is lost, I want to go to the Party of Regions and the National Deputies. No one's going to chase down the fall of the ex-national deputies using this unit. Our task with you is to secure the citizens who voted for you yesterday, and some of them will vote for you, from terrorism, from the Kremlin. And by your positive vote, you will now lead a part of the country, your electorate tomorrow, that you are on their side, on their side, on their side, on the side of their families, on the side of security for their families. This is a prerequisite for us to stabilize the situation in the future and start building Donbassa, infrastructure projects without the end of the war. That's why we rely on you, and you realize that there's support for a profiling committee, where many of your one-party members are. Please vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u136	Dear colleagues! This is the last time I'm going to try to get the support of this bill's Hall for inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, please sit down, please, I see, and the national MP of Dombrowski has entered, and he will now uphold this law. Colleagues, please take your seats. Let's try to support the bill. Please support the inclusion of Bill 4226a in the agenda of the day session. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:37:40]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina give your word, your opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u137	Dear Head, dear colleagues! In our time, we passed legislation to simplify procurement procedures for the security and defence sector of Ukraine. At the same time, we did not consider such an important unit as the State Special Transportation Service. Today, it is doing vital work, including in the eastern part of Ukraine. And the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee with a request for amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law, namely article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement, with the following content: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: first, paragraph 3 of the second part of article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement with the amendments introduced by the Ukrainian Law of 6 April 2014, number 1234-7 after the words "The Ukrainian State Service of Emergency Situations" to be completed with the words "State Special Transport Service".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u138	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u139	And the second. This law takes effect from the day it was published. Dear Head, dear colleagues, I ask you to support me in view of the difficult tasks that are now being put before the State Special Transport Service. To make this decision today, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, of course. The Law consists of one name. So when we make decisions, we've actually left the Transport Service out of line with that law, so one word. It's not a political decision, everyone can support this proposal, colleagues. Registration number, Vladimir Mikhailovich, registration number remind me. Dear colleagues, please. Let's sit in our jobs, well, we have so much time to work. But we can make decisions. Dear colleagues, has Vladimir Mikhailovich's offer understood? I'll do it again. Vladimir Mikhailovich, representatives of the UDAF faction, did not fully understand the proposal. From the place, please, one sentence is made up of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u141	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! You and I have decided to simplify the procurement procedure for the security and defence sectors. At the same time, we released a structure such as the State Special Transportation Service. Today, together with the Ministry of Defense, it has formed a task force to protect the most important objects and to rebuild the most important objects, but there is no possibility of public procurement to perform these tasks under simplified procedures. So Minfin, the Ministry of Transport, asked for a supplement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, to supplement that the State Service for Special Transport may use a simplified public procurement procedure for a special period. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u142	Complement the adopted law. I see. Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the initiative of the committee of profile, which is agreed upon, as we have heard, with the Cabinet of Ministers in particular. Please vote on the basis of this proposal as a whole. Please be supportive. [[17:42:07]] For-144 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 41 – Fatherland, 5 – Regions, 4 – Impact, 30 – Economic Development, 0.29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 1 – Freedom, non-fractional 34. Dear colleagues! Now. Colleagues, please put your hands down. We have a few more questions. One of them, remember this morning, voted on matters related to the activity of economic operators, sorry, in a temporarily occupied territory, is the registration number of Law 4032a. Now I'm asking you to prepare. We supported the second reading again, he's ready, respected colleagues. Procrastination of this issue is considered by many deputies to be of no use, but it is not. Sergey Anatolyovich, sit down for a minute. Before I put this question to a vote, I am convinced that it will receive support. I would ask, honourable national deputies, but it was the initiative of the Head of the Committee on Taxation to return to the Law on Budget Changes. This law is linked to the increase in expenses for the extracurricular election of the national deputies. Dear colleagues, we've tried to vote several times before, and I'm going to try to put, at your suggestion, this is a matter for voting. Once again, this is Project 4464a, a bill amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2014 (to increase the expenditure of the CSF on the election of Ukraine's national deputies in 2014). Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this law in the agenda. In order of the day. Please vote. [[17:44:24]] For 214 That's close, my dear colleagues, but it's not a decision. The factions, please. Parenthood – 46, Party of Regions - 3, 39 - Impact, Economic Development - 33, SMS - 0, Sovereign European Ukraine - 29, Freedom - 35, non-fractional - 29. Dear colleagues, can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please let's try it now. I can't discuss it because we didn't put it in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, let's try to get into the agenda. Please, dear fellows. For the last time, it's really the last one. Let's talk about the inclusion in agenda 4464a. Please vote. [[17:45:34]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 49, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 39, 33 – Economic Development, MS – 0.31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35 – non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, please come to the rostrum of Parliamentary Sergey Teryochina. Let us consider a question that we have actually considered this morning. And today we can still put a dot around this important law for Ukraine. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich, 4032a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! Let me tell you something. In the Tax and Mitigation Committee, there were consultations with the MP factions and the observation groups, which led to a very strange vote today. But all questions have been removed, agreed with the Ministry of Finance. The visas of five MPs and groups are also national deputies who do not join them are in the final document submitted to the Head of Parliament. The only thing I wanted to tell you. When Mr. Head said that some lotteries were there, I'd like to tell you what this is about. This law prohibited any lotteries in the occupied territory and expressly prohibited any lotteries from being held in another territory, in the occupied, any lotteries that belonged to it were subject to sanctions. We passed the Sanctions Act today. Thank God! So all of these questions about the qualifications, the banks, not the banking institutions, the lotteries from this project have been removed. The only reference is that if the sanctions are imposed under the Sanctions Act, this Crime Act is in line with the Sanctions Act. I mean, it's perfectly harmonious. And the Ministry of Justice and I agreed, not only with the Ministry of Finance. I beg you to vote. We're in turmoil right now in the administrative territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, economic, humanitarian and migration disorder. On behalf of the faction committee and signatories, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u144	Any questions for the reporter? There are no questions for the reporter. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down and consider the issue of support in the second reading and in the entire draft Law on Tax and Customs Control in the Free Economic Zone of Crimea and the characteristics of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (register No. 4032a). Please, Your Honor, support this law as a whole. Please vote. [[17:49:32]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 58, Party of Regions – 52, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 32, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 35. Thank you, dear fellows. You and I have basically exhausted the entire agenda of today's session. We have accepted many important questions. Please, Your Honor, calm down. We've consulted with the leaders of the MPs and factions, and we've determined that tomorrow it's very important to work on committees, to prepare all the laws so that we can make decisions on important issues with you next sessional week. Please, Your Honor, I can see a few hands for you, please. Please, the People's Deputies of Kyde from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u145	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I think I'm going to take the position not only of our Freedom faction, but of the other MPs who are convinced that today we should put to the vote a decree on the elections in Kharkiv, both the city's head and the Harkow City Council, for the shameful conduct they commit when they supported the anti-Majdans when they support separatists in the east of Ukraine. And I demand that the entire faction and most of the hall put to the vote now the ruling on the election of the Kharkiv City Head and the Harkow City Council. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u146	Please, Yavorowski, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u147	It's me, isn't it? Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, we must do another righteous thing today. I want to remind you once again that at a time when the head of the city of Harkova Kernes was in the hospital in Israel, Harkow was a beautiful normal city, quiet and all. He's back now, and you and I are gonna play, if we put that down, we're gonna get to what he's gonna cook in there, that's what we're gonna have. We know that only two of these people are Kernes and the former head of the district administration, Dobkin. By the way, where's Dobkin? Arrested, then released. Someone's playing around with these things. We have to put it to a vote today, and Kharkiv will choose a normal patriotic head of the city. Let's do it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, the offer to the national MPs. The point is, as far as Mr. Kernis is concerned, you really know a lot that a criminal case has been opened to him and is being investigated. As for the City Council of Kharkiv, it seems to me that our own committees and their local self - government committee could first analyze all the materials that were provided to the MPs with a view to making the city’s council objective, I stress, objective conclusions, in order to take account of the position and residents, especially the city of Kharkiv. So, dear fellows, we can now incorporate these decisions into the agenda. After that, when the committee considers them, we will then make decisions in general. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. Name the number, please, my draft decision. 4187, right? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u149	And 44. 4433a. Dear colleagues, these two decrees are 4433a and 4187. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. 4431a. I see. And 4187. Dear colleagues, please determine whether draft regulations 4187 and 4431a are included in the agenda of the session. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. Stop! Please, take it off. Three orders, they say to me, 4187, once again, 4431a and 4433a. Dear colleagues, with regard to the inclusion of these three decrees in order for the committees to work on them, we then admitted to a successful vote. For the inclusion of them in the agenda, please be determined by the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[17:55:12]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 59, Party of Regions – 0.34 – Impact, Economic Development – 0, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues! I think we're going to have the opportunity to look at these decisions on the committees. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u150	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As I recommend that in this sessional room many who are eager to support Hennady Kernes, I recommend that every national deputy leave the Supreme Council through the central entrance. From there to the park, where hundreds of Harkowians are standing and waiting for them kindly with open arms and you, Alexander Valentinovich, I urge you to stop the underground crossing so that MPs do not hide there like rats and run away from the people, but to answer why they cover up separatists and protect those who betray the Ukrainian people and the Harkowians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-14-m1.u151	The honourable colleagues, those who did not vote, unfortunately, had already left the walls of the Supreme Council, remained exactly those who voted. Dear colleagues, let's do the positive, but we'll finish our work. Once again, I would like to emphasize that these draft decisions should be dealt with expeditiously by a profile committee, and then we will be able to integrate them into the agenda and determine their content. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your work. We have considered and supported not all important issues today, but most of them, we have voted with you in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Good-bye. Parliament is working on a schedule. Please open the schedule and see how Parliament works. We're working on committees and factions tomorrow. Dear colleagues! The only thing I'm asking the honourable deputies to do in the end is to keep them out of Kiev for a long time. We don't rule out that at any time, if necessary, you see what situation in the country Parliament can meet for an emergency meeting. Good-bye. We're closing the session today.
