ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u1	Good morning, good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. And I'm going to the Secretariat, and I'm asking you to turn on the Council system and register with the people's deputies. [[10:03:45]] There were 274 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Traditionally, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome to the birthday of the National Deputies Herman Hanna Mikolayevna and Kutov Vejacheslav Grigorovovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I want to inform you. I understand there was an attack tonight on the military unit holding an arsenal of weapons in Artemis. The attackers are reflected in serious losses among them. There is only one easily injured man among the military. In addition, the premises of the Mariupal City Council, which resumed its work, are now vacant. Dear colleagues, I would like, in accordance with the requirements of current legislation, to now invite you to make an oath to the People's Deputies. On April 18, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Firsov Egor Pavlovich, elected on October 28, 2012 in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, which was included in the election list of the political party "ADVANCE". In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Firsov Jegor Pavlovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I have received a statement from two factions -- the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party -- who are asking for a recess. But I understand that they need a break to declare a statement. Two minutes is taken by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov and two minutes by Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko. One minute, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! The people of Ukraine are citizens of our country with you. Since the collapse of the USSR, they have constantly raised issues that concern them. One such issue is the status of the Russian language. The second issue that most of them are concerned about today is the security of living. The third question is to bring the authorities closer to people by electing regional leaders and their accountability, as well as an understandable tax scheme for all. If the communities, without exception, were not applicants to the authorities of the Kiev officials. Most issues would be addressed by supporting the same majority through a referendum. People are just tired of the fact that data in general are never solved. Even in a state of disaster, the opposition is declared at best. Therefore, in such approaches, the faction of the Party of the Regions does not consider it possible to vote. Nor can people adopt double standards of government when what happens in the West and the Centre is good and what happens in Russia is bad. I may object to different goals. Yeah, that's right. But radicals are both on the one hand and on the other. And the condemnation must then be mutual, not just one party. With regard to our work in Parliament. I can see that Parliament is living and working in a parallel world to what the country is living on today. And in most cases, there is, unfortunately, more harm from our work than from unemployment. And the statements and actions of individual deputies are sometimes so provocative that they give the impression that they either carry out a well-paid order or in pursuit of ratings contributes to the country's collapse. What do we suggest? First. Learn to restrain one another’s emotions and not to destroy one another’s insults. Second. Get on with it without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u5	Please let me finish at the expense of Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u6	It is urgent to embark on a constitutional reform that must respond to the requests of the people mentioned above. Third. Authorities must stop threatening people and engage in dialogue with them. Fourth. The Government urgently develop and propose to Parliament a package of laws to prevent an impending disaster in the economy, the financial system. This must be done today, as tomorrow circumstances may dictate a completely different agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, let's not have any accusations that I prefer the factions to any factions, the Communists came forward, the Party of Regions came forward, I'll give each faction then one minute for the performance. Please, one minute. One minute. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u8	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I would like to officially state from our party faction that we support the demands of miners in Krasnodon and the demands of miners throughout Donbass, who today have clearly stated their position that it is necessary to increase the wages of miners. I would like the miners to know why this is happening -- not paying wages and reducing wages. This is because the current regime has decided to segregate the budget and reduce subsidies for the coal industry. The current regime has decided to increase prices and tariffs for gas and electricity and other components of the production process today. Next. This has happened because the standard of living and the price of our population is declining, especially for food, essential products and medicines. This is all the result of the break-up of economic relations with the Russian Federation and in the East of Ukraine today, dozens of enterprises are stopping and unemployment in the East of Ukraine is on the move. I'm offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u9	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u10	On behalf of the faction, I propose once again the agenda today: we must immediately adopt laws to impose a moratorium on raising prices and tariffs; adopt the Wage Protection Act for the same workers, miners and other categories; and adopt laws that today are relevant to meeting the fair demands of Ukrainian citizens living in the East by language, referendum, federalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, from the strike faction, who can speak? Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we would like to remind all of you that the division in Ukraine started not from any region of Ukraine, but from this session hall, where some of the political forces and some of the politicians before each election are trying to sever the country on a religious issue, on a linguistic issue, on another issue. We strongly condemn such attempts, and we believe that today politicians must say honestly that a strong country to become Ukraine is a country that has a strong centre, a strong European capital and a strong region. And this has to be a balance sheet. How to build it. Obviously, without building a monopoly, to hear a region, and first of all, building equal competition, the country is ready to hear Donbas, but Donbas has to hear from Ukraine that today we have to fight corruption together, fight together this power, the blasphemy that sits in this room, fight the attempt to blackmail Ukraine and stand by the sovereign Ukraine. And we'll never go there.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u14	Never in our lives will we identify blackmailers and terrorists from other lands with Donetsk residents who today are afraid to go out on the streets. And it seems to us that those politicians who represent this region today should be ashamed to see you today instead of stitching up this region and standing next to the authorities to protect the interests of ordinary citizens in the region, trying to protect the terrorists who blackmail the inhabitants of small towns with guns, and who can't even, the inhabitants of these towns, say what they are for people. That's why we condemn today any manifestation of the division of the country that we've heard again in a few votes by the deputies who represent the opposition today. Enough of the country, we demand that all of us work together for unity and for the restoration of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, from the Sovereign European Ukraine, Olesia Donny. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u16	We are under the impression that we need to learn to listen to everyone. And that's true. We need to learn to listen to everyone, but why did we not listen to Vladimir Rybak, who was killed by Russian fascists, slowed down his stomach, put a bag on him, and thrown into the water alive? This is the Horlovian MP who defended the Ukrainian flag. Russian fascists won't listen to him. Why did we not listen to Richath Ametov? This is a Crimean Tatar who protested the annexation of Crimea. Russian fascists kidnapped him and tortured him. This is the first victim, I'll remind you, on March 3rd. Why did we not listen to Stanislav Karachevsky? Russian assassins killed this Ukrainian officer from Berdjansk. We don't listen to the patriots of Ukraine, and they're trying to blackmail us by not voting the factions of the Party of Regions and the Company that are de facto protecting us now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u18	They're protecting killers and terrorists right now. Dear Party of Regions and Communists, are you on the side of killings and executioners or are you on the side of the Ukrainian people?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sobolev, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I think what happened these days, when, for the first time in Mayan, Donetsk and other cities, people in Kiev and other cities began to make the same demands, namely, the fight against corruption, the fight against looting -- I think that's a great example of what not politicians now run the Donetsk, which requires some federalisation, but the Donetsk people will eventually manage the work that they understand perfectly, where the Party of Regions and the Communist Party has led their majority of the country. I think what's required on the ground today is also a requirement to combat terrorism. And I would ask that you, the chairman, announce a moment of silence to those people who were innocently tortured and murdered by Russian terrorists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u21	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. I also wanted to make this offer. Let's finish the talk, and I'll be sure to announce a moment of memory. Please, from the Freedom faction, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u22	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. On the other hand, we have seen this week that the Russian Federation is not going to fulfil any international obligations, no treaty, any direct aggression against the Ukrainian State continues to kill people. And today, I think we should first consider those bills that will lead to order in Ukraine. Because war isn't all over, and war can't justify the lack of illustration, the lack of cleansing, the lack of adoption of anti-corruption real bills, which are very urgent. Because today in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian forces, there are still representatives of the Fifth Column of the Kremlin, there is still an agency of a foreign state that is hostile to us, we have all these problems, we have this situation where there are people in our Parliament who are openly protecting the aggressors. Therefore, the law on illustration, the prohibition of Communist ideology, and the application of this decision must be considered and passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u24	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u25	Thank you. Anatoly Kinach, Economic Development. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! It is clear that there is a powerful system-wide external scenario against Ukraine. First of all, from the Russian Federation, which aims at creating conditions for civil conflict in Ukraine, destabilizing the socio-economic situation in the state. I would very much ask all who represent the Ukrainian people in Parliament today to understand that not voting, not having a clear position to protect the territorial integrity of the State, is a work that supports an external scenario that is based on an attempt to destroy Ukraine's statehood and territorial integrity. And the second. I'd like to focus our attention on socio-economic issues. Problems are getting deeper, and we also need our consolidated actions. In fact, everybody's taking a test on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u28	In fact, everyone today is being tested, regardless of his status, position, political colour, the right to be called a citizen, the patriot of his country of Ukraine. The Supreme Council should be consolidated around issues that determine our national security, national interests, statehood, and territorial integrity. And the Economic Development Group is calling everyone for consolidated action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see three more non-faction hands. I promised to keep my word to the outsiders. I will do so, but let us now pay tribute to the moment of silence to the memory of the tortured patriots of Ukraine who were found in the Donetsk region. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. I am convinced that executioners and murderers will be punished accordingly in accordance with both our Ukrainian and God’s judgments. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give the opportunity to speak out of fact. People's MP Rudzkowski, you can get out of here faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u30	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. On 1 May, a left-wing bloc conducted millions of economic marches throughout Ukraine. The requirement is 30 per cent increase in wages, abolition of pension reform, abolition of community tariffs, maintenance of economic relations with the Customs Union as a tool for preserving jobs. I also want to say from this rostrum, to the Communists. There's nothing to blame for the power that she's not paying her wages. It was you and Yanukovic who broke the budget. You are also responsible for the situation that exists. You don't have to pee on anyone. Take your responsibility. You're not left, you're thieves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u31	National MP Opanaschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to welcome everyone to the festival. Christ Voscres! And it's a great holiday for our Ukraine, and I think we're not going to fight at this time, we're going to make constructive proposals. I'd like to remind you that we have lost our lives on the Doñecina and the miners. And I'm sure we should also take them to the heroes and honor their memory. With their hard work, they really proved that they were heroes, and they got this coal, and they worked for their country. And what I would like to say is that we have a positive experience of holding meetings when rallyers are standing under the walls of the Supreme Council and making demands. Then, in February, a very bright parliament worked on a three - day package of bills that calmed people down. And that shows that when there are full dialogues between people and the Supreme Council, we can resolve the issues. What are we doing in Kiev right now? Do we imitate the anxiety of the situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u33	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u34	In order to calm down the situation in Lugansk and Donetsk, I think we need to hold an exit meeting. This will provide a more complete dialogue between the Supreme Council and the people. And on April 30, I registered the decree and ask her to bring it into the agenda and discuss it today. I'm sure if we go out there, we'll be able to find full dialogue and ways to solve the issue. People die there, businesses are destroyed there. There's an economy down there. There are thousands of people on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u35	Please, People's Deputy Easy and we're still working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The new Ribbentrop, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia Lavrov, made a statement yesterday threatening the use of Russian military forces against Ukraine in case the rights of the Russians are not protected. Similarly, they demand that the Ukrainian authorities remove the Ukrainian Armed Forces from the East. We have another requirement and a counterclaim to the Russian Federation. We demand immediate withdrawal from Crimea territory, from Ukrainian territory, of the Russian occupying forces. To take Russian troops away from the borders of Ukraine, which they threaten with aggression against our country. Calling off Russian divers who are active in the eastern part of the country, in the south of Ukraine, killing Ukrainian citizens, provoking civil war in Ukraine under the Syrian script. Both Putin and Lavrov are worthy of the heirs and disciples of Hitler, Stalin and Ribbentrop in lies, in perversions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! When the names are called, I always give you a chance to say it. I say again, we have, let's say, honorary colleagues, not the exchange of replicas, but the system's work. I would ask the Company to work systematically, including by voting. This is in line with the requirements of each national MP. Dear colleagues, I want to make an announcement. In accordance with the stated veil and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volkova Aleksandra Anatoliyevich, into the MP group Economic Development. And, dear fellows, I fully support the demands of the people's deputies for the mandate of those elected. And I constantly demand that appointed colleagues who work in public offices put themselves under the MP's mandate. We now have several such statements, and I would like to support these statements by our vote. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, article 81, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the national deputy Jarem wrote an application for his appointment as a deputy. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this decision by voting. Please vote. I'm betting on the vote to end the term of office of the national deputy Jaremy. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:27:01]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues, on the one hand, we demand that we not vote on mandates. Let's be clear. Region Party – 1.52 – Fatherland, 31 – Impact, 18 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign Ukraine, 22 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a motion for a permanent suspension of the authority of the People's Deputies of Lunchenko Valeriyovich, appointed head of the Zacarpathian ODA. Please support the proposal to terminate the mandate of the national MP in accordance with the application. Please vote. [[10:27:55]] For-182 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1.50 – Fatherland – 32 – Economic Development – 21.25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 25 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 28. In addition, Vladimir Bondarenko, elected head of the Kyiv City State Administration, wrote an application for the removal of MPs. Dear colleagues, according to current legislation, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of the national MP Bondarenko for the term. Please vote. [[10:28:53]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. 1 – Regions, Fatherland – 51, 33 – Impact, 18 – Economic Development, 25 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 26.0 – Company, 30 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I do not see the need to continue to put other statements to the vote because Parliament does not vote in favour of these decisions. I have many more applications. But once again I want to say, colleagues, let's either define ourselves or form mandates and then we have to vote, or not put this issue in the agenda at all. I'll put it to a vote, please. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. The first cluster of questions relates to the inclusion in the order of the day of our session. I'm talking to respectable colleagues, national MPs, we can look at each law separately or vote with a package to speed up the time. So no-no-no, that means that each one is separate, right? Each and every one of them. All right, dear colleagues, then we'll be supporting each individual project to include it in the agenda of the session, stressing the session. This does not mean that we must make decisions today. I ask the Secretariat to contact the National Deputies, who have gone outside the session room on important matters, to return immediately to the decision-making room. Please, dear fellows, we will now determine our jobs. No discussion, traditionally, as we work with you. I call the bill, and I ask that Parliament decide to include it in the agenda. The project (registration number 4752) is a draft of the Act on the imposition of sanctions on persons involved in occupation, annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Please, Your Honor, please support Parliament's proposal to include this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:31:27]] For 158. The decision is not taken. By factions, please, the Party of Regions – 0.59 – Fatherland, 24 – Impact, 2 – Economic Development, "Northern Economic Ukraine", "European Ukraine" – 23.27 – "Freedom", The Company – 0.23 – non-fractional. Please give me one minute to vote on the bill's author, Oleg Lazko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko. I want to address the citizens of Ukraine. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill of sanctions for persons involved in the occupation and annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol was now being resolved. Some members of the so - called pro - controlled coalition did not vote in favour of the bill. I take it these are the people who support the military aggression in Crimea, the annexation of Crimea, the occupation of Crimea and Sevastopol. We demand of the world sanctions against the aggressor, against Russia, instead of being able to impose those sanctions. In Ukraine, Russian businesses continue to operate, and people who have made military decisions in Ukraine can freely come to our country and do whatever they want. I demand once again to put this issue under review, to announce a list of MPs who do not vote for sanctions against the aggressor, and especially those who join the coalition. Let the whole country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u39	I got the offer. At the end of the room, I can go back to laws that don't add up. Please, Your Honor, next question is the draft Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. I ask, my fellow Members, to support this proposal, because this law consists of a single sentence, an important sentence that was missed during the vote for the basic law. It's about applying a simplified procurement procedure in a special period. It's an important question, you know, because in a special period, there's virtually no such possibility. This is particularly true of the Ministry of Defence, other power structures. Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion of the day sessions of this law. If you'll excuse me, Your Honor, I'm asking you to vote. [[10:34:14]] For-166 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 60, Impact – 4.25 – Economic Development, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 27 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional - 26. Dear colleagues, please. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, turn on the microphone. I didn't understand the faction position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! We will consistently hold the same position forever. The bill, which deals with the inclusion of the agenda, is not even available on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're not voting for a neck in a bag. Let the deputies know what they are voting for. Without such familiarity, we will not vote for the inclusion of this bill in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u41	I am speaking to the head of the committee of profile, Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk: please ensure that the materials are distributed to the deputies so that they can make decisions on these important issues. These are technical questions, please organize them. Please, next question. Project registration number 4754. We voted, dear fellows. The next question is 4595: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the provision of voting abroad. Project of the People's Deputy, Pankević. Please support the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:36:01]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 62 - Fatherland - 74, 29 - Impact, Economic Development - 25, 27 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 28 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 26. Next question, dear colleagues. 4673 Registration number: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for the creation of conditions for legal employment of citizens and the legalization of citizens'income). People's MP Opanaschenka's project. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. [[10:36:49]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0.60 - Fatherland, 17 - Impact, 17 - Economic Development, 26 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 28 - Freedom, The Company - 0, non-fractional - 24. Please give me one minute to the People's Deputy, the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, we have a situation in Ukraine where only 11 out of 25 million people are officially working. I mean, the working population. Of the 11th 4 and a half million or 5 are government officials. So only 7 million people work in private businesses. Where's the last 14 million? This bill is aimed at reducing the only social contribution to the level that enterprises will not hide and will start paying this tax. This is a reduction in the tax burden on wages. This will allow for a salary that exceeds 5,000 of these surpluses to be charged only by 7 percent of the EU's tax. This will create conditions for the involvement of professionals. Experts are the ones who create and develop different sectors of our country. I ask you to turn it on at the end and the deputies more. Once again, please support this important bill for our businesses and Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. 4722. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (for child services). Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[10:38:44]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Next question. Draft Act (Registration No. 4607) amending the current legislation of Ukraine (for citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power). A very important law that deals with the fight against corruption. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of him in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:39:19]] For-154 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Who doesn't want to fight corruption? Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 60, Impact - 15, Economic Development - 4, Sovereign European Ukraine - 21, Freedom - 29, Company - 0, non-fractional - 25. Next question, dear colleagues. Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for violations of electoral rights). This involves holding honest, transparent elections in our country. Please be supportive. (4741) for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:40:05]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 57, Impact – 27, Economic Development – 15, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, 30 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. Honorary colleagues, draft Law registration number 4331 of the draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment (as regards settlement of issues, periodicity, periods of payment of unemployment assistance). Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[10:40:49]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The final question of the inclusion in the agenda of 4,748 draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the order of criminal liability. Please support this bill. [[10:41:24]] For 169 The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 58 – Fatherland, Impact – 25, 14 – Economic Development, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 29 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 19. To the author of the law, please the People's Deputy of Miroshnick. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u44	Igor Miroshnichenko faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honourable National MPs, this bill, which you have just refused to include in the agenda, provides for a procedure for depriving not only the Attorney General but also the perpetrator of his duties. This is the only position that changes to actual legislation. It is extremely important because there are corruptionists, separatists, people in our session room today who are inciting the collapse of the constitutional system and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. And unfortunately, there has been such a situation in Ukraine that it is impossible for us to appoint a general prosecutor, but only a prosecutor can be appointed. We ask that such a bill be given the right of the Attorney-General to submit to the Supreme Council to deprive the MPs who deserve it. I ask you once again to put this bill into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, it is not difficult for me to put this bill again, and I fully support it. Because Ukrainian citizens require the Supreme Council to make decisions about those people's deputies who are actually compromising the status of the national MP, who are humiliating Parliament, who are demeaning Ukraine. And this law would certainly solve this problem, why we cannot bring the crimes of the national deputies to justice today. I'm going to put that question to the vote again. I ask all the national deputies to support him. Please vote 4748. [[10:43:37]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 62 – Fatherland, 25 – Impact, 13 – Economic Development, 23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 30 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 24 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I see that today Parliament is not ready to make responsible decisions. I don't understand, this must be how holidays work on our deputies who can't concentrate, who can't come together and carry out their constitutional duties in the Supreme Council. So, dear fellows, I have the next proposal to save our time and tax payers' costs to ensure the work of Parliament. I propose that today we consider the issue without making decisions. The next time Parliament meets in its full capacity to make decisions on the issues under discussion. No objections? There's no objection. Offers are supported. So let's look at the question in the first reading, and I ask you, dear fellows, that we consider all of the issues that we are going to consider now, by a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal and vote. Please vote. [[10:45:04]] For-174 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Improving Transfer Prices is under consideration. 4527. I'd like to ask the head of the Vitaly Hometics Committee to come to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! For the first time this year, taxpayers are supposed to report under the so-called Law that we passed last year on transfer pricing. This bill was designed and adopted for us to control, above all, the prices of high-end exporting companies in order to ensure that the products exported are practically free from the risks of understatement and that the State receives in its full payment of taxes. This law worked, but some of the provisions of this bill are still not working, namely, that by May 1, taxpayers have to report in due course of the past year. I want to remind you that since September 1st, this law has already been in operation, and from September 1st to January 1st, taxpayers have to report accordingly, and this report should be done by May 1st this year. But given that certain methods have not been approved at this time, that is, the method of determining the price of banking services. Some of the provisions of the Tax Code also require clarification on transfer pricing, and taxation for today is not quite ready to accept these reports. Everything would be fine if it wasn't for the fines prescribed in these rules on transfer pricing. The fine applied to the taxpayer is 5 percent of the circulation last year. So if you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u48	Therefore, if timely reports of controlled transfer pricing transactions are submitted, such large, irresistible fines are accordingly. Therefore, this bill proposes that reports on controlled transactions should be suspended by October of this year and that fines should be reduced if fines are not applied, if no reports are submitted. That's why there's actually a need to adopt this bill as a whole right now. Because the next time we get together in May, there will be problems with tax payers. But given that there is no consensus today, unfortunately, in Parliament, this law will have to be passed after certain consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, please sign two pros, two against. Chechetov National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, the bill that has been reported is expected by society, expected by business, expected by our economy. Unfortunately, however, the relevance of its adoption is very high. Unfortunately, to date, however, the session hall has not been able to vote on it. There are claims against the opposition. But there are large claims against the majority, because even the deprivation of their colleagues'mandates has not been voted on, although they may well have voted. Bills do not vote in favour of the inclusion of their colleagues on the agenda and so on. The position of the Party of the Regions and its position as an opposition faction is understandable. We have made our proposals publicly and publicly last time in the sense that we are retranslating in a good sense the words of the South-East. We want to re-enact the demands, the wishes of the people of the south-east, on issues that would enable us to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. This is both the two public languages, this and the very quick consideration of constitutional reform issues, this and what we needed to adopt, to sign a memorandum to all the sessional rooms. Regrettably, however, the unanimity of the position of the session hall prevented the opposition from signing the memorandum, as the voice of the South-Easters was again not heard by the same citizens as in the Centre and the West. He was just cooled off by that memo. Therefore, until these decisions are heard, especially in the south-eastern areas of the opposition, it is difficult for us to participate in the legislative vote, and many of the bills are not relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u51	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u52	Please pass the word Sold to Oksani Petrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u53	Please turn on Oksana Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! In fact, this bill changes the disadvantages that have been accepted by the past authority that was created for huge companies, for oligarchs to avoid transfer pricing, and other companies that did not fall within the specific criteria set out in the law had to pay even when they were not executed. The Vitalia Klicka faction supports the alignment of relationships that are in transfer pricing regulation, and we think we need to align requirements and equalize opportunities for each business. At the same time, we think that those fines that have been handed down and are in force today, they kill any business, whether it's big or not. That's one part. And the other part. In fact, report by May 1. No business will be able to start reporting on May 1. So we propose to support this bill and we vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Terjohin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm asking you to listen very carefully. First, this so-called transfer law was passed by the then majority, remember, by hand. The opposition then did not vote in favour of this law because it violates the basic principles of OECD internal pricing recommendations. So, really, by May 1st, until we took all these distributions into domestic pricing, we didn't leave as proposed by international agreements, we have to carry the term, let's say, for 2-3 months. But the rest there, let's say that the reduction in fines from 5 percent of controlled transactions to 100 IUU is, you know, a bomb. Because in the billions of turnovers that these offshore companies are doing, paying 100 IUUO and getting rid of any other tax liability, it's very fat. So our faction will only support the transfer of the time frame for reporting, as agreed with Minfin, on July 1st, and by July 1st, we need to bring this transfer pricing legislation in line with the Organization's clear recommendations for economic cooperation and development, and not imagine how the genius Klimenko and the genius Arbuzov did it at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, first of all, we're breaking the Rules again. This bill has not been passed through the committee, and it is a very important bill and it must be finalized. There are many, really, things that need to be changed. This is really, I agree with my colleague Teryohinim about reducing fines for large companies. And you probably have to put these big companies on one line with other businesses, and then it's really going to be a good bill without exception. But most importantly, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, and I ask you to ensure that the bill does go through some kind of committee procedure, then it will really be draft bills, as Vitaly Juryovich said, which can be voted on as a whole. Until they passed through the committee, well, which in general may be the subject. Let's stick to the Rules and then we'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u59	I make a comment to the committee that passed the law without consideration, although the committee's chairman has reported that the committee supports it. Dear colleagues, please, Mikhail Blawajki, Freedom and we'll finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u60	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor. The thing is, in fact, this bill allows today these billionaires, the oligarchs, who accumulate their money on offshores today, to get away from paying taxes on a huge scale. And that's all the committee head says today, it didn't go through our committee, it wasn't agreed. We can only agree, that's the deadline until July 1, 2014, because this procedure, we have an agreement and agreement with Minfin that they will be able to make the appropriate documents. And anything else, we will never support, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom is resolutely opposed to such changes and to tax evasion on a particularly large scale. We will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue and will make a decision during the next session. Next question (registration number 4580) is the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection. Please, this is a government project and the head of the State Migration Service will report. Please, Happy Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u62	Honourable Alexandre Valentinovich, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional and Temporary Protection. Ukraine's draft Law was developed by the Ukrainian Migration Service with the aim of implementing the steering and first phase of the plan of action for the liberalisation of the European Union of Visas for Ukraine as defined in the third report of the European Commission and the implementation of the plan and on 15 November 2013. The adoption of the draft law will help improve legislation on refugees and persons who need additional and temporary protection by taking into account documents in the field of migration adopted by the Council of Europe and the European Union. As well as Ukraine’s continued international commitment to human rights, such as the 1957 Convention on Refugees and the 1967 Protocol on the Status of Refugees, which is part of Ukraine’s integration into the European Union in the field of migration. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, from the profile committee. Please sit Sergey Ivanovich. The profile committee is chaired by Packan Valeriy Vasilovich. Where's the head of the committee? Ladies and gentlemen of the strike faction, I ask that your deputies be seated. I'm taking down the committee head's report. And please, Your Honor, sign up for this question, two for it, two for it, two against it. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Haydosh, the group "North European Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u64	Istvan Highdosh, the Sovereign European Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to say that this bill also refers to the implementation of the first phase of the EU visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine. As you know, the issue of illegal migration and refugees who are illegally trying to reach the EU through the state border is important for our state. The adoption of this bill will therefore improve the legal and legislative framework for refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection, including documents on migration adopted by the Council of Europe and the European Union. The adoption of this law will greatly improve the image of Ukraine in the eyes of the international community and bring our legislation closer to European standards. Our group supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u65	Thank you. People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u67	Please, Edward Leonov from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u68	Dear fellow citizens! This bill is of course very important in order for Ukraine to improve its image to the countries of the European Union, the world community, of course, it needs to be discussed, improved, voted on. But you don't have to forget now that there are processes inside Ukraine that should bother us much more, because there are now tens of thousands, and there might be hundreds of thousands of people who are under international standards, even though they don't have refugee status, but they are actually refugees. These are our Ukrainian citizens who are forced to leave their homes, leave their homes in Crimea, on Donbassa, where occupying aggression is now taking place. And we need to focus our attention on solving the issues first of all of Ukraine's citizens. Of course, it is necessary to resolve issues and people without citizenship, refugees, but it is finally necessary to grant official status to those who, in their home country, in an independent Ukraine, cannot stay at their place of registration, at their place of birth, at their place of permanent residence, and who are forced to leave their homes. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires the Supreme Council to concentrate its efforts on resolving the issues of temporary displaced persons, as is currently the international classification that identifies our citizens who are forced to leave their homes. We have to work out a set of laws, a set of regulations, in order for every person who is now forced to leave home to be sure that in their country of origin she can realize all her rights, that she will not remain simply in heaven, that she will receive medical care, legal escort that children will be able to learn, that students will continue to study in higher education institutions, that little children will be able to walk in kindergartens. Because there are tens of thousands of criminals, and now there are representatives of the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, who are forced to leave their homes. Let us take primary care of the Ukrainians, and let us cherish the Ukrainian power! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u69	Thanks for the offer. Please, Your Honor, the Chechetov People's Deputy, the Party of the Regions. I'm just asking you to make a statement on the content of the law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u70	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes to clarify the concept of additional and temporary protection. In the event of a change, a person who needs additional protection will be recognized as a foreigner or a stateless person whose rights are systematically violated. We believe that such a person can be recognized as any person who has not received, such as a home. Therefore, our proposal is that this government bill should be sent for further work and it is unfortunate that not only is there no votes in the majority, but even the head of the special committee refuses to present the bill to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u71	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u72	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! In the past, the Basic System Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection was adopted. What changes are now being made is right. Why? Because when we talk about visa-free treatment, when we talk about visa liberalisation for Ukrainian citizens, we're talking about in the countries of the European Union, there's a very clear list of things that we have to do. Not for the European Union, but for their countries. Not for the image of Ukraine, as it was said, but for today there are refugees in Ukraine. And so the expansion of this circle of refugees, of course, we have to take into account, including legislation. The only one, Alexander Valentinovich, when the government is proposing a bill, is not a MP. There has to be a financial and economic justification. I think for the second reading let them pass it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u73	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, all eager to speak. I can see that Vladimir Yavorowski wants to say a few words on this question. Please turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u74	Clearly, we are. Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Clearly, today we are not going to vote on this bill, we are going to vote on it another time. But really, this amendment to the basic law is probably really unique, because there is hardly any other country where the question is that refugees are citizens of the same country. As a result, this amendment is very and very important. It's caused by life itself, all of a sudden, by the tragedy of some of our citizens. Because of this, Alexander Valentine's Day, I think it's going to take at least a minute before the vote to remind the national MPs of the importance of this bill, and to get a proper number of votes. You need to accept it. He's in one of the most important bills. Behind him are the fates of those people, those refugees, and those from Crimea who moved on to the mainland of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u75	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, we will address this issue, we will make a decision on this law during the next parliamentary session. And now we're going to look at the issue (registration number 4629, 4629-1) this is a draft law amending some of the legislative acts on urban regulation and state architectural control. Please, Deputy Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing, Isenko Dmitry Valeriyovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u76	Honourable Alexandre Valentinovich, honourable national deputies, draft law amending some of the laws governing urban activities provides for the transfer of powers of state architecture and building control to local self-government. Transfer to the local level of issuance, execution and acceptance, control and acceptance of objects. The law also provides for the simplification of some arbitrary conciliation procedures. This law is very important for Ukraine's performance in business rating. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u77	Thank you. This is an interesting proposition that is important for deregulation of the economy. Have a seat, please. I ask you to include the microphone of the author of the alternative law on the same issue of Valery Mikhailovich Suškević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u78	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! I note that I fully support the bill that the government has passed on about all that concerns regulation of urban activity and state architectural and building control. But the language here is, my bill is an alternative to the fact that, unfortunately, the state constantly forgets and the authorities constantly forget that Ukraine has signed and ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So, on a personal basis, I've taken the basis of a bill that I've drafted, and I've added to this bill positions that don't allow planning, the construction of population sites, the formation of micro-regions. Construction and reconstruction of physical objects without adaptation for the use of disabled Ukrainian citizens Colleagues! We need to make the Ukrainian state available to all Ukrainian citizens. That's why this bill, it's supposed to be the basis. Because it takes into account both the governmental position and the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of citizens with disabilities. So I would like to support this very bill, which takes into account all the factors that are and are being proposed by both the government and the legal positions that apply to citizens with disabilities. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this statement. Please turn on the "Council" system to record the National MPs. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u80	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, both of these bills are really important, very important. If the first, if the first one accelerates, so to speak, the construction process shortens the deadlines, it's the bill that the government passed. And, of course, we need to support him. Because we know that in the building industry today there are so many violations and illegal barriers and so forth. Because of this shortening of deadlines and the increased control of the barrier, it is very important. I think it is also very humane and just that the bill of our colleague Valerius Suškević, who today literally demands and obliges the builders to adhere to standards, especially when it comes to disabled people. We know how many problems our Ukrainian disabled people have today to go to, say, state authorities in a wheelchair, to go to a movie theater, or to a theater, to go to a store. This is rarely where we can still see these pandas, these rails that we can walk on. Because of this regulation, the bill and the bill, which obliges the builders to introduce these facilities for the disabled, are already in place. I am convinced that we should vote on both the first bill and the second. I don't even see if they're alternative, they're actually complementing each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u81	Thank you. The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u82	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom" will support the adoption of these laws in the first reading. Because Freedom has consistently and consistently advocated increased authority over local self-government. Thousands of building conflicts are the result of the removal of the local community from the issue of consenting to construction and operation permits, monitoring compliance with city master plans, and the impact on the fight against corruption in the existing DKK structures, where everything can be resolved for money. Today, these laws return authority to executive committees of city, village, and rural councils. And that's right. Voting for this law is a law of lacmus whether today’s Supreme Council is ready to adopt laws on strengthening local self - government or not. At the same time, I would like to highlight the shortcomings. In particular, Article 40 of the Urban Control Act (para. 11) provides information on a rations agreement for the development of the infrastructure of the site and its implementation is indicated in the declaration on the readiness of the facility to operate. Freedom is not enough. It is necessary to provide, at least when entering into service, for help with the payment of the rations. This is now estimated at about 800 million dollars for local self - control — road repairs, kindergartens, and schools. And impreciseness in this direction will preserve considerable abuse and corruption. "Freedom" had developed and proposed several bills for consideration by the Supreme Council, but unfortunately, the Party of Regions and Communists had blocked these bills that could solve these problems. But despite that, Freedom supports today's first reading of these laws. Of course, the Suškević Bill, our colleague, the National MP, is better, and it solves complex disability problems. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support these bills. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Chechetov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u84	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! We're looking at two bills right now -- government and parliamentary. In our view, a more socially oriented bill is not a government bill, but a national deputy of Ukraine. The novelty of the project is that when the implementing authorities of rural, rural, urban councils on State architectural and building control are not established, in villages, villages and towns the authority of such bodies is carried out by the structural units of the district government administrations, and in district centres and cities the central authorities of the executive authority implementing the State policy on State architectural and building control through the main inspectors of the building. In general, by supporting the idea of a project aimed at transferring authority in the field in question, at the same time, they have to find that the final proposal is crippling it. In our view, the possibility, in accordance with the law of non-establishment of architectural and building controls in villages and villages, will have a negative impact on the availability of this kind of public service. I would like to emphasize the thesis that positively distinguishes the MP's bill, because the MP, the specific author, provides for the establishment of national and international legal provisions that lay down the requirements for accessibility of the environment, taking into account the special needs of persons with disabilities and provide for the protection of their rights to social orientation. It's a shame that the government bill doesn't take this into account. I think the next time there's a majority quorum to vote on, the National MP's bill needs to be supported on the basis, and our comments should be taken into account in the process of preparing for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u85	Thank you. National deputy Ariev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, because the DASCO mafia is being eliminated -- the State Architectural Inspectorate, which during the ruling of the Party of Regions was one of the main families of the regional clan, and was a good watchdog corrupt in all directions, where the inspectors actually blackmailed and removed bribes from the builders, from, not only, but even from those owners of the buildings that had been issued long ago, allowing appropriate and formal documents. This is a very important moment, and we're eliminating the Mafia's actual structure, passing on all powers to the authorities. But I'm also addressing, dear colleagues, let's continue these things and, in particular, prevent such terrible events that occurred during the previous authorities, such as the construction of the green areas, in particular, Bill 2626, which everyone has prepared without exception the majority of Kiev. I'm separate from that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u87	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u88	I would like to express my gratitude separately to Alexander Valentinovich, who is accelerating the signing of the President's decree on granting the Bilican Forest as a reserve, because this is the first step on the part of the President's responsibility, who is actually doing this in the right direction. But in order to ban construction in green areas, we need to adopt the 26th Bill 2626. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Council, I ask you one minute to give this a moment's notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u90	People's MP, Kapplin, Vitalia Klitschka faction, 144 constituency, Poltavščina. Our faction will support these bills. Because they're built on principles: first, fighting corruption, second, deregulation, third, taking into account the interests of the disabled, fourth, decentralization. These four whales, the anti-corruption reform whales, are meant to be the foundation of these bills. At the same time, I pay attention to the people of the East and the South. A party of regions with communists will not vote to protect the rights of persons with disabilities or to fight corruption and the main one will not vote for decentralization. They need decentralization as a slogan, they need decentralization of corruption to continue looting, including miners. Take note of them and remove them from the country’s political map at the next election.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u92	Let the next election and the results of the vote become surprising to them, but a legitimate obstetrician about the existence of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Party of the Regions. This is the position of most citizens. And I know for certain that 99 percent of the miners who are now on strike are going to demand, especially after the salary hikes, the cancellation of the registration of these two political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, from the profile committee, Hennadi Zubko. And we're closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u94	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! It was a good thing that all the deputies expressed themselves in that regard. I wanted to go back from politics in general to the very essence of the bill that we considered on the committee on April 16th. And the main purpose of this bill is to do a very simple thing -- to transfer the authority of state architecture to local self-government today. This is one of the points that the country is going through today in the decentralization of power, and today, I think that both the Party of Regions and all the other parties that are present in the hall should understand that this is the first step towards the opportunities that there are in the country today after giving power to additional local self-government. We're looking at two bills today. And the bill of government, and the bill, which is an alternate bill submitted by the People's Deputy Suškević. But the question is that the alternative bill was submitted later and was not discussed on the committee. And there's virtually no significant difference. And the suggestions made by the National Deputy Suškević are enough to consider. And maybe we should add them to the government bill in the second reading. Because there are some points that are already included in the state-building norms that are being proposed today by National Deputy Suskevich. And there are moments that are being addressed today by the Ministry of Social Policy, to the point where we have more attention to our disabled people and people with disabilities, people with disabilities. And maybe this complex should be included in the bill that the Ministry of Social Policy is preparing today. Therefore, the committee’s proposal is very simple. Support the government bill. In the second reading, take into account all the amendments that relate to the mandatory creation of an architectural and building council, the mandatory control of people with limited capacity to comply with legislation. It's a mandatory report of what's about to begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u95	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u96	All public organizations that now control unhindered, unhindered movement of people with disabilities. Therefore, the committee’s view is that government law must be upheld today. And in the second reading, we accept those suggestions. structure for second reading. And those moments that affect today's increased powers and the capacity of people with disabilities need to be included in the new bill, along with the Ministry of Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u97	I got the offer. My fellow Members, I think it is with this proposal that Parliament will be determined when the time comes to vote for these two important laws. We are now moving on to the next issue, registration number 4584, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities (to improve the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature drawn up by the central executive authorities). I understand the important issues involved in deregulation and simplification of the registration system. Please welcome Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Sheremet Pavel Mikhajlovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to thank you for being able to deliver a package or part of a package that's aimed at deregulation, which is now made up of four of the first laws. And the first is, in fact, about amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities (to improve the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature drawn up by the central executive authorities). The problem is that Ukrainian citizens are forced to appeal to the central executive authority in Kiev to obtain the necessary permission to work directly in their hometown or village. Accordingly, the project provides for a procedure whereby entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to obtain such permits at their location or at the location of the business through single windows, leisure centres or administrative services that are created at the local level. Documents will be issued, including via the Internet. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u99	Thank you for the meaningful report. Please, the head of the committee, Alexander Volodymyr. A committee, I recall, on business, regulatory and antitrust policy. Please, Alexandra Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, this is a continuation of the deregulation that we agreed with you in the hall that at such a difficult time we will help business, understanding that the economic development of the state is when there is employment, when there are jobs, when there is pay. Our committee on the eve of this bill was holding a field meeting at Kiev's only liberation centre, and we saw all the problems that the government has brought to us right after our meeting, and we wrote them in a letter to the government that told us: the liberation centers of Winnice, Lviv, Mikolayev, Kiev -- which are preventing today's problems from actively working out the only liberation centers and state administrations. The biggest problem was what's in the law here, and it's the most important thing: that all ministries that have to give consent or permission and are not present at the liberation center have no right to accept entrepreneurs in their own personal territory. Now only documents through the government administrator, and the government administrator will find out by electronic means, by registering consent and obtaining permits for entrepreneurs. This is a major step towards reducing corruption. The only request that we have in the first reading in the transcript is that we are against paragraph 5 in the part that, "except for those types of farming activities that are defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" remove because today the standard in Ukraine is in place, that if there is no permission in the Law on Listing of Permits, the holder carries out his activities and his household activities: if necessary, the submission of a declaration, if not, works without any permits. No decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u101	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u102	No Kabin rulings can be stated in the law that they may be above the law. Only law enforcement, and this part we're asking you to delete. And to foresee, at the end, where there are requirements of a public administrator, the responsibility for violating the deadline for the issuance of permits and permits and the inclusion of silent consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this statement. The national deputy Yavorowski. Let's get out of here, Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. Please increase the time of Vladimir Alexandrovich while he goes to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u104	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, Fatherskina, the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! I want to say first of all that the government has finally done a very specific job. It's still a re-issuance of the many bills that have been passed before. I've already said before from this rostrum, and I've talked publicly about what we're going to have to spend a long time trying to bring back that legislation that was adopted by a recent majority to bring it back, at least to bring it closer, say, to European standards, to European rule. And we see that the government started this work. Of course, it's complicated. It will also take a great deal of time to reshape those bills that have been made under corruption, under closed, so to speak, schemes, not public schemes. This is done in this very case. As a national MP, I think that all majors have encountered this many times, not two, it's also the absence of the same licenses or the availability of these licenses purchased. Of course, they were purchased, especially for the construction industry. In my district it's literally a few houses where there's almost no documents, only a license, let's say there, and there was nothing. It is good that this bill has a standard that allows the issue to be resolved within five days and free of charge. I'd like to see it for free, of course. Perhaps it will take a few more years, for there will still be something going on in this system. It will be necessary. But what the government is doing right now, we must support you. That's a very good trend. It's slow and slow, but it's getting closer to European standards. I'm sure there are people in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u106	We will certainly vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy. Today he is acting according to all the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u108	Honourable Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill is intended to introduce, among other things, the issuance to government administrators in arbitrary centres of the holders of documents of a permissive nature drawn up by the central executive authorities. The draft amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities is still important for the implementation of the task of regulating the economy and simplifying business conditions. The project, among other things, is proposed to prohibit the acceptance and issuance of applications for extradition, transformation, issuance of duplicates, cancellation of documents of a permissive nature and declarations, as well as the issuance of such documents, if issued, through an acquittal centre. Indeed, this bill of Government is aimed at deregulation of the economy. The Party of the Regions will always support and support this legislative direction. Normal conditions are being created for business development, entrepreneurship, investment climate. In general, the conditions of small business and entrepreneurship are deburested. And it is very unfortunate that a good bill by the Government, which is really necessary for business and entrepreneurship today because of the low discipline of the majority, I repeat, most of them, because of the low attendance of the session today cannot be adopted. And it is unfortunate that most people today do not support an important initiative by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national MP Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u111	Please turn on Oksana Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u112	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, I address all those present in the hall to those who watch us on television. In fact, this project is a continuation of the footsteps that the new authorities have taken on the real deregulation of business conditions. Moreover, this project applies not only to entrepreneurs because it refers to all the administrative services that people today have to get from all over the area in one place, but only in the district center. What the government is now proposing to split up services, allowing people in their area, in their district center separately to receive these services and not to go to a single point, will significantly reduce the level of corruption that today is in power and business relations. We, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, clearly support this bill and ask all MPs, all factions and groups to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Head. I can see from what my colleagues have said, that in fact everyone supports a territorial solution or a territorial aspect of the solution to the issue of free centres. By the way, the experience of Winniek I know very well where there was a long time ago a single window, a very positive window, and I think it can be widespread. The only thing I'd like, Mr. Minister, is to really have enough of the four bills you're talking about to deregulation of the regulated Ukrainian economy. I think that's just the beginning. And I took the floor not to make compliments, because, in fact, our group "Supreme European Ukraine" will support this bill. I think it's time to move on to, or maybe we can look at another question at the same time -- the price, the remuneration for administrative services. Because the state has to perform its functions. And the state uses the money that goes into the state budget. And so some prices are just completely inadequate. I'm actually thinking about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u116	Thank you very much. I actually think that this mechanism needs to be changed. You understand the philosophy of administrative services. When money is taken from people, it is important to help these people, not once more, to take money from them the second time. I think that's what you're working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u117	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this important issue. I hope that next time the whole Parliament will support its adoption. Now we're moving on to the next project (registration number 4583) is the bill on metrology and metrology. He is also reported by Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Sheremet Pavel Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your support for the one that came from the rostrum of the first law, the bill. It's just today, today only four, it's clear that there's going to be a much larger wave going to deregulation. The second draft of the law is also aimed at this goal, even a little bit more, at the promotion of Ukrainian exports too, because we need to synchronize Ukrainian standards and international standards. This is what the Ukrainian Law on Metrology and Metrology (new edition) is intended to do: firstly, harmonise legislative acts in full terms with the documents of the International Organization of Law Metrology with the acts of European Union legislation on these issues. The other one. The distinction between regulatory, supervisory and economic functions in metrology And here, in fact, we're proposing the transfer of functions, the exercise of state metrology, which was previously carried out by the Ministry of Economic Development and is now being carried out, and the state-owned enterprises that are part of its administration, to the central executive authority that will implement state policy in this particular area. Third. The distinction between administrative and household services. Four. Narrowing down the area of regulation of metrological activity. And the fifth. Simplifying access to world and Ukrainian markets by measuring techniques. The adoption of the project will ensure the creation of a modern metrology system in Ukraine, its integration into global and European economic space, the creation of conditions for the development of domestic production by increasing its competitiveness, which is especially important when European markets for Ukrainian goods are now opening up. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, please, from the Committee of the People's Deputies of Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer! The Industrial and Investment Policy Committee considered the bill at its meeting on 8 April and unanimously supported its adoption as a basis. The Committee draws the attention of all of us to the fact that there are some small comments on the bill. The largest, most impressive document, a very systematic, very thoughtful document. But there are small comments that could be removed until the second reading. In general, the Committee supports the adoption of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u121	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this project. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's MP Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Vladimir Pilpenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u123	Please turn on the microphone of Vladimir Pilpenka, a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Head. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. We support everything the minister said when the bill is presented. At the same time, we think there's a pretty big problem that needs to be removed between the first and the second readings. I'm talking about the problem that all major MPs probably know is the problem of counting, particularly the trust of gas counters, the trust of water counters. That law, which is in force today, makes it clear that the trust of counters is carried out at the expense of the company that provides these services, the water service. And you know, it turns out that if the business manager is strong and smart, he meets the requirements of the law, there's no problem with people. And if it happens like I did, for example, in the district a few years ago in Lubna, where the director of the water canal, by failing to meet the requirements of the Water Countenance Act, was subject to write-offs from ministries, from the authorities, from the authorities, and actually blackmailed people. People had to go, believe in the counters they took. Think about it: Grandma takes off the counters, the connections, or Poltava, or Chercassa, comes home, pays the money, comes in, and charges her for taking this counter off her own hands. Until people went outside and blocked the area a few years ago because the problem had not been solved. This is an important problem. Now the same thing is happening in the Mirgorodovocanal, which is served by another district center in my district, Velikobogachansk. And I'm also struggling with this, and I'm trying to prove that by the law that is now in effect, people shouldn't pay for the trust of counters, it should do business. What is suggested in the bill that was put forward for our consideration? It predicts that the payment, including the dismantling, is being made in order for Kabmin to be paid. I'm asking you very much, let's not solve this issue at the expense of the low-income population and put extra pressure on them. This needs to be worked out and we're going to insist on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u125	Thanks for the offer. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u126	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill is one of the two key ones that needs to be approved as soon as possible by the Ukrainian Parliament in order for Ukrainian entrepreneurs to take advantage of the open window of opportunity that the European Union has now given to Ukraine. I point out that today the European Union has virtually removed the customs barriers in a unilateral order. What's left? And the technical barriers, the venerable ones, remained. And no removal of customs barriers will help the Ukrainian exporter if we do not urgently make a normal regulatory basis for standardization of Ukrainian products. And metrology is part of this system. So I understand that we can find dozens more points that need to be refined, refined, and so on. But I'm also paying attention to the next window of opportunity open until autumn. If we do not urgently pass this law now, our entrepreneurs will not go to European markets before signing the Free Trade Agreement with the EU. And they could be out by now, and we're delaying the process. I support not only the basis, but I propose that this law be passed in general, then in separate positions that apply to the internal market, but also in terms of confidence in water supplies, heat supply, gas supply and so on. These are actually our internal questions, our own free will. We're trying to close the problems legally, let's put it mildly, by incompetent managers. We can't close all the problems with this law. However, the sooner we approve of it, the sooner we discover it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. I'm asking you, the Muggle People's MP wants to add one minute to the position when we discuss this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u128	Thank you. Wet, 17 constituency, Winnitzkin. I fully support Xenia Lapina in that it is long overdue for this bill to be passed and made by law. Because Europe has long worked, I think, hard, but very simple standards, regulations. It's very simple. Where it's simple, it's brilliant. For example, grain is accepted by two indicators around the world: it's food and feed. We have six classes in Ukraine where even experts do not always know. So we really ask all the deputies to support and vote on this bill as soon as possible. And we thank the government for introducing this bill. I also support the suggestion that it should be accepted in general and then corrected very little time. Therefore, we thank those who passed this bill. And I'm also asking you to support it, to vote in the future as a whole when they're elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u129	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u130	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! I also want to support my former colleagues and my colleague, the Chatter, and my colleague Lapin. Today, the market of 500 million people in the European Union for Ukraine is really being cut off. The preferences are incredible even for countries that have joined the European Union. But not the tariff barriers we are talking about can be an insurmountable barrier to our goods, especially agricultural goods. I want to draw the attention of all colleagues that we have a negative external trade balance of about 15 billion, but agriculture and agri-industrial complex gives plus 11. Therefore, the tariff barriers do not apply to us, especially agricultural products. Therefore, the law must be passed immediately. And the proposal is yes, Alexander Valentine's Day, when we vote, put it first on the day of the vote and call the entire room to support it. This is a rescue for Ukraine. Once again, this law requires immediate adoption in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u131	I mean, I understand the proposal when we discuss this issue to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. He's ready for adoption, that's a very important question. Please, Your Honor, we are moving on to the next draft of the Standardization Act. These are related things. Registration number of this bill 4585. Please, Paul Mikhailovich Sheremet, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! It's a continuation of essentially the same direction, because, along with metrology, standardization goes as well. A bill on standardization (new edition) is being duly introduced, which is intended to form the only national body of standardisation that is not a public authority. This is critical, because this way we not only deregulation this sector, but we also dismantle this sector. Second, to improve the legal and organizational principles of national standardisation through the introduction of only two, not three, two standards of standardization: national, where national standards are adopted by the national standardization body, and standards are technical conditions accepted by enterprises, institutions and organizations. So this cancels the sectoral standardization that's taken to the state level, of course. If the industries want to make their standards, there's no problem, but it's not going to the state level. And for 15 years, the central executive authorities have the right to review their sectoral standards with a view to transferring them to a national level, i.e. there is a normal time lie, in order to make certain adaptations that are needed. The adoption of this law will ensure that the national standardisation system is brought into line with the European model. Again, what's very important is that you're also stressing. We need to synchronize these standards so that our manufacturers can go out with their products, with their goods to the European market. This will facilitate business management, improve the competitiveness of Ukrainian products and comply with international and European standards. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, from the Committee Secretary of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy, Negligent Vitaly Alexanderovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u134	Honourable Head, Honourable Attending, Citizens of Ukraine! This bill, as has already been said, is being considered in the package with the previous one. I want to point out the order of the active government, because the previous call, number 3337, on September 30, 2013 introduced a similar bill. So this is saying that it's a very important direction. It has to be decided. Today's government, taking into account previous observations by the scientific and expert management, has introduced certain regulations and submitted a draft standardization bill to Parliament. The Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy at its meeting on April 8, 2014, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Standardization Act. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal and organizational principles of national standardisation aimed at bringing it into charge with the European model and the creation and functioning of the single national body of standardisation. The chief scientific expert at the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Apparatus, in his conclusion of April 4, believes that the first reading of the project can be based on the following comments and suggestions. The National Committee members, when discussing the bill, supported the government's proposal to adopt a new version of the Ukrainian Standardization Act, since the current law was largely inconsistent with the current requirements. At the same time, the committee members noted that the bill needed to be finalized to take into account the comments made during its consideration at the committee meeting, as well as the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided to support the draft law, to bring it to the consideration of the Supreme Council, and to recommend that the outcome of the first reading should be taken as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u135	I understood the offer, fellow believers. There is a need, I see, to discuss this. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies. Please, National Deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u136	May I have a word with Mr. Kirilenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u137	Please turn on the microphone of People's Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, I have some suggestions for this bill that lie next. In the fall with great difficulty was adopted, I think, a greedy law for Ukraine, for the Ukrainian agro-industry complex. The Law on Organic Production and Circumstances. I want to pay attention to all my colleagues, and all the listeners who fell down in the middle of the crisis, the markets of any kind, fell down. And only the organic market, or how it was common for people to say "green production" didn't notice the crisis. It's growing in geometric progress. This is a testimony to the fact that mankind has come to realize that it is necessary to eat healthy foods that are environmentally clean. So for standardizing clean production, when they start talking, standardization starts with land standardization. Are they suitable for organic production? I would like to remind everyone that the countries of the European Union's largest market for consumption of organic products have been chemicalized so that only the Alpine ports remain. Thus, the European Union is a colossal importer of organic agrarian raw material. Ukraine is potentially the largest producer, since we did not impersonate our lands in poverty. The law provides for the standardization of land first, and then for the production it produces. I'd like to see in this law, there's not a word for it, I understand, it's relatively framework. But in order for the second reading to provide for the implementation of the Law on Organic Production and Commodity. This is Ukraine's economic rescue -- organic production and export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u139	Thank you. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u140	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, of those four bills that are presented, one of the most important, probably this one. What are standards today? When we lose the Russian, Belarusian and other markets we lose the SND countries because of this imperial policy in those states, we can and have this opportunity today to go to European markets. But this cannot be done without European standards. And I want to support Ivan Grigorovich that Ukraine has a unique opportunity to withstand strong European competition with environmentally sound products. And that's why the second reading needs to be one of the red moments. And one more thing. Including the notion of ecology (there and chemistry, there and other moments), we cannot forget that Europe has given up genomically modified products. And we can't allow the standards of those products that contain an illicit number of genetically modified products. Because it affects the genes, the future generation, the birth. And this is what all the world’s leading scientists are up against. For the second reading, I think we're going to work out this law. He's needed. And thank the government for taking such a fine initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sell Oksana Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u142	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The Vitalia Klicka faction supports both the Standardization Act and the Metrology Act. At the same time, I want to pay attention to what. Indeed, without the Standardization Act that we are currently considering, there can be no exports, no increase in exports to Europe by Ukrainian producers. That is why this Law No. 4585 must be adopted, if possible, in general. Because it was needed yesterday. That's part one. I also want to talk about the project that we've just been looking at. It's 4583 on metrology. Because there were proposals in the hall for the adoption of it all at once. I very much ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to give at least seven days for the second reading, and I'll explain why. The Standardization Act provides a standard that we've been fighting for several years, and I want to support my colleague with regard to the trust of counters. There's a situation that's been going on for years now that, by getting water to the supplier, to the monopoly, every citizen had to pay for the weight, for the counter. It's like we're going to the market to buy tomatoes, we're going to go with our weights. We don't do that. This law (4583) stipulates that each person should buy, check for himself, and pay for it. So I ask you very much for my first reading of 4583 on metrology. And support the entire project (4585) on standardization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u143	I got the offer. I'm asking you to turn on the Xenia Lapina microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a few aspects. First. The Standardization Act does not deal with agrarian issues. Let me explain why. There will be a separate Law on the Quality and Safety of Food Products, where the European system is fully established from the field to the table. So it's just different things. You're absolutely right about everything, it's just in another law. That's why there's nothing here. This law is actually procedural. It's a law on how standards are approved, controlled and harmonized. It should be adopted as soon as possible. Otherwise we simply never harmonize our standards with Europeans, and our manufacturers will not go to the European market. I repeat, the window of opportunity is very short. It needs to be done now. And I want to pay attention. This law changes the paradigm of standardization. If the standardization used to be some kind of homemade sword over the manufacturer, it's a paradigm.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u145	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u146	Now the paradigm is that standards are helping to achieve competitiveness. So that's a good thing for the manufacturer. Dear colleagues, let us approve of it in general when we vote. And then we're going to look at the quality, safety of food, which is just as vital to the agricultural sector of opportunities in the European market.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u147	I got the offer. Please, from the committee, the closing word, one minute, the national MP, the Ingredient.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Let's still listen to the committee's proposal, and we'll take these two bills, both first and second in the first reading. But taking into account their weight and significance, we will consider a brief procedure, make some changes, and take a second reading there in two weeks. Why? Because there are some inconsistencies, even in these bills, there are observations by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, well, there are some substantive observations. There are a few things that need to be defined, let's say, in principle. The minister said that a decision was being made not to be a public authority, such as standardization. It's very good, it's European world practice. But there's no telling who's going to do it. It's planned to be a state-owned enterprise. And for example, what happens if this company goes bankrupt. So I suggest that the first reading be shortened.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u149	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, we discussed this project in detail. And we'll make decisions at the next session. At the same time, honourable national MPs, many of you are calling upon me to work without interruption, to be ashamed of those who have not come today and have failed to fulfil their constitutional duty and to compromise their position before our constituents, the honourable citizens of Ukraine, who have delegated us here to the Supreme Council to work honestly and with inspiration. So, colleagues, there's no denying that we're working without a break. And I hope that we will discuss all the issues before the end of the morning session. I ask again to the rostrum of Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Sheremet Pavel Mikhailovich. He wants to report on the registration project number 4586 on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on investor rights. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u150	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, the last law of deregulation from us today. It's more technical and it's about internal questions inside the company. This is about a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investor rights. The problem is that investors, investors don't have the ability to change management as quickly as they sometimes do according to the situation that the results show. Thus, the draft law proposes to amend the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, the Master Code of Ukraine, the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Shareholders, and proposes, inter alia, to include in additional grounds for the termination of the contract of employment with the owner's initiative or the authorized authority and the termination of the powers of officials and the establishment of a minimum amount of initial assistance, to establish that the material responsibility for the unreceivable enterprise rests solely with the officials, to reduce the number of cases of 8 dogs 4 applying to officials of material responsibility, which is limited to the average monthly wage, to determine that officials are responsible for the damage they have done to the household society within the limits and order of only provided for by law. The adoption of this project will allow for a better understanding of the procedure for suspending the discharge of civil servants of the household society, as well as the strengthening of their material responsibility. I thank you for supporting all of today's package, including this project as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u151	Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues, from the committee of profile, head of the Committee on Industry and Investment Policy Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u152	The Honourable Chairman, Honourable Members of Ukraine, the Committee of Industrial and Investment Policy at its meeting on 8 April considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Moreover, I would like personally to thank the Cabinet of Ministers for the bill. What I've been trying to do for eight years, passing two bills, is to decide that this bill is your final decision. The contradiction that exists now between the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Act on Shareholders and the Law on KZOTE (the Labour Law Code) you thus resolve, correctly, civilized and in accordance with the market principles of the economy. Thank you so much for that. I very much hope that the Supreme Council will adopt this bill both as a basis and as a whole. But I would like to warn you from the previous two laws and not rush into adopting them in general. Read them carefully, dig into their contents. National standards are being repealed under these laws, and here I agree with our colleague Lapina. Yeah, they're canceling out. But the products you want to sell in Europe will have to meet European and American standards. It's just that you won't send her there. So please be careful, read it, understand it, and then we will accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u153	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u154	People's deputy Kaplin, Poltavstina, Vitalia Klicka faction. We support the previous and these bills. Similarly, we share the concerns of the previous report about specific warnings about draft laws. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, I think there's a number of very important documents that need to be adopted at the right time. Perhaps you will consider the proposal to hold a meeting next week, regardless of the holidays. And arm the government with appropriate laws to start reforms in the country. It's unfair, we've called, several tens of thousands of citizens have been mobilized to do so. To resist military aggression. They were there, in these military conditions, meeting, in fact, and Easter, and now the May holidays will be, in paws, "meet." And MPs simply ignore, as you can see, the meetings of the Supreme Council, and some of the whole factions actually sabotage the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think we need to take into account the complex situation, the need to adopt these important bills and do everything we can to make sure that Ukraine's course towards the European Union and the main market in Europe is as dynamic as possible, and the Supreme Council has played its historic role in the timely adoption of the relevant bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u156	Xenia Leapina, Party for Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, why is this bill important? He's finally putting the points above the "and." Who, then, is the official? It's the same hired worker who uses the same one. Is it the same protection as any technical worker, or is it the employer's representative, who is responsible for the organization of manufacturing processes or in business? What the director or any other official had previously defended at the same level as any hired employee was normal for the Soviet Union, and is not exactly the right situation in a market economy country. This bill finally makes a normal market economy and normal market management for businesses when the official person is changed not because he needs to find a discount, but because he does not meet the levels, expecting the employer to do business. I mean, not competent enough, inadequate situations, etcetera, etcetera, et cetera. And you don't have to prove anything to anyone. It's just that the employer decides to change his rep, and that's enough. And we give this opportunity by law, but at the same time we are doing compensatory work, as is done in all European countries. So I feel the same way that this law can be supported on the basis of the whole. It's technical enough, it changes only a few positions, although it's fundamentally important for investors to come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u157	Thank you. Zarubinsky National MP, please. He's from the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues! There was such an improvised discussion about the two previous drafts, for which we said, in principle, positively. I'm going to tell the Honourable Jury Mikolaiovich that if there's a competition for the interests of the manufacturer or the manufacturer and the consumer, I think that a test of civil society, a civilized economy, is the priority of the consumer. So not the consumer for the standards that the manufacturer is capable of, but the manufacturer has to adapt to the consumer's standards. It's not chicken, it's clearly consumer first. So the first two bills are correct. As for that. Mr. Secretary, there is a legal technique. And even good wishes themselves should be invested in legal technology. There are rules of law. You can't call the "protection of investor rights" bill when there's no mention of investors in the text of the bill, there's a reference to economic societies, and that's not the same thing. I took a close look at it. That is why the name must match text or text matching the name. And one more moment, I'd like to emphasize it. Why I'm saying that there are certain rules that still have to be followed, because then there's going to be a lot of people who want to change this law because it's not exactly written. Look what's going on. What happens is that there is an attempt, on the one hand, to regulate social relations that constitute the subject of civil law, labour law and, on the other hand, social relations that constitute the subject of labour law are the rules of civil law. There's the First Deputy Minister of Justice here, and I think she'll confirm that this is a paradoxical phenomenon. And that's why the bill is not written. So it seems to me that in the first reading as an idea, we can support it, but in the second reading, including the subject of the legislative initiative, we have to make proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ponomarov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u160	Dear Lord! Any investment projects. Personally, I believe that neither I nor the faction of the party of regions will now vote, not because the laws are bad, they are necessary, they are important. But until there's an order on the ground, until there's a rule of law on the ground, no investor will be involved. I'll bring one fact. Last week, I was arrested on a formal charge by a member of the Council. He was not admitted to counsel throughout the day. behind closed doors. When I arrived as a member of the national team on the complaint of relatives to find out the situation, I was held for several hours behind closed doors, not allowing myself into the room. Moreover, while I was there, I had a search at the receptionist's office. The District Attorney stated that “and there is nothing for the people to go to public institutions and to deal with their work”. I ask the Attorney-General to assess the staff he now appoints on the ground. And I request the Minister of the Interior to make the same assessment. I request that such a declaration be considered official. As long as we don't make any serious bills, they'll just be pointless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Please, the People's Deputy Golovko wants one minute to add a few words to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u162	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Well, first of all, cynicism and the insolence of the Party of Regions, who come here in the morning to mate, near the rostrum. They will read out the statement about the hardships of the Russian language, and then they will flee the hall. And really, now that there's a very important bill in our session room, and we need to adopt it for Ukraine, they're not. They come here and they'll tell something else afterwards. And now, with regard to these bills that we are considering with you. The previous standardization bill is very important, indeed, this bill. It is essential that we adapt it to the requirements of the European Union and European standards. And, indeed, it is of urgent importance, and we will support it. As for the second investor protection law, there are a number of observations. And accordingly, those remarks apply to the fact that there is no clear definition of who are in office and who is involved. Because, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u163	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u164	There is no definition of what it is, indeed, to the officials and to whom it applies. Indeed, we should break up such Soviet practices where an enterprise employs an employee, a business manager, to manage it, and does these functions improperly. And then he can't be released, because there are a number of restrictions. Still, we need to determine who such officials are. So in principle, I understand that the bill is necessary. We'll support him. Yet, we do realize that all the clear suggestions and comments made on the committee should be made before the second reading. So that we can take everything into account for the second reading and then adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u165	People's MP Filipenko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u166	Thank you, Mr. Head. Pilpenko - Economic Development, Poltavščina. The Economic Development Group shares the position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority and believes that this bill deserves to be sent to work on. It has already been said by colleagues who speak that the investor rights bill protects investors only by its name. Unfortunately, the text of the bill does not mention investors at all. Eighty percent of the bill deals with the subject matter of regulation of the Labour Code. And the other one actually had it, and then the committee comes out to give its opinion on this bill. Because this is about changes to article 41 of the Labour Code, although in principle there is article 36 of the Code of Law, which defines the general reasons for breaking the employment contract. It's about the material responsibility of employees who work in the company, but it's not about investors at all. That's why we think this bill needs work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you. That the head of the profile committee strongly supported the project and considered it to be very important and timely. I think a lot of people have expressed their support for the words of the government today. And it's very desirable that this kind of support be in the voting for these important bills. Dear colleagues! We discussed issues related to the economics ministry’s proposals for deregulation, the protection of the rights of investors and businessmen, entrepreneurs, and so forth. Colleagues, we are now moving on to the next question -- 4582 -- this is also a government project to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to ensure that copies (photocopy) of documents are true and that they are signed on documents. The first deputy minister of justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u168	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to establish the authenticity of the documents and their statements and the validity of the signature on the documents. That's what he's up to. Today, a number of laws provide that citizens, if they wish to receive an administrative service, should be required to bear witness to a number of documents when they are submitted to the authorities of the State. Therefore, the project proposes to establish an alternative way of certifying copies of documents, namely by assigning the official person of the public authority who receives the documents, by verifying the authenticity of the applicant’s copy of the document and its original, and at the same time by certifying it. At the same time, notary testimony remains an alternative. And of course, citizens can be used if documents about receiving administrative services or documents of a permissive nature are sent by mail. If you look at the analysis for which the fee is currently being made for supporting copies of the documents, it's on average about 5 or 10 bracelets per page. In this context, the bill will allow, firstly, to reduce the costs of citizens, and secondly, it will allow them to save time if they turn to public authorities to obtain administrative services. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, from the profile committee of Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u170	Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Dear voters! The Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy considered Bill No. 4582 at its meeting on April 17, 2014. According to the contents of this bill, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to change the standards that are designed to improve the law. First of all, notary standards for reducing the number of notary actions, minimizing the costs of consumers of notary services, and accessing such services to all types of populations. In order to achieve the objective of the draft legislation, amendments are proposed to the Labour Code; to the Act on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine, fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products; to privatise small state enterprises, i.e. small privatization; to export, import and return cultural values; to license certain types of farming activities; to credit associations; to grain and grain markets in Ukraine; to state registration of legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs; to mortgage; to car transport; to share societies; to wholesale markets and to agricultural production; to state registration of property rights for immovable property and their burdens; to lease or concessions of industrial property. Associated with the expansion of the list of cases of faithful copies, photocopies of documents and their statements, the validity of the signature of documents not only notarized but also by officials of public authorities, local authorities, businesses, institutions, organizations, and so forth. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is believed to be the result of the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u171	Let me finish. I asked for the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u172	Bill 4582 can be adopted as a basis. The Supreme Council Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption has ruled that there are no corruption factors in the bill. And the committee offers to accept it in the first reading. Thank you. Based on the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u173	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, are there willing to discuss this issue? They're desirable. Please sign in. The word is given to national deputy Glazunov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Momoto, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u175	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u176	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, this bill will make life easier for ordinary citizens, reduce the need for notary services. And that's why we have to support him. I urge you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u177	Thank you for the constructive offer. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u178	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka, Poltavščina. This bill aims at reducing the number of notary actions, increasing the access of ordinary people to these services. And I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council and those present here working and progressive politicians of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to what is the calm atmosphere in the Supreme Council for the absence of MPs from the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine. Now there are about 70 to 100 national deputies in the Supreme Council Hall. In any case, the idea of reducing the number of national deputies elected by the Ukrainian people comes to mind. Then there will be a threefold reduction in the budget for their maintenance, then there will be a 30-fold reduction in political corruption in the state, then everyone in the face of Ukrainian citizens will know and every national MP will be held accountable. I hope that the Lord God will have mercy on Ukraine, and this idea will find its implementation in the walls of Parliament. And then we're going to have really responsible leadership, the personal responsibility of every representative of the Ukrainian people, and we're going to have the same constructive, meaningful, substantive conversation that we have right now in the walls of the country's higher legislative body. And I would also like to ask you, Mr. Head, not to give the next word to the representatives of those MP factions who sabotage this difficult country's history, for every citizen, the time of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, here express their "hotels" and enigma.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u179	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u180	Who have nothing to do with the real aspirations and wishes of the working class of Donbas, the South of Ukraine, yes, and the whole of Ukraine. Because both Majdan and Antimaidan demanded from Yanukovich, from power, from the political, so-called political elites of the one country: fighting corruption, taking into account social, new social standards, modernizing European social standards, including production, mines, metallurgy and so on. So our main goal right now is to really reboot, including the Supreme Council, to remove from here what is preventing it, just as today, peacefully, without demagogies, politics, the populim to work on important bills, we went through that list of bills that are actually important to the European course of the state, and if there were still votes, we would have voted on them, and we would have taken them back to work. We need to think about such a reform, and we need to think about it nicely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u181	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Ilik Roman Romanovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u182	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency, Drogbychina. Dear colleagues, Bill 4582 of the Fatherland faction will support as well as any other bill that relates to deregulation and simplification of the system, especially in cases where these things have to be paid for. When you have to pay for copies and stuff. But I think that, in addition to what the government has declared, it is certain that it should be already passing bills that relate to and reduce the number of ministries, states. So if we were to reduce the number of officials in individual ministries and governments by 50 percent, I think it would only make the quality of that mobile device much larger. At the same time, I think it's time to introduce legislation that deals with business. So that this green light for business is turned on to reduce licenses. And here is, in my opinion, the illustrative example of Georgia when it reduced the number of licenses ten times. The same applies to taxes. I think that at the time of the introduction of relevant government tax bills, when taxes are to be paid by all, but these taxes should be clear and clear to all. Again, there is an interesting suggestion that the amount of taxes can be reduced by five or more. And the same applies to the ability to work in such microbusiness conditions, to take on arms the experience of other countries when taxes are not paid in general in the microbusiness environment, and in this way draws the attention of the State to those people who barely make ends meet. So the position of the Fatherland faction on the bill is simple and clear: we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u183	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, one minute and we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u184	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, Fatherland really supports this law. He needs it, but, Alexander Valentine's Day, I just might as well have it in the transcript of ours, and maybe before the vote you can just let the committee think about it. I would, for example, delete those laws that simplify the approval of copies. I'd like to take this off about the export, import and return of cultural values. It's too serious, too much has been taken out of Ukraine, really, our values, all these years. And yet it would be worth it, I think it would be worth it if it were going through a notary that was actually more responsible. The official of the state is the same. But I would have removed it. The same thing, about credit unions. We know how many violations. Let's say the Turbot credit union, literally, robbed the Ukrainian intelligence, their savings, which were, just destroyed. Maybe we should just delete these two bills and let them stay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u185	Clearly, respectable colleagues. I mean, there's a proposal that still takes into account the observations that Vladimir Alexanderovich said about the project that was adopted, but to protect people from fraud, and cultural values from export, because it'll be possible to just fake these certificates. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this, and let's move on to the next project. And on these issues, we will also make decisions at a separate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider a draft order for a relief program for those who have experienced political repression in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. I invite you to the rostrum the author of this draft of National Deputy Leonov Eduardo Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! I very much want to support the draft decision and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole, because as of today, criminals who suffer from occupation have simply been left without any assistance from the State. In fact, what's going on now? A person who is forced to leave his home when he comes to a place unknown. I mean, people go out without even knowing where they're going. They come either to Kiev or to Poltava or to Zakarpata or to Lviv, and they have to look for where to go, they have to pray, they have to look for the help they need. This draft decree entrusts the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop a state programme with the assistance of people who have been affected by the occupation by the Russian Federation of their home land, the Crimean Peninsula. Regrettably, refugees from both Donbas and eastern Ukraine are emerging. There is no official refugee status in these people because under international legislation our people have the status of temporary displaced persons, but this temporary movement must take place in an orderly manner and must be fully secured by the State. So we've come up with a draft decision that we're asking the Supreme Council to approve so that the Cabinet of Ministers will immediately prepare and introduce to the Supreme Council a comprehensive social security programme, a comprehensive provision for people who are now suffering from Russian occupation. I'd like to support you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u187	Thank you, Your Honor. I am requesting the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Nazis and the inter-national relations of Paccan Valeri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u188	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Literally a few weeks ago, we passed a two-pronged law on temporarily occupied territories. At this point in time, in order to settle all questions about those who were leaving, we had to leave the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. At present, there is no legal status as to who will be responsible for these people, how they will be employed, how they will be provided with housing. The Human Rights Committee is asking you to support this decision and asking you to give an order, Mr. Head, to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council to bring technical and legal remedies to this bill. Please support us so that we don't leave those people alone who really need our help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u189	Thank you, Valery Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, please note for the transcripts the proposals made by the technical and legal committee for this project after the Supreme Council has voted in favour of it. Dear colleagues, I understand I'm thinking of all the proposals made by the National MP. Is there a need to discuss? I won't. Yes, that's understandable, and I'm sure the entire room will support this proposal. Next question, colleagues, 2409-1 draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify the procedure for the state registration of the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons who are entrepreneurs according to the application principle. Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Lapin Kseniya Mikhailnovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u190	Xenia Lapina Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill decides one of the most painful points today in Ukraine, namely, the cessation of entrepreneurial activity of an entrepreneur. If you register your entrepreneurial activities today you can get less than a day's work, well, I'm not saying get permission, I'm not saying get a room, and I'm talking about getting a formal registration in a few hours, you can't cancel that registration for years and months. People can't get into another job. And we said that entrepreneurial activity of a natural person is very often a temporary occupation. A person just doesn't have a job right now, goes out for six months, maybe three months to bargain. I bargained, I found another job, I had to stop fast. We've had this stopover for years. Why? And because a lot of our control organizations really want to get some small funds in the process of this liquidation. And it's going to be tested by all possible and impossible organs. As the natural person who is an entrepreneur recalls, he is responsible for his activities with all his possessions. Thus, even if we stopped its activity quickly and efficiently for an hour, it does not mean that it is not responsible for its previous activities. If there is any debt or liability, he may be presented with these obligations, even if he is not an entrepreneur now. Because he bears this responsibility under the law. So my proposal is simple and understandable. You don't need any extra checks. That's the way it's supposed to be. I wrote, "They're going to stop doing it at will." I put it on the registrar, the registrar, if the document is properly drawn up, immediately registers the termination. And it's directing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u191	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u192	And it sends information electronically to all interested bodies. All of it. So we're going to make an appropriate dynamic that will ensure that entrepreneurs are at peace and that they are able to quickly enter and exit the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u193	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, from the professional Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Politics, speak Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u194	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, personally you and the secretariat for introducing this bill and the following Kseniya Lapina on the closure of the business by natural and legal persons. I would like to stress that all MPs know that the world standard is out of 100 percent of open business per year 50 percent closed. This is normal. Because entrepreneurship, it's the same talent as everything else. And not everyone can stand the competition, or wrongly choose one business or another. Today, Ukraine has the most difficult system of business closures. Kseniya Lápiná’s bill offers a very important opportunity today for individuals who, according to economic or family conditions, cannot continue to be entrepreneurial, who announce that they are closed, who have the opportunity to become part of the Employment Fund. They can come as a hired person to another business. But I emphasize that all of his debts to the workers, either to the State or to another entrepreneur, remain with him. That is, if there is a draw, he is obliged to extinguish it. And this is a very important step today to help people get busy. Please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u195	Thanks for the show. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up. The word is given to the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u196	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. If it's very concise and concise, then it's a very timely bill, a very proper bill. But when the author of the legislative initiative came forward, such a small, impromptu discussion arose as to whether or not it would affect those people who were hired by the entrepreneur, since they could make certain commitments on wages and so forth. I found that language goes to a bill that only applies to individuals who are entrepreneurs who don't have employees. So actually this is the only moment that could be, let's say, a discussion, it's falling away. On the other hand, I can't help but say that when we talk about business activity, it's often an abstract question in our sense, in terms of Ukraine. Business activity depends on how mobile it is, how dynamic an entrepreneur can be, first of all, a job seeker looking for himself in a particular area of entrepreneurial activity. So the bill, once again, is correct. And so on, the next. The less arbitrary procedures there will be and the more for the subject of the entrepreneurship of the claimed principles, the more the business activity of our citizens, the more the economy will develop. There are some technical notes of scientific expertise, but they're completely technical, and I think they'd be taken into account, more precisely, not taken into account, but corrected already when the technical legal refinement is to be carried out after adoption in general. I don't see, for example, any objection when we vote to vote in favour of this bill, both on the basis and in general. He really unties our hands and makes our entrepreneurs mobile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u197	Thank you. Please continue the topic of National Deputy Momot, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u198	National Deputy Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, 27th District. The one who closed the company once would vote in favour of the bill with two hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u199	With one hand, it is desirable not to violate the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u200	I won't interrupt. But all the warnings given by fellow MPs can be taken into account in the second reading. Therefore, I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading and to apply for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u201	Thank you for the constructive presentation. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Martinyuk, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Paul Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u203	Please turn on Paul Kirilenko’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u204	The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, Clothing, Paul Kirilenko. We know that for many years Ukrainian entrepreneurs have been looking forward to facilitating the closure of their entrepreneurial activities. It's very necessary for Ukrainian society, it's very necessary to stimulate its own development towards entrepreneurial activity. Because it's clear to everyone that those people who are afraid that they're actually going to burn up on the case and then shut down their activities for years, they're not going to risk and go forward, they're going to move. Unfortunately, today we can't exactly vote on this bill, but in any case we will support it. And we're going to demand that a lot of other bills are adopted in the Supreme Council today to develop the Ukrainian economy today and the middle class today make up more than 50 percent of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u205	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u206	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u207	Please turn on Paul Rosenck's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u208	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I'm going to name a couple of these interesting numbers. According to both projections and analysts in Ukraine alone, more than 40 percent of the Ukrainian economy is operating in the shadow sector. Each year, between 140 billion and 160 billion dollars of wages are paid in this area. This is the core resource from which we don't pay taxes, we're losing funds to the Ukrainian Pension Fund, we can't pay adequate salaries to budget workers, pensions to pensioners, etc. All of this is due to the fact that in recent years business has actually been driven into this shadow economy, corruption, bribery, too high regulatory pressure, pressure on all spheres of business, starting with the establishment of the business, ending it by liquidation, extremely high, business activity in Ukraine, on the one hand, seems to be high, because jobs and jobs are, but the legal sector of the economy is quite narrow. And that's why now, after the change of power in society, including business, there's great expectations, there's a great desire to work and take advantage of its potential right in the legal sector of the economy. Therefore, we should not waste this time. We have literally a month or two to avoid the frustration of society to adopt all necessary business deregulation in the fight against corruption. And this bill, which was introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies, is very useful from the same point of view. That's why the strike faction will definitely support him and expect his approval.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u209	Thank you, Your Honor, for the performance. He still insists on his speech by Vladimir Yavorowski. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u210	Fatherland just has the right to speak, which is why I'm going to take this minute. I never opened a business, so I never closed it. But as an MP, I know very well what it is, what a heavy load it is. Let's say a couple of U.S. Ukrainians that I used to cook with Ivy in the early 1990s, go to Ukraine, open businesses, start a business, then you can move yourself. And some of them actually took our word for it and came here, and they really did start a business, but some of them flew from America and Canada for a few years to close their business. And as long as they didn't pay the bribe, the sums they really didn't call, until then they couldn't close. Because of this law, even from this example, I personally, and I think the Fatherland is going to vote for it. Because it's a simplification, it's a relief to the business atmosphere in Ukraine that's long overdue. This law really needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u211	Thank you. I hope the Supreme Council will uphold this important law. And, dear colleagues, notice how many important laws we've discussed today -- this is a matter of deregulation, it's a question of simplifying business procedures, it's a question of protecting investment and investors. And it's very embarrassing that our colleagues are too busy celebrating these holidays that they don't have the opportunity to come and work in the Supreme Council. All these questions could not only be discussed today but also accepted. So I'm asking the secretariat to record who we're going to have at the conclusion of a meeting in the hall so that others can see their names in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine when they're not working in accordance with their obligations to the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, pay is self-inflicted. Dear colleagues, we are also continuing the issue that we have just discussed – the consideration of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons (registration of State Institutions and Simplification, Restructuring, Sorry, State Institutions and Simplification of Legal Persons). Please, Xenia Lapina will report this question. Registration number, I recall, 2121-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u212	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill applies to legal persons. I point out that in recent times, dozens of government authorities have been created, eliminated, reorganized. Even now, the Ministry of Industrial Policy is being reorganized. I already want to remind you of a tax administration that was eliminated, created by the Ministry, now the Ministry in the process of liquidation. The previous tax service is being restored. And so on. We have dozens of examples of such violent creativity. However, I would like to remind you that the vast majority of these authorities are the founders of various forms of farming: institutions, organizations, businesses. And there is a serious problem today with the state registration: the liquidation of such enterprises, institutions, organizations, because if the body that is among the founders of such an institution or enterprise is in the process of restructuring or liquidation, making appropriate changes to the establishment of documents of such a legal person, it is virtually impossible that this is prohibited by law. And we have a bunch of these misunderstandings when it's gone, but it's formally there, and it's hanging out in the register, and in that way, it's generating a lot of pressure, especially for all of these registration records, especially. But I point out that the same problem arises in legal persons, subjects of private law, because if one of the founders is in the process of reorganization or liquidation, there are also problems with the introduction of such a person’s legal documents. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u213	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u214	In fact, the whole project is designed to make the procedure for making changes to the law-making documents of such persons transparent, clear and unambiguous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the Kugel Alexander Volodymyrni Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u216	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that when we considered the bill, there was an alternative bill from the next government that narrowed it down and allowed it only to adopt simplified procedures for state-owned enterprises. I want to thank today's government for not submitting this bill, once again, because my colleague Kseniya Llapina's bill is more extensive and more relevant to today's business environment. But I want to emphasize the very important direction of this law. In fact, today there is great speculation about the liquidation of state enterprises. I've met some businesses that are being cut down -- you listen! - 12 years. The person who's being appointed liquidator, he's creating on the basis of his own private business -- and the process of liquidation doesn't end for decades. And that's why I think it's very important -- the adoption of the standard: clear deadlines, clear controls, and a clear state position on the part of closing down the business and controlling how assets are distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? None. It is clear that I understand that the hall fully supports it. Yes or no? This is an important issue, it needs to be solved, and we will be grateful to many thousands of Ukrainian entrepreneurs and citizens. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the continued use of agricultural land (registration number 3316). Reported by Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u218	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The Law on the Permanent Use of Agricultural Lands, number 3316, called for two strategic tasks: to achieve stable leases, to promote sustainable land use. It is proposed that mandatory land quality control be established, which should be carried out once every six years at the expense of land users in laboratories accredited according to legislation. Control will be done by three indicators: the content of gum, potassium, phosphorus, which will allow more control over the rational use of agricultural land. It is proposed to reduce the number of essential terms of the land lease agreement from 11 to 3 principals, namely: the lease facility, the lease period and the rental fee. Such a proposal protects landowners and renters from the unnecessary paper work imposed by existing legislation. It is proposed that the minimum lease period for agricultural land should be set at least 12 years. This minimum period is set to take into account the scientifically sound duration of the rotation of individual crops, which will enable stable leases. It is also suggested that a purely monetary form of land leases should be introduced. This is primarily necessary to protect the rights of renters. Quite often, tenants abuse the commercial form of accounting by counting landowners with agricultural products that are not of good quality and at high prices. The adoption of this standard will not prevent farmers from buying grain from renting money. In this way, we protect both sides, since land use in money prevents conflicts and misunderstandings. The next innovation in the project refers to the possibility of renting land in private agriculture. The current legislation does not prohibit land rentals in private agriculture, but it does not contain clear arbitrary standards. To address this issue, it is suggested that the right of members of such farms to transfer land to leases be more clearly regulated. It is also proposed to publish information about owners of such land users on the public cadastral map of the State Land Agency. The map already works on the Agency's website, but it's only available.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u219	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u220	Thank you. Only data on land parameters. The publication of information about owners is a widespread international practice that prevents abuse in the land market. Given the importance and urgency of adopting this bill, I ask you, Your Honor, to support it. As a member of the committee, I would like to point out that the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 20 November 2013 has considered a draft Ukrainian Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (on the continued use of agricultural land) (number 3316), submitted by me and my committee colleagues. The committee noted that the proposed changes would contribute to the rational use of land and did not raise objections during the discussion. As a result of this bill, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Oleg Ivanovich, also reported from the profile committee. Would you like to discuss this? Yes. I see this desire in many deputies. Please sign up. The Marcinki People's Deputies faction "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u222	Please give it to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u223	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u224	Alexander the Peace All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, honourable reporter, distinguished colleagues, indeed, the question raised in this bill is extremely important and relevant. And we see an attempt by the author of the bill to put together a lot of questions and try to answer those questions that concern the agrarian community today. And the novels that are set up in this bill, they're very much accepted by both the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union and the party's supporters. But I want to point out that if we propose in this bill to introduce concepts that are solid, to introduce the concept of control, to introduce the concept of responsibility, then we have to say in the bill that this is how we stop or cancel the act of the Singing Act so-called. In addition, we need to be more specific about all the positions that are proposed. Not enough, we have to give people an answer that's more open for 12 years at least. Because many of the owner of the pies are causing this, this rule is disturbing. So we're ready to support the bill in the first reading. And we're going to insist that for the second reading, all the suggestions that we're making, and I'm sure, will be sounded by our colleagues, introduced and accounted for. Because this bill is urgent, relevant and very principled. We shouldn't be wrong about him. Because APC's mistakes then the whole country hangs out for a very, very long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next performance by National Deputy Brichenko is the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u226	Please give John Grigorovich Kirilenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u227	Please turn on Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u228	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, I support my colleague at Peace, which is a very important law we are considering today. And he deserves to be discussed and supported. In a simple and easy - to - understand language, what is the purpose of the translation? It's a law on deregulation, de-bureaucratization and de-criminalization, at large. Because it's the main thing -- it's cleaning up a huge corruption component. This is because the standard of land use for agricultural production in line with the projects is being repealed. It was very good, they say, a norm, a good wish, which simply turned into regular propaganda and a banal withdrawal of money from the agrarians. The price of the issue is about 4 billion corruption dollars. Next. This law removes the provisions on the list of subjects to which land of agricultural use is transferred to ownership and use. Legal persons are given the opportunity to have on the right to use land handed over to individuals for personal farming. The number of essential terms of the land lease contract is reduced. The discussion norm for 12 years of rent, this is really a discussion, we need to look at why 12 at the committee meeting in preparation for the second reading. There is also a controversial norm for renting land solely in monetary form. Not always peasants agree, not always, especially in non-fertilization years they ask for products. In general, the law is interesting, important. Similarly, we served with our colleague Mirny and colleague Kaletnik, with his colleague the apostle, Brichenko, to present an appropriate bill that envisions both deregulation and simplification, and especially cleaning up the corruption component. Let us prepare it for the second reading, and we will accept it for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Guzenko, the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u230	Thank you. Deputies! I want to complement my colleague. Indeed, it is noted that the bill suggests that land that is passed on to natural persons for personal farming may then be made available to legal persons. This proposal is not in line with the appointment of a private farmer, his legal status as defined in the Law on Personal Farming. Therefore, the request to take these amendments into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u231	I got the offer. Please, People's Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u232	Thank you, Mr. Head. Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, this is really an important bill for agrarians. And the Economic Development Group will certainly support this bill, because it regulates the problems that have now arisen in villages that are quite numerous. On the one hand, he protects the renters. It's in the vast majority of the least secure layers. On the contrary, I'm sorry. It protects those who rent land -- the peasants, the least effectively provided for the population. On the other hand, it also protects those who invest in this land, those who cultivate the earth. What novels are proposed in this bill? First of all, the positive point is that it cancels the obligation, as has already been said, to develop land-use projects that provide economic and environmental justification for the summation, and a number of documents that are necessary to make the lease. Colleague Kirilenko has already talked about the amounts spent on collecting documents in order to make a lease agreement, and the actual ones that are consumed by corruption. So according to the experts, I want to give you a different number. In fact, experts are now the only ones who think that in order for Ukraine to collect all the documents to make their leases, they need to spend not much, not little, but over 100 million dollars. Think about these numbers. This is more than $100 million that everyone needs to spend, those who want to make leases, and to collect the paperwork by paying for it. Next. This project is very regulated and regulates the minimum period of the lease that it will be. Is it going to be 12 years, as the author suggests, is it going to be less than 6, 7, 10, we're going to solve this on the committee. Other positive changes, they can also be resolved at the committee level. So I call on all factions, all groups to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Catherine Vaschuk requests one minute for an important performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, indeed, there are many good standards in this law. But there are standards that are controversial. And the second reading. It can be accepted, except in the first reading. Second reading should regulate all standards that protect the rights of those who rent land. For 12 years, a person rents a lease, something fails, some serious violations are allowed by the person who has taken it, and he cannot break it. Perhaps at the time of change or the right to defend a peasant’s rights. And here is a chemical analysis, mandatory every six years, made on gum, phosphorus, and potassium. Where are the nitrates, where's the nitrogen? This is what is most harmful to people, especially children. So the law and a number of other things.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u235	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u236	Which should be worked out and then it'll be in line. Thank you. First reading only.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u237	Thanks for the offer. Conscript, one minute, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, the bill regulates, you know, private relations between people who have their own pie and the enterprises that lobby it. What are the problems in concluding a 12-year lease? Why regulate it by law? Limit the rights of thousands of landowners in favour of agriculture? Farmers can make a deal and make a deal, but they can make a contract for 12 years. That's why I don't think this rule is too good, you don't need to take it into account. There are many options when people rent out their pies, people can't handle it, they can't run agriculture, they're in debt for a year, for two, for three, and people can't take it. Then factors such as the sale of leased contracts. So I'm renting for 12 years, I'm selling it to you. This is such a new kind of land trade. This rule is therefore very dangerous, it cannot be applied, the law must be heard by the public, it concerns millions of pilgrims. Therefore, public hearings must be necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u239	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u240	The words "we'll settle everything on the committee" are very surprising. Well, let's hear people's opinions, millions of people and people all over the country, all over Ukraine, and they live in rural areas. Thank you very much. It's mandatory to hold public hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, I see that a very active discussion goes to law. Please, People's Deputy. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u242	Thank you. I want to support my colleague, who just said that there's no need for such a standard as a term after years, because if you take 5 years, we know that there's a conjunctural sum that's being adjusted today under market requirements and there's a scientifically sound sum. And if you take the North, there's, well, Polissa, the Center and the Steppe, it's all different seismics and there's a different set of cultures, and in one, in the other, we're going to have the pool for the second year, and in one seismic we can get it for the fifth to sixth year. So I don't think it's our question, it's the question of those who rent and those who rent. And I am deeply convinced that this terminology is 10. 5, 12, and so on, we have to throw it out of the bill at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u243	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. I think when we vote, we're going to be able to figure out what it is that we're going to do on the first reading of this project. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the next two laws, which are alternative -- 3216, 3216-1. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity on the Responsibility of Officials of State Authorities (Control). Please, at the parliamentary rostrum, I invite Fursin Ivan Hennadiovich, one of the authors of the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u244	The President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, the draft Act (No. 3216) amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity, on the Responsibility of Officials of State Supervisors (Control) aims to create a mechanism for the personal liability of officials for damage caused to the owners by unlawful acts of such officials. This problem is both acute and urgent. Thus, while it is determined by valid legislation that damage is caused by unlawful acts of officials, the authorities of State authorities should be compensated but not defined by a mechanism for compensation. It is also a matter of concern that the damage caused by the wrong actions of the official should be compensated at the expense of the budget. The introduction of personal liability for misconduct will create an additional mechanism to protect the owners from improper checks and illegal actions by the controlling authorities. Because at present, the damage caused by such checks and illegal actions from various accounts is billions of dollars that will never be compensated by the State. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues noted in its conclusion that if the bill was adopted, it would have no budgetary impact. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime noted that the bill met the requirements of anticorruption legislation. The Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Policy recommends that the draft law be adopted on a basis. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u245	Thank you, Ivan Hennadiovich. Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Agafone to report? Instead, it is reported by the People’s Chamber of Commerce. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support an alternative bill that I am now introducing. And thank you, Mr. Fursin, for initiating this subject. In fact, the subject is very important. It is the responsibility of officials for their actions or inactivity. Each of us, as a Ukrainian citizen, is accountable to the state, each entrepreneur is accountable to the state, primarily financially. At the same time, if the state is in charge of the law, the government’s budget does not in any way account for its actions or omissions. By our bill, we write in more detail the standards proposed by Mr. Fursin. What we're talking about is that compensation for damage caused by a State to a natural person or an entrepreneur is made from the state budget funds of those who are allocated to the relevant public authority. At the same time, we grant the right of a natural person to receive compensation from the State and oblige the State to regress these costs from the official who caused the loss. That's why I'm asking you to support all the factions and groups of alternate bills and to support, hopefully, the committee's decision, and to base our project. Maybe Alexander Valentine's Day, maybe there's some kind of authorship and Mr. Fursin in common so that the idea doesn't go away with the author. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, you have the opportunity to vote parliament to determine, and indeed to create one project that will generate the necessary number of votes when there is no contradiction between the authors' position. Please, Alexander Kugel, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u248	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, these bills have in some way broken the plan of our committee, which, once again, I refer to all the deputies, we have nine bills on the committee today that are amending the Law on Surveillance and Control. We've all introduced them as a second reading of a bill that we're prepared to report to you in the next plenary week, 0937. And so I ask all the leaders of any factions not to promote separate laws that are already prepared by one law to be purposeful. But as it has happened that we are looking at them, I would like to remind all the voters that the recent research for employers, the Federation of Employers for Supervisory Authorities, has shown that the 180 dollars spent in one test, 180 dollars in cash for one check, the state gets back 4 bracelets. We need to understand that most of the money, when we analyze the fines of the Antimonopoly Committee, comes to the budget less than 20 percent of the fines. I mean, it's a disgraceful practice: they're fines, then they're taking off these notes for some money -- and there's no efficiency. And so out of the two bills, the more professional and procedurally drafted bill that Oxana Prodan reported, and the idea was really the first one submitted to colleague Fursini, and I thank him for that. And I'd like all the MPs to support for the first reading of the bill by authoring, let's say, the strike faction represented him by Oxana Prodane, but also with the bill of colleague Fursin. Accept it in the first reading and in the brief procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u249	I understood the committee's proposal. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. I see two hands. Let's do it. Three hands, three of our colleagues, a chance to speak. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u250	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina, the city of Kiev. Society, we have two bills. They're both looking at the same thing: to increase the responsibility of our verification officials, let's say. If Fursina's bill cuts off her shoulders, that is, translates the full payment of the guilt, the damage caused by the controlling authorities, just on this controller, then the Agafone bill is kind of softer, like, a little bit more liberal, so I would say, because money is taken, a fine is taken from the budget of the same organization, but then calculated from the wages of the person who is to blame. And there and there it is that, of course, the person who made the mistake is the examiner, and that's very fair. I imagine, if, let's say, in Georgian legislation, this is the norm: the judge of the first institution who made an unjust, unjust decision, and then the court of the higher authority of the institution, let's say, annulled it, the non-executive service in the state budget is pulling out, let's say, damages, and on account of this judge who did not make the right decision. I think there would be much more order and much more responsibility. That's why I think it's very clever, and that's what Mrs. Kugel said, that they're not really very different. I think they're very easy to actually put together before the vote, these two bills. And all we have to do is thank two such despondents, the national deputy Agafone and Fursin for taking responsibility and preparing these bills, for which we are simply obliged to vote during the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u251	Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinski Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u252	Dear colleagues! I don't think it's worth discussing that an official has to be held accountable. And so that this responsibility for improper, unqualified, incompetent acts should arise. So let's say that authority should be an official in a developed country, but also a great responsibility. But I took the floor for another. Look what's going on. In fact, the two bills are correct, the ideas are correct, but here comes the head of the profiling committee, the honourable Alexander Volodymyrna, and said the systemic thing. So the committee has a system bill and ideas that are proposed today are only segmental in the context of this great bill. Well, we can't ignore the fact that national MPs are taking the initiative, with the right initiatives. I want to address all my colleagues and you, Alexander Valentinovich, as a head. In my time, I had suggested that there should be a legislative plan in the Supreme Council. You know, if we had a plan for legislative work. The same colleague Kugel defined her as the head of the committee, her profile committee, to address such a socially important problem in a comprehensive, systematic way, rather than separate changes to the laws of a thousand. And if other committee heads did that, we'd have a real opportunity to actually do legislation. I'd be able to plan my parliamentary legislative work. I could go through more bills. Think about them, analyze them. The result would be better quality. I realize that now is the time when everything is being rebuilt, when everything, let's say, is being set up like this. According to the Aitish, it is installed in the Supreme Council. But I suggest we move on to this kind of work, the legislative work plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, we have discussed this issue and I think the Supreme Council will be determined when voting on the fate of these two projects that regulate a very important topic. I am convinced that, at least in the first reading, the unified law of the Supreme Council could be supported. Dear colleagues, you and I have passed a law that we have missed, sadly, 4608. I ask, this relates to the draft Act amending article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase criminal liability for illegal placement in Ukraine of State symbols of other States). Please report by Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u254	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Dear colleagues and respectable citizens of Ukraine, I don't think there's much need to convince anyone to adopt a bill that provides for increased criminal responsibility for anti-Ukrainian actions. In this case, for the destruction of Ukrainian flags, for raising flags of foreign states in state institutions in the territory of our country. Look at the mess that is taking place in the east of our country today. When Russian divers use the local population to tear, stamp, burn, kill, and torture Ukrainian citizens for walking with Ukrainian flags. Instead, they raise flags of some nonexistent Donetsk Republic schizophrenic, Russian flags and raise such a fool over Ukrainian government institutions. Maybe one of us can imagine a Ukrainian flag being raised over the Kremlin. To make Putin with this man who would raise the Ukrainian flag over the Kremlin. At least he would have been wet in the dressing room, or sent to a shrink. And we find that normal when the Ukrainian flags are destroyed and no one is responsible. It's a crime! The Ukrainian state has a coat of arms, has an anthem, has a national flag. And the task of every Ukrainian citizen with respect, with patriotic feelings, is to treat his own flag. Just as all civilized nations do. Every house has a flag. Everyone has a flag on the balcony. What do we have here, peddlers?Oh, my God! They're pounding on the Ukrainian flag. And so I suggest to those who are stomping on the Ukrainian flag, let his feet dry. And before that, five years in prison. And then he'll know the second time how to trample on the Ukrainian flag. Glory to Ukraine! Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There is a need, yes. I see two hands. National MP, no glasses, Sobolev. Tomenko, I'm sorry, I can't see without my glasses. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u256	Dear colleagues! The bill is topical and important. But I want to point out that there are two problems here. The first one that the reporter picked up. In fact, it expands the criminal responsibility for abuse, contempt and abuse, as it were, to our symbolism. Instead we have, Alexander Valentinovich, today and another problem. I and my colleague Volodymyr Moysik in the Supreme Council have proposed a previous call to the Supreme Council, and I have been supported, and in 2009, we have a rule in the Criminal Code that provides for criminal responsibility for the abuse of the national symbols of Ukraine, the Flag of Ukraine, the Hymn of Ukraine, the Herb of Ukraine. Criminal Responsibility Under 3 Years! In three years. In view of this, it seems that perhaps we have not read the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which has been in force for almost five years, in the U.S. Attorney’s Office, in law enforcement agencies. Because the response to the situation in the East and the South and by the way, not just in the East and the South, I don't think it's appropriate. So today, if we see it on television, it shows that four men have gone to the district administration or the city. They took off their tridents, and everyone looked at them and said, "Get down, get down, and move on." Friends, I have a question, and then what does our noble police, the law enforcement authorities, do when they see it all happening. Once again, three years of criminal responsibility, one sentence. You don't have to make any laws. When we use national symbols to protect the flag of Ukraine, we are killed. Do you know they're already killing in the East using a flag? And we still have law enforcement agencies thinking about what to do -- arrest for killing for using the flag or not arresting. Soon they will kill for what we speak in Ukrainian. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, I think that as the next meeting we're going to meet, it would be necessary for law enforcement to report on the implementation of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u257	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u258	Thank you, colleagues. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. A very important bill, and our group will support it, we absolutely share the motivation of our colleagues. And I fully agree with National Deputy Tomenko. That's right. We should not just criminalize everything in a row, we should still check how many people are involved in criminal responsibility for criminalizing certain activities. We can make the Criminal Code another volume. But crime, especially the crime we're talking about right now, is not going to go away. Because it was supposed to say that 3 or 5 years, you have to bring this to an end, find criminals to work with law enforcement, and be really convicted by the courts for this crime. And then they'll be afraid. If we simply write it down in the Criminal Code, but we will not, it is said, catch them and plant them in places of deprivation, no one will be afraid. They will be afraid of a state that not only criminalizes activities but ensures the detection of crimes and the involvement of the guilty. Therefore, the issue of criminalization should be addressed in close cooperation with the prosecutor’s office and law enforcement authorities, who should report on the number of persons involved in criminal activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u259	Thank you. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u260	People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, along with the criminalization of certain norms, I would like to point out that we have other characteristic problems on Donbas. I was there for a long time, working there for a long time. And by associating with the people of Kharkiv, Donetsk, Luhansk, and others, he came to the conclusion. Our main enemy is not Putin and Russian aggression, our main enemy is the mistrust of the inhabitants of those regions in the new power. So once again, on the tenth, I'm noticing, there's the Anti-Terrorism Act. Article 4 of this Act states that “an anti-terrorist activity in the country is carried out by the Government of Ukraine and is personally responsible for these actions by the Prime Minister of Ukraine.” Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk is to cease to be exclusively the ambassador of Ukraine to the International Monetary Fund and to begin, plan, agree, and carry out complex measures related to the announcement to the people of the East of basic principles and concrete steps, reform programs including the region. The other one. Practical things are to be done: the outgoing meetings of the respective ministries of profile are to be held, and the exit meetings of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council are to be held. We have to open maps, plans for people who live there. And so that those people could see that they were in those plans and that the new government and the new authorities came not to occupy corruption schemes and corruption in Ukraine, but to fight corruption, including in the East. Then we'll have no rallying precedents, no strikes by miners, no metallurgy, anything like that. These steps must inevitably be taken. Otherwise, just by criminalizing individual norms, we won't change the whole situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u261	Thank you. Galina Black, National MP. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u262	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, of course, the Freedom faction will support this bill, but the latest events show that it is on time. Just a few hours ago, news agencies spread information that the city council of Mariupol had just returned, literally recently hung a Russian train. Of course, after the Geneva negotiations, six days have passed since the Geneva Convention, and we see that the situation in the East is not calming down. We see that in the East of Ukraine today there are a number of unexplained officials, including Communists, from the Party of Regions, who are contributing to the spread of Russian symbolism. Similarly, we see that Russia does not implement all its agreements that were declared at the Geneva Convention. Today and still we are being approached by separatists, led by FSB agents who are causing disturbances in the east of Ukraine. So the only language Russia understands and is understood by separatists is the language of power. That is, it is very good that this law is decisive and that it introduces criminal responsibility. We also need to learn from the Northern Neighbor of this determination, from which he often acts. Remember, when the occupation's foot just got up on the Crimean Peninsula, the first thing they did was shut down all of the Ukrainian television channels, but it took us a few weeks to do the same. Therefore, determination must be what we need to be guided in today’s environment. And of course the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom will support this very relevant bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u263	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we have discussed this issue, an important question. I hope that the Supreme Council will decide how to vote in favour of this bill. Next question, dear colleagues. Come on, we're working on a reduced procedure, with a reduced procedure, 4 we're speaking. Again. Name of the deputy tell me. Debtenko. Turn on the People's Deputies' microphone for 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u264	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I hope, however, that in the future you will be treated on the basis of equality, on the principle of equality to all representatives not only the majority but also the opposition. On the subject of this bill, I would like to point out, honourable colleagues, members of the people, to examine more thoroughly, to make a legal analysis of the bill, because the high-ranking reporter, the author of the law of the legislative initiative, pointed out that criminal responsibility is imposed for the illegal placement of administrative buildings. Thus, the hypothesis in the corresponding article is spread not only to administrative buildings but also to the whole territory of Ukraine. Literally, based on a literal analysis, the drafter proposes to bring criminal responsibility for illegal placement in Ukraine of state symbols in other countries. What does that mean? Illegal placement. These might be the cowards at some match, it might be on Maidan, it might be here in Mikhailovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u265	Just give me half a minute to get a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u266	It's probably in the Mikhail Square there, the United States, Georgia, and so forth. There were also a great many people in Euromaida with flags from foreign lands. If we are talking about inadequacy and not supporting the inadmissibility of being placed in administrative buildings, please let the author of this bill specify that the State institutions say one thing and in the bill predict another. I'm talking about what's in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u267	I got the offer. Please have one minute to ask the author of the bill for comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u268	I'm special colleagues from the Party of Regions who don't know what illegal placement is, and I'll give you an example. In Gorlovka, the deputy of the Gorlov City Council, Vladimir Rybak, defended the Ukrainian flag. Janukovich's gang killed a man for it. Instead of the Ukrainian flag, the Russian flag was erected over the administrative building of the Gorlov City Council. They're also illegally raising flags over the interior ministry, the security service, and so on. Therefore, until the second reading in the opposition’s dignitaries, if they really care about Ukraine, rather than being the fifth column here in Ukraine, there will be an opportunity to redraft the bill, to make their proposals, which, of course, will be taken into account when they are right. At the same time, I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine, not to be a tool in the hands of separatists, divers and those who want to split Ukraine and rob Ukraine of its independence. Each of us should be a patriot of our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we go to the next question, 2450 – registration number, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (to ensure employment of the rural population and to maintain the social sphere of the village). Please, the author of the project, National Deputy Opanaszenko Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u270	Dear colleagues, I'm a Hungarian deputy from Hersonschi, co-author is Rybakov, he's from Chernigovishka. But as with you, there is one big problem with you, everyone in the district is the employment of the rural population. Of the thousands of working people in each rural area, only 150 or 100 are officially employed. Of these, 90 percent are school workers, kindergarten workers, or the village council. We can say that unemployment has reached its peak, and we have abandoned people on their own. In the past, rural areas were inhabited according to the arrangement. Every village council ruled the land. This land served as a social function. Now what's wrong? Our crops have increased in relation to the Soviet Union, technology has improved, the cost of production has decreased, and the social function of the land has ceased completely. There are gardens in which. They found a clean house and made a garden, and in some there is no way to take their children to the garden, and they lead them to the house, and they are raised there. That is, the land has ceased to be the source of taxes that it should provide to the village and rural councils. The main coming is a tax on natural persons, i.e. wages. What's going on? The land is distributed between three or four people who rent pies, they pay people rents, they pay people fixed taxes, it's a very small land tax, and they don't care at all about hiring the rural population. They're taking them, if people start talking about what they're doing officially, they're taking the bus and taking people out of the village. You don't want to work, you don't have to. Young people do not have a sure job, and they do not even have the motivation to learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u271	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u272	There is no confidence in the future. What is proposed? Using 25 acres [25 ha] to create jobs in an orderly manner, you use a thousand acres [1,000 ha] of land, divide it into 25 hectares, and have 40 jobs to create at a minimum wage. If you don't want to, you can pay for the country council budget. This will provide a small village, like a thousand inhabitants, with 50,000 to 70,000 a month. That's when we're going to have a village head not become a working beggar, a volunteer who's growing into tractor farmers who's asking for gifts to children, he's going to be a fund manager, and he's going to do his job directly, as well as a village council MP. This is a very important bill. The lobbyists of the farm will tell me immediately: "We limit the rights of enterprises." I want to say the next thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, give me half a minute, because they've taken the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u274	Tell me, please, before there was a complex agricultural farm, that is, a mechklon, some mill, were farms. Now they've processed the land. We've gone into town. And who's going to create all these businesses where people are supposed to work? Yeah, really, one tractor is now replacing a few of the old ones that were. So run the agriculture complex. We have land, it's Ukrainian wealth, and there's no one else in the country. And unfortunately, there are no jobs to move to cities. Please support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u275	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss? Please sign in. People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u276	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Clearly, the issues raised in this bill are still relevant, important. And thank God that the Supreme Council finally came to these questions. Clearly, the issue of job creation in the country is not today or yesterday, not even yesterday's issue. It's a constant question. Clearly, the state has moved on. It is clear that today those "monsters" who are on earth, who are mainly processing land, are not interested in reducing their profits, not interested in creating new jobs, if this does not bring immediate, stressed, immediate economic effect. But the question is: Why should we be attached to 25 acres? Why not by twenty or thirty? Maybe we should go the other way anyway? To tie, for example, the number of heads to the size of the earth. I mean, we have to make a clear link between what the author of the bill says is absolutely right. We have to go deeper. We need to develop, renovate. Because chicken or porking is not all animalry. The world’s primary emphasis is on cattle, which is a clear attachment to the hectare, which is a clear attachment to the workplace. And we need to be very clear about and very careful about these issues. Because we should not, I repeat, as in the previous bill, should not be mistaken. Because we can't fix it any more. And we need to explain clearly to people what we want to say by this bill. That's why we're talking. If necessary, we accept in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u277	Thank you. National MP Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u278	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to convey the word to the man who has devoted her entire life to saving the village, the representative of Fatherland, Mr. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u279	Please turn on John Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u280	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. This is the second time you've given me your word today. I'll try to get back at you next time. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! A very difficult situation that moved not only my colleague Opanaschenka but also many others today to propose the following agrarian laws is understandable. Not only am I surprised by the statistics that show today that Ukraine, by unemployment, is one of the best today, even in the European Union, if it were a member of the European Union. But six and a half million peasants received a pie of land. Five million have been leased and are not considered unemployed. But these five million do not have a steady job. And that's scary. The village is singing. So to the novels in this bill that the author was talking about, I would like to add one more thing. We have 15 percent of the land that is cared for by four million rural households that is now essentially feeding the country. These include 90 percent potatoes and vegetables, 82 percent milk, half meat, and eggs. That is, supporting farming continues to feed the country. So, dear friends, let's work together to work out a law that would allow a private farm to enter into the labour market on the condition of a small payment to the Pension Fund, a small payment to apply not for a minimum pension, but for an increase. Let's solve this global problem with these norms that are provided for in this law, you're probably not settling the situation. Let's take a closer look. The author’s commendable desire, but it is still necessary to look at the problem more widely. In fact, the village is singing, it must be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u281	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u282	Please give the word for a broader view of this problem to Catherine Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u283	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u284	Thank you, Oleg Alexanderovich. Indeed, the subject raised in this law is vital. But the bill that was raised is not decided by the law in full. There are good ideas in previous presentations. Indeed, keeping to the changes where there will be decaying cultures, not just grains, corn, and sunflower, will take up part of the labor force. Animal development is very important. Because it's not just the workplace, it's the shit, it's the gum. And third, what Ivan Grigorovich said. I'm sorry that my bill was not supported in this regard, where I asked you to register this work in rural farms for internship. But there's another nuance. 9 hectares to create a job, and to set a standard, since the village is tax-free and only small wages, the land-based rate of social contribution is not less than 100 dollars at the expense of the village council to create rural service infrastructure and create jobs. This will be much more effective. And I think that if this bill, as the committee recommends for further work, we will bring our ideas to it. And he's really going to move something out of working in the country. Because there's trouble. The young village has been abandoned. Whoever's left with men is singing. People survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u285	Please, one minute, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u286	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, I'll tell you how to save the village. First. We need to start with the Supreme Council. To reduce to 200 people the number of Darmoids, to send everyone else to the village for a potato to the village. You take a pike, you take a rake, you know, which way to go to that miserable cow?Oh, my God! And there's a cow in the village for the whole village. And before that, there were three cows in every yard, and there were three cows in my backyard. That's what you Darmoids led the village to! And you've been saving him for 23 years, saving him and saving him! You're going to blow yourself away from what you're saving, and the village is going to die. So rescue the village alone. This is a radical change of power in Ukraine. It's the responsibility of power. It's a tax drop for peasants. The farmers who work, Mikhail’s colleague says, have arrived, one tractor has driven, 2,000 hectares have worked and given the peasants a blow. That's it! And 800 bucks on a pie. And you have to leave some of the earnings in the rural budget for the social, for the kindergarten, for the water, for the gas. That's when the village won't even die with you darmoids. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u287	I understand that Mr. Lazko meant that there were no national MPs who didn't systematically come to Parliament. I see. Dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter, and now we will not vote. One minute, please. This is when we vote, I'll give you one minute to speak. Dear colleagues, I ask that we be able to discuss another draft law – the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (for land formation and their state registration on the basis of documentation with the land structure developed before 2013). Please, the apostle’s national deputy. Registration number, I'll remind you, 2193a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u288	Michael the Apostle, 166 district, Ternopolish, faction of the Fatherland. Dear Head, dear colleagues! From 15 to 20 percent of Ukraine’s Blacklands, Ukrainians, according to various estimates today. Lands don't have technical documentation, they don't have the passport that you can work on today. What I mean. Today, as a conclusion, when the technical documentation is not made, when the land plot, the pie is not assigned to the cadastre number, it can't take the extract, it can't rent it, and the state can't afford it, the tenant pays the income tax. Today it's about a million acres. Today, these are billions of unpaid payments to local budgets. Bill 2193a deals with this issue in some ways. The draft was designed to protect the interests of persons who had begun to acquire land in ownership or use and land of state and municipal property before 2013. But given the legislative changes that have taken place, you know, in 2012, they didn't make it to the end. For various reasons. First of all, this procedure was extremely expensive. Second, it's hard and complicated. And thirdly, so far there is no understanding between the State Cadastre and the State Agency. Yes, on January 1, 2013, the new article 79-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Land came into force. The article defined an exclusive list of land administration documentation on the basis of which land is formed. Such documentation is defined as land-use management projects, technical documentation with a land structure for land-sharing and land-unification, and a project by a land-based organization to organize the territory of populated areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u289	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u290	I'm from the committee. It should be noted that by 2013, the vast majority of land areas in the process of being privatized free of charge by Ukrainian citizens had been formed on the basis of technical documentation with a land structure for the production of documents certifying ownership of land. A large portion of this land administration documentation was developed by January 1, 2013, at the expense of citizens. However, the decision to transfer the land to the property of the authorities could not be made for some reason before the specified time limit. Today, these citizens, mostly socially vulnerable citizens, are forced to exercise their right to acquire land (pau) as ownership or to redesign projects by the land administration, which, first of all, is much more expensive documentation, and second of all, have a very complex order of agreement. According to previous estimates, the total number of such citizens is estimated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u291	Let me finish. Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u292	In order to ensure the rights of these citizens, it is appropriate to allow them to transfer land on the basis of technical documentation already developed. The Special Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that a bill be adopted as a basis. I'm asking you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u293	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? None. There's a need. Please, please, I can see Catherine’s hand. Come on, turn on the Vashtuk microphone. And I can see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u294	Thank you. In fact, the bill at the time is very important, and in order not to bother colleagues, I support it in the first reading, some legal nuances will have to be worked out, strengthened, but the bill is very necessary. That's why I'm in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u295	Thank you. Be an Asca, turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u296	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, Kyiv, the Party of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in this room, my calculations say, "The village is dying!".. In the '90s, in the early '90s, the head of the church kept saying, "The village is dying!"because the money had to be knocked out, let's say it was on its own farm or on its own district, and the village was both dead and dead. Because the money to, directly to the man who worked on the earth never came, in an extreme case, to the center of the last crumbs. And today, in the last few years, literally over three or four of these money actually didn't even come out of Kiev, they didn't even reach the area, they were decimated right here. One more. Here, a colleague of the apostle’s said that at one time the government was not working there to complete this process of drafting these land documents. Then, indeed, remember that Julia Tymoshenko tried to publish these documents free of charge to the villagers, but it was blocked in places, at the district level, at the district level, no one wanted to do it because there were documents on the ground, no more hands on this land, let's say there were no district officials or district officials. Because of this, everything was done to ensure that the earth was not formed. I'm saying that before the adoption of this law, it's still promoting land reform, which is so painfully prolonged in Ukraine, which actually has no impact today, we've just discussed employment in the village, that there's absolutely no utility services in the village today, there's no mastery in fact, there's nothing. Because I think this bill is very necessary, that's why. And he will indeed be promoting land reform, and it is very important for Ukraine, if we are a literate, new government, a new government, if we are literately going to make it logical, if not complete, then at least we're going to go to the right direction. It will help Ukraine in a colossal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u297	I've got the position. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u298	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom," of course, supports this bill, because it really simplifies the process of registering land for our peasants, because the problem in the village today is that, in fact, those who live on earth cannot form, cannot act on land in time. Instead, those Latin Funders, the oligarchs who have the potential today for thousands of hectares, are very easily molded by corruption, because today this system is very bureaucratic. In general, given that today, really, a lot of valuable bills, we should definitely vote in favour of any bill that allows today to simplify the procedure for residents of the village and to form an inheritance, to form a land registration, to form an assignment. Because that's what people say at meetings, especially with the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom, with the people's deputies, with the head of the faction of our Oleg Tuggnibok. And at each of these meetings, that's the question. And we have to do everything we can to get these issues into the agenda, and they've voted, despite the fact that these maybe changes aren't systemic, and they're partial. But today the Supreme Council, it has to vote in favour of such bills, and unfortunately today many of our colleagues have not taken part in the discussion, have not taken part in the vote, because in fact today we need to vote in favour of these bills, we need to do everything we can to make people feel that the new coalition, the new power, the new government can actually work and work for people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-24-m0.u299	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed many questions with you. I very much hope that we will have the opportunity and all of these issues to vote effectively. As for our further work, we have discussed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions the question of the future work of our Parliament and introduced, I think, a very good and important proposal, which I hope will support not only Parliament, but also many millions of our citizens. Today our citizens are deeply concerned about the constitutional changes, the constitutional reform that Parliament has begun. And that's why there's this proposal on Tuesday, April 29th -- we can't take too long breaks in our work because it's too difficult and dangerous for us both in Ukraine and around Ukraine -- and that's why we can't take a long time apart from the parliamentary session, the proposal: on April 29th, on Tuesday, hold an open parliamentary session in the form of public hearings to discuss changes to the Constitution. We would publicize this issue, we would invite Parliament and well-known constitutional law professionals, and representatives of public organisations and associations, representatives of the regions, including, because the question in the Constitution is one of the main issues: the extension of the powers of the regions, the creation of all conditions for development and self-implementation. Moreover, constitutional changes will also address judicial reform, and many other important issues that should unite the whole country today. And that's why, dear colleagues, I am now adjourning the meeting and announcing that the Supreme Council will continue its work on 29 April at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Good-bye. [[B in m in s a l in]] After the 29th, when Parliament adopts, let's work it out, let's take a look at the situation. Good-bye.
