ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Traditionally, while the deputies are preparing for registration, I inform you that today is the birthday of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Blaujko Mikhail Vasilovich and Tabojnika Jakov Pinevic. [[Applause]] Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:09:03]] There are 339 national deputies registered in the hall. We're opening our morning session. Dear colleagues! We consulted with faction leaders before the start of the extraordinary session. And given that we have information from the Secretary of Defense, many of the provisions of this information are of a purely secret nature, there is a question of ratification of laws, and regarding the follow-up of their implementation -- and also the information that is closed. There are other issues that we will also need to discuss in a closed regime concerning the work of the Cabinet of Ministers, the principle legislative initiatives of the government, etc. Therefore, honourable colleagues, you are being brought to your consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to hold a closed off-limits plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Please sit in your seats and support the 4400a draft Order for today's closed plenary session. Please, Your Honor, support the offer. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote on the basis of a closed meeting as a whole. Please vote. [[10:10:53]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, we also have a desire to take part in the debate and vote on this issue by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Peter Alexiovich, please. I ask the secretariat, there is an opportunity, given that this part of us is going on in open mode, to invite media representatives to the hall. Please, National Deputy Stec. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u3	Alexander Valentine's Day, we need to announce at least 10 minutes of recess, because physically journalists won't come in until they get through the frame and everything else. [[B in m in s a l in]] They will not physically enter the hall easily.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, journalists, I've been handed over, they're already in the towers, they're getting pulled up. The president came in, but we can't take a break after that. Dear colleagues, regarding the procedure for dealing with the matter. I propose that, without discussion, he be voted on in order to make a decision, and that each faction will be able to explain its position in an informative manner. Peter Alexiovich, do you have a few words? Please turn on the microphone of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs, government officials! Well, in fact, it's hard to hide a positive feeling from the fact that the Supreme Council has just been able to vote on laws that are very important to the state. I congratulate you on that. [[Applause]] And I'm happy that this is the result of our joint efforts. The Constitutional majority of the Supreme Council's vote under this law strongly affirms that today the attitude of the people's deputies towards Ukraine, the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian army does not depend on whether there is a coalition in Parliament or not. [[Applause]] I'm sure that the efforts that you've just made to date, by ratifying the very important agreements with Australia, with the Netherlands, which will ensure the transparent work of experts, the safe work of experts on the scene of a terrorist act is also very important to us. Today, 70 million dollars is spent by Ukraine to provide an anti-terrorist operation. Our Armed Forces have been successful in all directions, in all sectors of effective action by Ukrainian paratroopers, special forces, motorcycles, border guards, and other Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian heroes. And the fact that we have strongly supported them today is a guarantee of our common victory -- the victory of Ukraine. Yeah, that's what I had to do as President, as Prime Minister, and as faction leaders. But we have demonstrated that the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Parliament can be the only one, and this unity is the guarantee of our victory. And I have no doubt that we're going to demonstrate it in the future. Yes, early parliamentary elections are a reality and it's not because any of the national MPs, politicians or officials want them to. This is because 80 percent of Ukrainians demand it. But it will not, in any way, interfere with our effective work with you. This is a question of our shared responsibility today. And, of course, nobody today is having a hard time: neither the Prime Minister, who assumes a huge part of the responsibility, nor the parliamentarians and every national MP, is the President. But it is far more difficult for Ukrainian heroes today to defend the honor, independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of our nation. And I'm convinced that today, when we have these challenges, we need unity, we need a reliable government. And I am confident that our joint and effective cooperation of the President, the government and the Supreme Council will certainly bear fruit today. Our consolidating interest is the only European Ukraine. The great goal is to inspire great things, and the willingness of the President, the government, and, as demonstrated today, the Supreme Council for command work is obvious. And I'm sure, and I urge Parliament now to vote on, in fact, the confidence of the government to demonstrate this obvious fact. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we go to the vote, you see, we've been joined by independent media representatives, and I'm going to give them information about our work. We've heard, honourable colleagues, information from the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the situation in the anti-terrorist operation area, passed the whole draft law, sorry, the Ratification Act of the Agreement between Ukraine and Australia on the deployment of Australian personnel to Ukraine in connection with the fall of the Malaysia Arialines. We have adopted, as a whole, the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on an international investigation mission. We have adopted, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other Ukrainian legislative acts (for the improvement of their individual provisions), we have adopted, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2014 (for the correction of project indicators, more specifically, the State Budget of Ukraine). And we have decided to re-read the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on reforming the system of administration of Ukraine's single gas transport system. Dear colleagues, there is now a proposal to make a decision to the Supreme Council regarding the statement made by Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine regarding his resignation. After that, I will be able to give, after this vote, the word of Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk, because I am confident of what will be the result of the vote now. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine the statement made by Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:49:58]] For-16 The decision is not taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Parenthood – 0, Party of Regions – 2, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 0, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0, Freedom – 0, non-fractional, I understand that it is mainly an ex-faction of the Communist Party – 14. Dear colleagues! I would like to hear from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, whom I now give the floor to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u7	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Mr. Head, the country's distinguished national deputies! Today, there are two news items in the world economy. The first news is that Argentina has announced the default, and the second news is that Ukraine has not announced the default and will never announce it. [[Applause]] Thank you for your work, and for your next meetings at the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-31-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I propose to support our government and Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk with applause! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this is where the Supreme Council finishes its work. The next meeting will be in accordance with the approved Parliamentary work schedule.
