ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:25:44]] There were 315 national deputies registered in the hall. We're continuing our work today. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, Dimitrik Mikoli Ilich. Hello, Mr. Mikola. () [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the international day of my mother tongue. No, it's not. It's also a good day for us today. Dear Society, we now expect our authorized representatives, appointed yesterday by the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, to serve as Minister of Internal Affairs. They will provide us with information today about the first steps that have been taken in these directions. A large package of bills and regulations that we have today are being prepared. So I'm asking you to give us until 11 o'clock so that we can start the plenary session at 11 o'clock. I'd like to ask you to take an 11-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u2	Respectable Parliament! I suggest we stop the tradition once again when something is done. Let's open a meeting, every MP has something to say, we'll work half an hour, and there is a Parliament to speak up. Do you agree? Please, Mr. Chairman, I very much ask you to hold a meeting right now. Mr. Kosulinski! I'm asking you to hold a meeting! I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, and we will begin to work and make decisions on the most important issues on which the situation in our country depends. I am sure that we will act both effectively and effectively. Another Hermanovna, do you want to provide any information? Please turn on Inna Hermanovna's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u4	Honorable colleagues, a respected Ukrainian community, a respected Ukrainian Parliament! I have a great heartfelt request: to understand Parliament's responsibility to the whole society right now for there to be a city where there is a law that has equality of rights, democracy. Therefore, I very much ask Parliament's leadership to forget at all about such a notion as breach of the Rules. If we say 10 o'clock, it should start at 10 o'clock. I want to remind you that in my own time, if Mr. Ribak didn't cancel Wednesday's meeting, maybe we wouldn't have 100 dead if Parliament were to meet two days earlier. Really? Isn't that right? So I'm asking you very much, Your Honor, our leadership, but what we have today is that it's all temporary, let's put the letter in the letter, a minute to do everything that's written down in our laws. Do we have to change them? Let's do this together, is there a need for a break? Please ask the room. I don't believe that this hour could be considered, for example, a hundred elections to the local authorities, where people are waiting, and we've voted at this hour, and we'd be able to remove the tension in a hundred locations. We've got a lot of work to do, we've got jobs to do. We cannot allow ourselves to be so superior again today, both to the will of the deputies and to the Parliament. And the last. I'm asking for your attention, dear fellows! I know that each and every one of you knows what immoral trades have begun again in Parliament. I know that each and every one of you knows that there is again talk about money for joining groups, for meetings of MPs and for factions in positions. Again, do not bring God! –The Ukrainian Parliament will become a corrupt centre for politics and for business, the whole country will rise! I want to tell everyone today that subterfuge politics is over, everything on the table. And if we were all afraid to talk on the phone yesterday, because we had "lovers listening to everybody," the time would come when we would ask everyone to listen to the phones, because I'm sorry, that's the hamster, and I'd say otherwise, it's going on. Get your conscience together!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u6	I want to turn to everyone who has not yet realized that if they don't return to normal, right and right relationships in society, people will come again -- and they will sweep parliament away as they have crushed the President. They're people who don't even know what's happening in society right now! Corruption, if she's in parliament again, she'll cover everyone. So I ask no one to engage in these conversations or on these bribes, the politicians who are now applying. If we don't change the country, it'll never end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u7	Please turn on the microphone of MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u8	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I am addressing you today: after 12 hours of voting for the election of the city chief of Kiev and the city council deputies and appointing them on May 25 of this year, to unify the election of the president and the election of the city's head and city council. That's going to save a lot of money first, and on the other hand, it's going to save a lot of money. We've seen the level of self-organization in Maidan, and I think there are new authorities, people with higher education who have declared their civic position, and I think their role will be significant for the organization of a qualitatively new level of self-government in Kiev. And make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u9	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u10	And to make a decision about the restoration of the election of the deputies of the district councils of Kiev, because, I'm sure, there will be a different organization of work and organization of life in the areas. I think the example that we saw when people united with the idea could ensure the life and functioning of the city center, convinced that this enthusiasm, if it was already formed in the form of a legal, stately, convinced that it would give a different form of organization of the city’s life; and we will see a completely different face to our capital. This, by the way, will be an example for all of Ukraine to make a change in the system of authority in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a request. You and I have invited our colleagues who were assigned to positions of responsibility yesterday: the Acting Minister of Internal Affairs of Avaków, authorized by the Law Enforcement and the Henprocurator—Krembiekki. The situation is very responsible and tense in Ukraine. There is an offer to allow them to speak in five minutes. Ask the factions one question at a time. And when before making a decision. The honourable national deputies will want to discuss the matter and make an offer, we will do so. I'm the only fellow I'm asking. We've got MP factions, we've got committee heads and committees. And let's not vote out the order of the day, but because of the faction leaders' councils, which work every morning and virtually until evening, or through committee leaders. As a matter of urgency, decisions were made and the order of the day was formed. Now. Do we have Mr. Nadjajchenko? Yes. Valentina Alexandrovich, please come to the microphone. In a situation in the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and dear citizens of Ukraine! As authorized by the Supreme Council to monitor the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service, I'll inform you of the latest era in which the security of the country is taking place in our country. Question number one. Yesterday he worked with the mandate of your distinguished national deputies. The Security Service doesn't have a head, there are no first deputies, there are no executives. The only deputy who was in principle in the building and was in the military service, namely, performing military statutes and laws, is Mr. Porodíkko. The head and his first deputies turned off their phones, left the place of military service on their own. Management of all: from Crimea, Donetsk to Chernigov - have been disconnected, without guidance, without plans to protect nuclear objects in our country, from objects of mass meetings of our citizens, I no longer speak of kindergartens, schools, "Dniproges" and everything else that is for every professional who assumes responsibility, wears military uniforms and receives military title from the people of Ukraine - question number 1. Second, dear friends. I'll tell you the second question. On behalf of the Supreme Council, I urge all today that the Head of the Supreme Council, on the basis of the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, bring to the attention of the people and the Parliament of those people who need to be immediately entrusted with the responsibility for security, to be in their offices in their workplaces and to stop crime, to restore the security of every citizen and finally to restore the legitimate activity of ensuring the security of people and objects of increased danger, personal responsibility and accountability in Parliament. Third. My proposal, dear friends to each of you, is that, after the appointment of the entire Parliament, such leaders will report daily on the security of the state, on the safety of every citizen's house, on the safety of the national MP of everyone who comes and works, on the safety of every civil organization of activists wherever they are. Thank you all for your attention. I would ask for a consolidated, secure, responsible decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u13	Wait a minute. Valentin Aleksandrovich, we agreed that on one question from the factions. Please sign up, colleagues. Please, it's from the Fatherland faction, Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic. And I would ask, one minute, our technical staff to turn on the broadcast of our meeting on the street so that those who stand by the Supreme Council can hear what we're talking about, what we're working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u14	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, today we hear, from one source, that someone is trying to break out of Ukraine, trying to leave this bloodied land with their hands and hide in our good neighbors or elsewhere. I believe that today one of the tasks that the Ukrainian Security Service, as well as the Border Service and some of the other authorities, should immediately address this is to block any movement of funds in Ukraine's banks. To immediately go through diplomatic channels to our Western neighbours to block the funds, even though to that group of people who have already been identified -- the 25 first people who are now known to have done all of this in Ukraine. To stop any border crossings are official and unofficial. Because today they are like rats running all over the earth, and then they will be out there, tempting, criticizing the actions of the new authority that remains.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u15	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u16	. which, without money, should keep all the order that should be restored here. So calmly, but balancedly and clearly, we need to take these first very important steps. Mr. Valentine, you know the service. You know, she's accumulated a lot of material from both. So be determined, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u17	Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear Mr. Volodymyr! I will report to you yesterday after the decision of the Supreme Council, and I would like to thank all the deputies who voted in favour of the appointment of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, an inter-ministerial meeting was held at last. Specific operational, operational and technical measures have been taken since last night. First. To avoid leaving the territory of Ukraine to criminals who shot people or gave orders. The other one. I'm preparing a submission, and I'm asking you to appoint the Attorney General to demonstrate exemplaryly that the new majority in Parliament knows that legality is above all else. It is through him that legitimate sanctions through the holdingfinmonitoring, through other power forces to stop both the looting and the laundering of funds, and to remove them from the treasury of Nazbank and from other places where it is to be saved, because it is national money. And the third. I believe that determination is sufficient, and I report that there are free cameras near the Banger.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u19	Allow me to finish the speech. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u20	At Pukach, who is sitting, and you remember how it was, the cells are free for war criminals, and no one has a hand to shake. But it's the law, it's the court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u21	Please, Agaphonova, People's Deputy of the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Chumaku Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u23	Turn on the microphone of the Chumak People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u24	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, faction of the political party. Valentina Alexanderovich, I, I have two small questions. The first question, but important, I think. Please tell me, have all operational accounting matters been saved, especially in the last period? Are they not destroyed by the Security Service? That's the first question. And the second question. Crimea Tatars are now well - planned in Crimea. Is the Security Service ready to respond to the situation with the IMF if there may be provocations in Crimea, in line with this course?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u25	May I answer that, Mr. Head?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u27	Dear Victor Vasilovich, dear colleagues! Let me tell you, starting with the second, the most important, question. The security of the Ukrainians in Crimea. Thank you to every deputy, Mr. Mustafa Jamileva, Mr. Victor Chumak and everyone else who worked with me today, with the Commissioner, on this night. All the measures that had to be developed were designed from the point of view of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Security Service. Moreover, I report to the people of Ukraine and to the honourable Supreme Council, the meeting last night took place with our strategic security partners, the representatives of the Russian Federation, including everything related to security and citizens, the military, and this country in Crimea. Our responsibility is the safety of everyone. Our responsibility is to show other standards of expertise, which are high and understandable to our neighbours, including in the East. The second question. Victor Vasilovich, I report essentially. Whether they have been destroyed or not, the cases against us, the national MPs, I cannot report. No operating unit is subordinated to any authorized unit. That's why my first call was to figure out who that person would be, who would stop the destruction, who would publish it. I'm even looking at this half. 30 seconds, professionally. I'm sorry, I'll be very brief and professional. They will publish which one of us is being listened to and continue to listen illegally, which one of us is being led by illegal surveillance. With regard to any of us, the criminality of growing up with law enforcement officials is waiting in the areas of Ukraine to organize provocations. A professional response should be given to the one who has the right to administer the security authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u28	Please, National Deputy Shevchenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u29	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u30	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, in Crimea we know that separatist sentiments are developing and they are being blown up by the head of the RC Supreme Council and the head of the RC Mogilov Council of Ministers. Will the U.S.S.S. react to these separatists as soon as possible? That's the first one. The other one. During the crossing of the state border, Pshonka and Klimenka opened fire on Ukrainian border guards. The U.S.S. must respond and break matters on this matter. Third. Two people were killed, four injured. Where the former head of Crater's Mills and that S.H.I.E.L.D., what actions will be taken to punish this criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you from the last question, how many deaths there are. The man who gave the order and those who carried out the crime shot people — war criminals. They are to be detained by the military prosecutor’s office and the new management of the B.S.A. to provide all kinds of support by ensuring their safety before the court, everyone who shot them. Question two, I report. All about the guards and Ukrainian citizens who held the highest positions in the state is the truth that they open fire, their protection when their border guards are legally asked to show their passports. This is therefore a matter of national security now in order for the Attorney General in Ukraine to appear and determine the legal sanctions. Third. I report, I believe that the issue of security of Ukraine now and of the administration of state protection, the leader must immediately change the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prohibit the use of weapons, including this unit, regardless of the circumstances. This is a security situation in the state. Separatism. Yesterday, as an authorized officer, security officials today closed the criminal investigation that was being reported to people. Criminal conduct was closed, promised and told of to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u33	Please, National Deputy Tihypco Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u34	Valentin Alexandrovich! First of all, I'd like to state that we're opposed to any kind of separatist action. Whoever is doing this, I think, is an enemy of Ukraine or something, and needs to work with him in accordance with Ukraine's laws. But I would like to address you with a request of such, now coming, virtually all of Western and Central Ukraine's self-judicial members of the Party of Regions, who have not committed any violations. And one of their faults is that they're members of the Party of Regions, the cases are just scary, from burning houses to making a statement with a knife to the throat about getting out of a faction. I would ask, I think that revolutionaries should protect order and the country, not rob and demean people. I'm asking you to join me in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u35	Dear Sergey Leonidovich! Dear National Deputies! I tell you this: the security of every citizen, I believe and sincerely believe, must be ensured regardless of the political views, the language of communication. It takes courage to say and do everything. And so I'm going to report to you that, as promised yesterday, and I, as an authorized Supreme Council, and the Minister of Internal Affairs, have met, opened the door centrally, and met with all the activists, protesters, all those concerned, uneasy, invited themselves, and we think that through a genuine partnership, dialogue with these people first needs to restore the rule of law. Restoring when they are not afraid of anything and trust that no one in their pursuits will shoot them or their friends. But people in pursuits need to be given popular trust. But a painful path, because of mutual trust, is for a partnership of communication and leadership, including in law enforcement agencies, to recruit new people. I honestly believe and remain in Parliament for this purpose, in order to vote with you in favour of carrying out the illustration set by Parliament, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u36	Please, from the non-fractional Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Mr. Valentine! I know you, knowingly voted for you yesterday and hoping that Ukraine's Security Service would really be the Ukrainian Security Service, hopefully that's what it will be. And now I have two questions: first question -- did you say that in district administrations right now, actually, disorder, virtually demoralization, degradation, I don't know what else to call it? Please tell us what is being done to make such objects strategic, such as: AES, atomic rectors, hydraulics and other important strategic objects were still under serious supervision not only, but protection because without it you understand the security of the state can't be? And the second question. I've always viewed security as a derivative of many factors, including peace, order, in one place or another, in one village or another. Kiev is the capital, and from here there is a multiplicity of tranquillity or anxiety throughout the country. You had a meeting last night, and I know you and the Ministry of Internal Affairs have all figured out that Kiev is actually going back to the city of order and tranquillity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. I report to the Supreme Council, the security of nuclear facilities and other critical infrastructures in our country, the management of the HQ yesterday was abandoned along with their abandonment and shut down. The services have shut down the whole connection, from phone to personal. Anyone who can report anything else, please come to the Supreme Council and report to us. They don't show up. Thus, the answer is: Immediately take responsibility for the parliament’s return to human leadership or for the assignment of responsibility for the safety of these objects. I turn around, and I am confident that simple workers, not deserters, are left behind, and provide, despite or without even the direction of funding and other aspects, for the safety of these objects. Whether this is 100 percent or not, both the Supreme Council’s profile committees and the new leadership should be checked. As for the interfaith meeting, it's true. Thank you again, Minister of Interior Arsena Avakov, thank you to the national deputies who attended this meeting, and I believe that there is a need to expand the practice so that all national deputies can attend such meetings, especially at this time. Security in Kiev, along with the troops.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u40	Security in Kiev, along with the National Self - Defense Teams, along with the communities that were protecting their own areas from car fires, is recovering from last night. My phone works 24 hours a day, as does the minister. So far, we don't have any other options and subordinates. We have our phone, we ask for the support of the Supreme Council to have more authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u41	Thank you, Valentin Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the General Prosecutor’s Office’s Commissioner is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, as soon as the plenary was concluded yesterday, I held a meeting in the Attorney-General's Office with the Attorney-General's deputies. True, not all the deputies showed up for this meeting. During the meeting, however, the authorities of the prosecutor’s office found out how they were working. According to the Attorney General's Office, these district attorneys are, in fact, those who have suffered the damage, they work in other premises, but in general the prosecutor's office works in places. So during the meeting and today, yesterday after the meeting and today, specific work and specific tasks to be carried out by the prosecutor’s office have already begun. This is, first of all, the investigation of the facts of separatism -- the commission to do so. These are cases of secession and criminal cases, they are the defendants, according to the Criminal Procedure Code, the prosecution's authorities, to take all immediate measures to ensure that all and all procedural measures are taken to prevent the perpetrators from leaving the country and possibly to ensure that the criminal cases are investigated. There was also a commission to investigate the attempted use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in mass action. Besides, what's important is an organized investigation into the mass murder of people by senior law enforcement officials. As of today, an investigative and operational group has been set up to investigate the particularly important issues of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service. All of these killings that took place in Midan, they were previously scattered in separate criminal cases, in different ways, they were carried out by the internal affairs authorities on a grass-roots level. So you understand that the police were investigating cases where the police were killing people. I have been instructed to refer all these cases to investigators from the particularly important cases of the Office of the Attorney -General of Ukraine and to be united in the same conduct. Today, all of these matters are united in the same conduct, and investigations are carried out, not in individual killings, but in the case of mass murder. As I was just informed, because I had just arrived from the Attorney General's Office, yesterday we were working until three o'clock in the morning and today from eight o'clock in the morning, which has already taken appropriate procedural steps to cover up the possibility of leaving the suspect's border, preparing to announce the suspects and to announce the relevant suspects in the search. In addition, I was informed yesterday that in the Hmelnicki district in town of town, representatives of the public were detained in the premises of the parents of the deputy head of the security service of the Ternopil area, a van full of weapons and ammunition was discovered. In order to ensure the processual removal of these munitions, instructions were given to the deputy military prosecutor and prosecutor of the area, who took place and provided for the processual removal. And this weapon, as the deputy head of the BSS explained, belongs to the BSS in the Ternopil region. It was delivered to the Ternopil area.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u43	Thank you. Please sign up for Oleg Igorovich. Please, Your Honor, give me more hands than the MPs. Brigitte, National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u44	Brigitte, Fatherland faction. Please pass the word to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u45	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I have two questions. First. What is the situation now with our decisions regarding the release of detainees? And the second question. Is Pshonka, Klimenka, and Yanukovich located? If Pschenka and Klimenko were allowed to give orders to shoot Ukrainian border guards, why are they still not detained or taken precautions regarding them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u46	Regarding the second question, I have already reported on it. I mean, as far as the last part of my report is concerned, it's been introduced. Last night, there were measures taken, criminalized, and a tracking and operating group is working, which is taking appropriate procedural measures. Including their detention and their delivery to court. As for the first question. The question was also considered. I've given the commission to all the persons who are under guard to be released immediately from custody. This includes a lawyer named Smaliya, who has a long history of criminal activity. [[Applause]] In addition, a commission has been given for persons for whom criminal conduct has been violated. Where there is no evidence that there is insufficient evidence that they are guilty of criminal conduct, they are closed under rehabilitating circumstances. It's not the Offence of Criminal Correspondence Act that we've adopted three times, but it's basically criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u48	It is on the basis provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code on rehabilitating grounds. That is, they must be vindicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u49	Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Jurek Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u51	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u52	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Oleg Igorovich, I'd like to ask these questions. Now what steps does the prosecution take and take steps to stop the alienation of national property through accounts, through banks? And are there any steps taken to arrest those family financiers, such as Sergey Kurchenka, leader of the WTEC Group, who in a few years became a billionaire? And the second question. Could the prosecutor’s office have the effect of releasing other political prisoners, such as Vitalia Zaporoznik, Father and Son of Pavlíčnik and others, besides yesterday’s Yulia Timoshenko? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u53	Of course, I will do everything in my power to ensure that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office carry out their functions as provided for by law. At last night's meeting, I made it clear to all the Attorney General's deputies that their work from this day forward would be quite different. Because in our country, we have a very different society and very different requirements. The Public Prosecutor's Office should perform those functions that are provided for in the laws, not to perform any political or other orders. As far as the facts of the alienation of property are concerned, of course, appropriate measures will be taken within the scope of the criminal case that I have mentioned. And if other facts are known or reported, of course all appropriate measures will be taken. And the others. As far as looking at criminal cases is concerned, it'll be one of the same tasks. Not only those who were illegally brought to criminal responsibility during the events in Midian but generally in all cases where innocent persons were brought to criminal responsibility would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u55	All measures envisaged by criminal law will be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u56	Thank you. From the non-fractional, please, the People's Deputy of Godoslovak. And I'm sorry, we haven't had a question yet from the People's Deputies of the PALAMARCHUK Faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u57	Please tell me, is there a single state register that works today and is there a problem with the new Criminal Procedure Code?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u58	The last question is, is there a problem with the new Criminal Code? It's like a theoretical question, isn't it? How practical? Of course, the problems with the new Criminal Procedure Code are and I've been working on the Criminal Procedure Code before, a few months ago, as the first deputy head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, I've sent out all the heads of the local authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the heads of the courts and the Tax Service to make their observations and proposals, and I've got work to do, analysis of those proposals to prepare an appropriate draft of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. As far as Register is concerned. That Register didn't work yesterday. It turns out that he didn't work for anything because yesterday, when investigators were called in on particularly important matters in order to investigate people's mass murder, it turns out that the Register doesn't work. But he was already working this morning. For whatever reason, he did not act. Well, we can guess.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u59	Please turn on the microphone from the nonfractional People’s Deputy Godoslovak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u60	Thank you. I will ask the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk with the same request. There's information that Kurchenka's companies now have more than 100,000 tons of oil in Ukrainian businesses that are being smuggled. We ask urgently, now will be a request to the Attorney General's Office and to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and to the Ukrainian Security Service, we ask that you immediately file a criminal case, it's an official statement on the commission of a crime, please bring it to the Register and immediately arrest these assets, because it's state money. Besides, there's a debt owed to Kurchenka by Naftogaz to a billion 600 million. Please do a background check on whether there is a fictitious debt and verify these facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u61	Of course, all the reported facts, either by any means or by delegation, will be submitted to the Register and investigated. And appropriate measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u62	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u63	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. Attorney General, I've registered with the Supreme Council a bill on the release of prisoners, but I'm dusting you without waiting for the decision of the Supreme Council, and I'm handing you over a list of prisoners -- that's also "Vasilkian Terrorists," and "Romanian Defenders", and the Pavlicians' family, and Andri Shamanov of Donecka, who are being bullied by the poor for three years for nothing. Take steps to get people released. And one more thing. I think that the entire Supreme Council will support me, we ask you, on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens, to immediately arrest and bring to court a precautionary measure in the form of custody of former President Yanukovich of Ukraine, to announce in search of former Prime Minister Azarov, First Vice-Prime Minister Arbuzov, Prosecutor General Pshonka, Klimenko, separatists Dobkin, Kernes, Constantinova, Mohilov, Golenka, Pristuk, Kravchenka, Klavva are all the people who robbed the country, Portnova.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u64	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u65	. Portnova, Lukash are all the people who robbed the country that led to the bloodshed. Take immediate steps to ban them from going abroad, to detain Gilin, Oplet, the Kharkiv organization that beat our people yesterday. Yesterday in Lugansk they beat the people of the Ukrainians. I ask you to act decisively, radically and ruthlessly to the enemies of the Ukrainian people and to the enemies of the revolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u66	With regard to the rehabilitation of prisoners, this is a job that has been commissioned in this direction. And also with regard to the investigation of the facts that took place during Maidan. And other abuses of the former regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u67	National MP, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u68	Dear Oleg Igorovich, I'd still like to ask you to give me, I'm next to you here to give you, perhaps, a commission or a request, I don't know how you're getting out of your jurisdiction. But last night, night and this morning, a lot of people called me from my hometown, Kharkiv. There are misunderstandings about attempts to take over a district government building by unknown people, about beating up people who went out on the Midan, about other violations. I would ask you to intervene in this situation, find guilty people who today continue to destabilize the situation and to suggest, well, certain negative moods in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u69	Your information, I took it down, will be taken into account and will be checked accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u70	Turn on the microphone of the Polochaninov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u71	People's MP Polochaninov. Oleg Igorevich, I have a request for you. Meetings, meetings, the prosecution's penal functions are all very well. But I would like to ask you every single one of your speeches here to start by announcing the names of the people who were detained during the protests and are now released. So that we can know who these people were and that they're already freed. This should start with every single speech you make here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u72	To this day, almost everyone has been released. I mean, under the watch, as far as I know, there are three people. And this question is going to be resolved in the first, I said, so that on the first day of work, tomorrow, Monday, so that the question is decided not to keep them under guard, but to get them released. And as I've already told you, all matters have to be reviewed. If, in fact, there is little evidence that these persons have been released if there is no evidence that such persons are justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u73	Thank you, Oleg Igorevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u74	Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u75	Please perform the duties of Minister of Interior, Avakov Arsen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u76	Good afternoon. Honorable Ukrainian People and Honourable Deputies! The situation in the country is tense, and there can be no other situation after the violence that the previous government has committed against the Ukrainian people has given us. Let us briefly report the emergency. A meeting was held last night with the Attorney General's Office, the Bureau of Public Security of Maidan, including Self-Defense of Maidan, hundreds of Freedoms, the Right Sector, other departments. Advice on the promotion of public order and the protection of public institutions. Appropriate decisions have been made. Today, on the streets of Kiev, you see a joint patrol of the Ukrainian militia that has moved to the side of the people and the self-defence of Maidan. The other one. On the eve of February 22, an appropriate decision was made, which is what the Attorney General now said. Now 64 people have been released, 3 people will be released by appropriate decision taken by the prosecutor's office, and the corresponding courts will be released on Monday. These citizens were detained, taking part in protests in the country last week. Third. I've been disbanded by the IMF College, and I've been assigned a new composition by the Ministry College. I have been assigned to the departmental investigation into a number of employees and officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the UIA in the areas where they have acted in recent times. Together with the Attorney General's Office, we will make appropriate decisions on the results of the investigation. In particular, I will note that, along with the GPI and the BPO, a meeting has been held, and my colleagues have already talked about this. Topic: "The interaction of law enforcement authorities with regard to resonant crimes against the Ukrainian people, including on the part of the former agents of the State." A number of appropriate operational measures of response have been adopted. Taking advantage of the opportunity to reach out to the people of Ukraine, each of the deputies and government officials present. I ask each and every one of you, along with the Ukrainian police, who have gone to the side of the people, to build a new system of relations in society. No hysteria, no anarchy, no robbery, no assault on citizens, no assault on the MPs. Stop the senseless grabbing of the authorities. This government is already your authority. This government is a power that is born and needs support. Now we don't have time for destruction, now it's time for construction. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sign up for the question. Please, Alexander Kugel, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u78	Arsen Borisovich, a big request to you, there's a lot of phone calls and information coming from the Donetsk region, Luhansk, Crimea and Kharkiv, where local authorities, or some politicians, are starting to arm the aunts. This is the scariest, because there have been people there for so many years under the authority of the Party of Regions. Take control, and today I texted you about Simferopol, where they honor the memory of the Tatars to ensure order there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u79	Thank you. We know about this situation both in Donetsk and Luhansk and Simferopol, especially in Kharkiv at night, the IMF's employees intervened in the situation. I believe that the organs of the IMF are now under control, and we will do everything we can to prevent this confrontation from giving us a new outbreak of conflict. Including in Simferopol today, we know the situation, we will do everything we can to ensure that the conflicting sides of both acts have no reason for the conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u80	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u81	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Please tell me, we are pleased, I think we have all heard of your night meeting together by all the ministries of power and intelligence that you are turning to the people and giving instructions to ensure peace and peace in the state. Is there any efficiency from your facilities? Because, unfortunately, the country and the premises are being destroyed, and people are continuing, for unfortunately, the war with the monuments, including the monuments of the protectors of the country during the Great Homeland War, continues, threats, arson, and everything else continues. I mean, how effectively do your subjects take your actions in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The situation is tense now, I've told you. But yesterday we understood each other, and I think today we're going to have a public statement on this issue with a view to putting an end to such aggressive acts, including with regard to public premises, including attacks, including the violence of public institutions. I think you'll see today on the streets of Kiev and across the country joint patrols, where you'll see that this is going to be a non-opposing party, it's going to be one side, they'll be joined by the Ukrainian State Flag. And I think in a day or two, we're going to stop the upheaval and the violence that we're causing in the last few days. If something goes wrong, we'll intervene, and believe me, we won't let people get shot or attacked, and we'll stop this nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, the people's MP of the Parasks, the faction of the regions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u84	Paraskiv, faction of Party regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u85	I would like to refer to the leaders of all three force units, not to repeat the mistakes of the predecessors, not to include the punishment vehicle on one hand. You are not the heads of individual units in some area of Ukraine, you are today the leaders of all the forces of Ukraine. What do these mistakes lead to? A fresh example, he hasn't left yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u86	I'm, uh, thank you. I heard you and I'll tell you what's right for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be able to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u88	I heard you and I'll tell you that it's principle for me not to do what was before, not to do selective justice, and I'll tell you, as a member of the appropriate faction, that yesterday at Simferopol Airport there was a detention of a fellow member of the Kaletnik deputy, there were some questions for him. And we didn't support this detention because it has MP immunity. Ukraine’s Laws Nevertheless!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u89	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Schweik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u90	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. Arsen Borisovich, we have a number of issues that have been related to the actions of the former management board, such as the investigation, and more specifically, the simulation of criminal cases involving automobile arson, property destruction, the threat of violence. The epicenter of such events, unfortunately, was our own Kharkiv with you. I'm not going to talk about my car, but it's just like me and John Varchenk in that way. First. What kind of investigation? And the second question. Who are currently coordinating between the self-defence forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Today. I think there's been about 10 phone calls tonight. Who coordinates the activities of hundreds so that we can set up this process and give people a clear answer so that there is no self-government on the part of the centurions, and so everyone next doesn't say that I don't know the previous one, that we can do it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u91	Thank you. Today, I'm going to have a report by the Head of the Kharkiv Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the events that took place in Kharkiv in the last day, including last night. He will also report on the events you are talking about. I think we'll make a decision. I think there'll be a service investigation before the decision is made, and then there'll be an appropriate decision. As far as coordination is concerned, there is a member of the College, the newly formed College of Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Mikola Veliczovich. He is the focal point for interaction with the public sector of our sector and with self-defence, with Freedom, with the Right Sector, with others. I think it's going to work 24 hours a day. It's a hotline. I can give it to you and we can stabilize the situation in two or three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u93	I emphasize that there are people on the streets who are either self-defense or Freedom, or the Right Sector, or the Left Flag, and they're doing the daily robbery. We won't let that happen. We're going to put an end to this, and that's what we talked to the Maydan public defenders yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u94	Thank you. The question is asked by the Chumak People's Deputy, the Strike faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u95	Arsen Borisovich, I have three questions. First question. What steps is being taken by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to protect the documents held yesterday and today in Medjugorje? Has criminal conduct been violated regarding the finding of a very large number of these documents, indicating certain crimes? That's the first question. The second question. Word has just come that Lugansk is being armed with the "tiffs" and is being ordered to arrest our head of Luhani's SERPOKRILOGO. I ask you very much to react to this very quickly. And the third question. Yesterday, Kerch had the same situation: 300 armed aunts together for. Armed. For the support of the mayor and the chief of police, civilians were attacked. Please tell me you need to react very quickly and very hard. All forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u96	Thank you. As for the documents, you came to me on a break here now and we talked to you that we would now take the appropriate measures urgently. Yes. As for Lugansk, there were events last night when we were told that some. Some protestors, including some of them. Which was represented by "BACK" and they were trying to capture the state administration. We've had a conversation with you, with your party representatives, and we don't want that to happen. This has provoked, I understand, some conflicts have been triggered. We are now, today, including I invite you, let's deal with this question, and remove the tension. There won't be any arrests for "inco-industry." This applies to your point of view, and this applies to the point of view of other colleagues. We will respond to an exclusive violation in accordance with the law. It's about Kerchi. I'll get right on it, let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u97	Thank you. Zarubinsky's national deputy from the non-faction party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u98	Thank you. Arsen Borisovich, I'm inspired by your optimistic mood. I think there's some reason underneath it, even if they do, these are the reasons. But I have two specific questions. Please tell me, what's going on in Kiev, for example? Is this a boycott from the State Automobile Inspectorate? There's no DAI in town. I remember a good experience a few years ago when they canceled so, you know, off the threshold, DAI and how many injuries there were, how many fatal accidents there were. What's going on with this? And the second moment, I think it's important enough, even though they're not paying attention to it. You're talking about joint patrols. In fact, I don't see DPS in Kiev either. Joint patrolling of the State Patrol Service -- the militia -- and the self-defence representatives, and so on. What's the hierarchy in these outfits? This is a very important question. How will they work? Because frankly, the level of trust is not always high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u99	Thank you. As far as DAI is You will see today that the DAI will return to Kiev Street, and only in the center of the city will we see that it will be the DAI, which will carry the rotation along with the Self - Defense. Regarding other areas: DAI will be a full - time minister. This is also true of the DSO authorities: about rotation, about joint patrols. There are government institutions, they're key. Therefore, the Ukrainian police, who have moved to the nation’s side, will carry out their duties. There will be a transition period that we are now experiencing when trust is zero, as you said. But it's going to be a long time, I think, and we're going to restore that trust. We have examples. For example, last night, the self-defence squads, along with the police, carried a watch on the Cabinet of Ministers. It's fine, it's fine, with renewed trust. We also hope that this will be the case with regard to other positions. Give me a day or two, let's rebuild trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u100	Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Viacheslav Kirilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u101	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear Mr. Arsené, three questions. First. Is there already one person or a group of people who directly shot citizens on the Istituto Street, on Wołodimirska Street, on Gruszewski Street? Or established unit commanders, whose gunships were used to shoot defenseless people in peacetime right in the middle of the white day in the streets of the capital city of Ukraine. That's the first one. The second question. As authorized by Parliament, do you know the exact location of former President Yanukovic: Ukraine or outside Ukraine? As well as the whereabouts of Zacharychenk and Pschenka. And the former ministers (formerly, because they ran away and generally like the U.S. Which one of them is in the country, and who has fled abroad? That's the second question. And the third. In the tone of a ton. Pass it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u102	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u103	And the third question. On the border there are tons of compromise. Well, not compromise, but detection papers for the former tyrant, and tons of artistic values: paintings, icons. All of this belongs to the Ukrainian people. Did you take this situation under investigation, investigation and control so that all of this, that the documents about the theft of funds became subject to investigation and the stolen icons and paintings of the Ukrainian people were returned to the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u104	Thank you. I'll give you a quick answer. Who shot? We've got some operational data, we've got an investigation. I don't think you can say anything right now. I think we're going to take it and we're going to do it as publicly as possible with the Attorney General. Wait, as publicly as possible, we'll talk about it when the right decision is made. We don't have names right now that we're pretty sure of. But we have some work to do. The other one. Where is the President, Zacharyenko, Pschenka and the other chiefs? I'm going to say very briefly that yesterday, President Yanukovic, Zacharychenko, Pschenka, Klimenko, we saw them, they had a delay at Donetsk Airport. The president tried to use the plane, he wasn't allowed to. He left the airport by car. About Zacharyenko and Pshonka. They were trying to fly out of the country. They were detained by the State Border Service. There was a conflict, there was a shooting place. Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u106	A group of armed men broke into the premises where these former officials were detained and released. There's an investigation coming up. There's no place to shoot. There's no other information, no victims. There's information that was there at this point, and Zacharyenko and some other ministers. Igorya. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I urge you to stop, let's stop, let's call everyone, the looting in Medjugorje. It is, as Glory rightly said, a national acquisition. Yeah? So I went to the head of the Supreme Council, including. And please, let's make the right decision today, and today we're going to take this subject under national protection, and we're going to make the right decision. It's urgent. Now there's self-defense, but that's not enough. We need to take more decisive action.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u107	Thank you. People's Deputy Golovko, Freedom faction. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u108	Head, Freedom faction. Good afternoon! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Arsen, there is such information and there are massive complaints to us that on January 19-22, during this period, it was the leadership of Harkay's "Berkutu" who gave the command and generally tortured people. I would very much like you to be on the street of Gruszewski, when all this was happening, you've taken it all under control and the leadership of the Harkows' "Berkut" has been punished. And that's the main thing. What I'm saying is that we have in Ternopolis right when people protested, District Police Chief Sack*** Victor Mikolaiovich gave the command to shoot people. But the police failed to comply with his instructions, and so I would like to see the case violated, and he was responsible for such criminal orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u109	Thank you. I've already told you that we started a service investigation yesterday, touching those areas that you said. An appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u110	One last question. People's MP Averchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u111	Dear Arsen Borisovich, please tell me what is going on with the search for the people who disappeared during these events from Maidan? That's a very painful question. What are you doing in this direction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u112	Thank you. We made a deal yesterday with the public who introduced into the board of the Ministry that we are today synchronizing the lists of people who are missing and we will have an answer, we will have an answer. I think we can say something specific there for two or three days.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u113	Thank you, Arsen Borisovich. Dear National MPs, we have heard reports, information and answers to our colleagues' questions and certainly the main conclusion that both the Supreme Council and our power structures should make -- no more political orders should be there, no more persecution and no more political motives. But guilty of killing Ukrainian citizens, not just murder, mass murder, those who killed, those who gave orders, should sit on the benches of defendants. This is one of the priorities for all the power structures, for the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. The most important issues that these bodies should address must also be the fight against separatism and decisions must be very hard and responsible. And besides, the problem that millions of citizens are addressing is total corruption of power. And this question should be one of the priority issues. We're also asking for a colossal commission, I ask you to form this, the Supreme Council to the Foreign Service, along with the U.S. Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, not to allow anyone who suspects these crimes to leave the country on the responsibility of the heads of our forces. In addition, they must be free immediately, and that is also a priority, those who have been illegally detained and under guard. We've been informed that these are three people. There should be no man behind bars illegally. Now, dear fellows, I will give you a moment's opportunity to speak out, who insists. But I also want to brief you on the fact that yesterday there was a meeting with those who remained in the administration of the ministries and central authorities. Honourable National MPs, the situation in Ukraine, primarily in Ukraine's economy, is catastrophic. The government of Yanukovic, Azarova, and others led the country's economy to disaster. There's no money in the treasury account at all. There are huge problems with the Pension Fund. You see what happens to the national currency, to the banking system. And ineffective regulation of the main regulator of the banking system, the National Bank of Ukraine. Therefore, honourable national MPs, I hereby direct the leaders of factions and MPs to consult on the formation of a new MP majority and the formation of a government of national trust. This is a priority task for our Parliament. And I ask the heads of factions and MPs to inform the Supreme Council of the results of this issue no later than Tuesday. I beg of you, Your Honor, we will now make a decision. Make an announcement in the watchtowers that the national MPs have approached the voting room. I inform the Supreme Council that in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council and according to personal statements, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the People's Deputies' Party: Furcin John Hennadiyovich, Ostapchuk Viktor, Katsuba Vladimir. Honorable National MPs. While the MPs are being drawn to the hall, very briefly, please, the national MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u114	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Head, honoring the minister of the interior! I'm now addressing you from the point of view that there is a joint patrol on the streets of Kiev, throughout Ukraine, the situation is going to calm down. But I have an offer. Indeed, many who have been principled for several months have demonstrated their principle of civic standing. And I think that the position that was formulated and people, by the way, is now being formulated in general with regard to politicians, I think that these people should be involved as part of the building of democracy in Ukraine. I believe that part of these people who have demonstrated courage, of them, as well as those who have been recommended by the social organizations of patriotic organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u115	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u116	They can form the National Guard of Ukraine. And then, if politicians play, there'll be corruption again or any other position, it'll be like in Turkey, when the National Guard removes politicians without bloodshed and rediscovers parliamentary elections, whether it's the Presidential elections. The other one. People who don't have a legal education but want to serve in law enforcement, maintain order, let's make a decision so they can go to education schools, say a police school or something. And we're going to provide a new level of unscrupulous law enforcement because a week ago we didn't think we could decriminalize the legal system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u117	Thank you. National MP Tomenko, prepare for National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Because today the whole country is watching how we work, it is vital that the media act in harmony with the principles of authenticity, objectivity, and freedom of speech. And I want to inform you that in the course of the Euromaidan protests, we have analyzed how the channels work and, in particular, our parliamentary channel of the Council. And the Committee on Freedom of Speech has decided to resign from the office of the head of the Parliamentary Channel, "The Council" of Director Tolstych. And I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to sign immediate orders for the release of the management of the "Council" channel, which provided information on another Ukraine than it was in the Ukrainian state. The collective will form an editorial board, and we can now assign temporary executives. And after we listen to the team's position, we will appoint a new leader so that we won't be embarrassed when the Parliamentary Channel "The Council" shows what's not happening in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u119	Thank you. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u120	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. And I think we should really thank all of our appointed persons: Valentina Navejchenka, Arsena Avakov, Oleg the Deleter for the effective and correct reports, and the first steps in our work. And thank you for letting us know what's going on at the Ministry. But, Alexander Valentinovich, I address you personally as a person who knows the whole system of executive power. Today, indeed, order-making is question number one. But it's probably question number two, which concerns millions of Ukrainian citizens whether they get their pension on time or whether they're getting their salaries paid on time, or whether they're going to make all their social payments on time. So I'm asking you, until the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to take control of the issue of timely financing of all social benefits. Not even for a day should we keep anything and together, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u121	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u122	And along with the Committees of the Supreme Council, social policy, and the issues of pensioners, disabled veterans, holding hands with the pulse of events. Yes, the fine is empty, but that doesn't mean that the authorities have to be financed, and the pensioners or budget workers don't. I thank you for your understanding and I hope that you will personally take control of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u123	Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u124	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Another difficult day begins when we have to make decisions. I would like to draw attention to all those present in the Hall that today millions of Ukrainians are looking at the meetings of the Supreme Council and, above all, I would like to make sure that the voters who represent the east of Ukraine do not feel that some decisions are approved in the face of the interests they see as priorities. So it's very important when we put some questions to the vote today, I don't know how many are left in our Chamber of Deputies that are still members of the Party of the Regions faction, but I want us to vote in the Hall for over 300 votes. To make these decisions, not part of the MPs, but to make them the decisions of the Supreme Council, which would be recognized in the West, in the East. We are bound to maintain such unity just as we did yesterday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u125	People's deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u126	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear colleagues! I was just standing on the stand by Attorney General Nenetzky, and I asked him to arrest and bring Janukovich and his other satraps, including Portnova, who ran the courts that had planted our people and Julia Timoshenko. And you know what the reaction was? Immediately after my performance, Portnow called me and said, "I'll bury you, you freak." So in this room is the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Bureau, I ask you to take steps to apprehend this person who destroyed the judicial system that is complicit in Janukovic's crimes. And if he's in a hurry to call, threatening the people's deputies is obviously not over. That's why I'm waiting for Yanukovich to call.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u127	Please, National Deputy Yatzenko. Then we'll take the risk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! On Friday, I made an offer to vote on the monthly salary fund of the national deputies, with all the allowances, to list the families of those who had died. But then I didn't put it, and now I have 4173 -- her number, and now I have Mr. Kosulinsky's. And I'm still asking, let's put it to a vote -- this is a small thing that we can do for those people and their families at least. I'm, uh, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u129	Turn on the microphone to the national deputy Yavorowski. Friends and we'll move on to making decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! I would like to stress that we have no right to repeat the mistakes of 2004-2005. You remember, after the North Londoners, these people had to be attracted to the people who organized this -- to be held accountable. By the way, he'd be alive today and Kushnarov if we didn't do it this time with Kernes and the others, and it'd be hanging over us all the time, this terrible thing about the division of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking, I'm talking to both the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs: don't let this happen. I'm convinced that the biggest crime that's ever been committed after manslaughter is an attempt at the territorial integrity of the state. They waved, and Kernes, and Dobkin, and their accelerants. They are all in sight, and it is vital that we do so in order not to do so again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, my friends, there will be another opportunity to speak today. Come on, people are still expecting decisions from us, not just performances. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, one of the issues raised during the presentations by the appointed representatives and the acting minister of the interior, were the question of the Interior. You know, this is a residence that was formerly owned by the state, and journalists who went to this residence published materials about the luxury, about the jewels that are there. The residence is a very large area and there is virtually no way to protect it. Because of bottlenecks, people on the side of the bay have been able to make their way to the residence, and sadly, the facts of the robbery have begun. Therefore, honourable colleagues, introduced a draft decree on the return of the government residence of "Mježirja" to state property. Can we put him in the agenda? We can. Dear colleagues, I ask the deputies to take their seats. We vote in accordance with the Constitution. I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall again. Dear colleagues, first of all, let's put this issue in the order of the day of our meeting. Supreme Council regulation number 4189. I ask you to include the Council system and vote on the inclusion of this decree in the agenda of the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[12:23:19]] For 323 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, can we work on such an effective procedure as we did with you yesterday and yesterday? We can do it without talking. Thank you. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I'll read you the text, it's small, this decree. Decision of the Supreme Council on the return of the Government residence of the State: "In order to restore the property rights of the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to return the property of the Leisure Vodica resort to the Inter-Igoria State residence. This decision has been effective since its adoption. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the authorized authorities of the State within the ten-day period from the date of taking effect of this decision to carry out appropriate measures and to ensure the transfer of property to the Leisure Water resort of the Inter-Igoria government residence of the State. Can we put it to a vote? Please include a microphone to the People's Deputy Miroshnichenko, one of the authors of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u132	Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I think there is no doubt in any person today that the residence of the Interigria is an example of corruption, of a frenzyed lack of taste and of a sick, perverted vision of the presidency and of mourning. But this is Ukrainian money, this is the money that was robbed in our country and we have to pay it back. And I want to add an amendment, with your permission, I hope you support it. The amendment relates to Drylands, because Interigree and Drylands are essential things and should belong to the Ukrainian people. As the author would like to express the hope that, among other things, the ideas that will be considered will be considered for the creation of a future hospital for children, which was made up of millions of Ukrainians in 2004, but which was not built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Turn on the microphone to the people's deputy Grizzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I would like to record this for the protocol: not just to return to those areas where there was a state residence, because since then there have been much more -- over 100 hectares of land -- and new buildings have been built. Protocolly, two things: that this is all that is illegally stolen and built by Yanukovich is taken into state property -- once; and secondly, to recommend to the Public Prosecutor's Office to address those states in which property is now registered to the Family of the Clovis of this entire complex, so that they can carry out a check and attract the "dirty" funds to be held accountable in accordance with the legislation of these countries. It's specifically about Britain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote on the amendments made by the National MP Miroshnichenko? Can't you? Please, National Deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u136	It's like everyone here is coming together from a Communist faction. Well, Drylands is in state property, there's rent. If there's a lease, we just have to stop this lease. It's state property now. Regarding new structures, well, dear friends, there are rules of the Constitution: this can be done by a court decision. Just as it was put to the vote, so should we take it in general, without any right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u137	Please, Your Honor, we can put to the vote then without a right. In the case of Drought, make another suggestion and formulate it in accordance with the applicable Ukrainian legislation. Please, National Deputy Mohnik. I think we should vote on the basis and in general, my friends. Dear colleagues, let's vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP. No, he's already giving up the word. Vote. Vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I request the adoption of Decree No.4189 on the return of the Government residence of the "Mejriya" to state property on the basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:28:22]] For 324 [[Applause]] "For" is 324 votes. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! You and I have made a very responsible decision by restoring the constitutional system in Ukraine. But with regard to the restoration of the Constitution, we need to adopt several more legislative acts to ensure that this happens not only in the constitutional context at all, but also in the section of individual laws. You remember how many laws were changed when the Constitution was illegally changed. That is why one of the first such laws is now proposed — the law registered under number 4092 — on recognition of such acts as have lost its validity since October 7, 2010 (No. 2592) to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. So the law that was passed and there was a huge package of laws that were changing, we're just cancelling. We can set it up. insert this question into the agenda? We can. Thank you. Please vote on the inclusion of draft law number 4092 in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:30:03]] For 327 Decision taken. Friends! Since I am one of the authors of this law, it is very short, I will allow myself to read it. Ukraine's law of introduction. such that Ukraine's laws of October 7, 2010 (No.2592-6) on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on bringing them into line with the Constitution of Ukraine have become invalid. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to recognize that the Ukrainian Act of 07 October 2010 No. 2592-6 "To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Constitution of Ukraine" ("The Voice of Ukraine" of 13.10.2010, No. 191). To establish that Ukraine's laws, which were amended by the Ukrainian Act of October 07, 2010, No. 2592, which became effective under paragraph 1 of this Act, are in force as of October 07, 2010. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for three months from the date of publication of this law to introduce its legal acts (colleagues, attention!) In accordance with this law. Ensure that ministries and other central executive bodies review and bring their legislation into line with this law. Dear colleagues, can we put the bill to the vote? Thank you. Please accept as a basis and as a whole draft of Law No. 4092, which I have announced. Please vote. [[12:32:11]] For 332 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must carry out your commission to the executive branch of the state. I have to leave you in half an hour. Ruslan Kosulinski will continue to lead the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u138	Please, Pinzenik with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just voted on laws that repeat the situation of so-called dictatorial laws on January 16th. But this is where they introduced an amendment that allows for the reinstatement of laws that were in the Old Constitution. That's why it's settled here. But in this regard, I want to return to the question that we should finally repeal the laws adopted on January 16 of this year. Raise the base of legislation, they continue to operate in an editorial form after 16 numbers. In this connection, the proposed Law 4119 has been in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for two weeks now, which mirrors the drafting of laws that were in force until January 16. I ask the National Deputies to vote and restore, more faithfully, the act of repealing laws that would provoke a serious exacerbation of the conflict in the Supreme Council, c.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u140	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u141	Project 4119 please put to the vote and restore the standards that were in force until 16 January.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Your attention is on draft regulation number. Ladies and gentlemen, please wait carefully. Your attention is on draft Decree 4204. We today have, unfortunately, a vacuum in the state, a vacuum in the absence of the first officials who can't sign any laws. We don't have any law that we're now adopting, it doesn't have practical legal force. We don't have a president to sign. We don't have any laws working right now, so we don't have to approve with you right now. That's the problem. Therefore, it is now proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be chaired by the President of Ukraine. Accordingly, according to article 112 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: that the Supreme Council of Ukraine assumes its duties as President of Ukraine for a period prior to the performance of its duties as President of Ukraine. This is Project Decree No. 4204. Your point today is to include this draft decree in today's plenary session. Who's in favour of including draft Decree No. 4204, please vote in the agenda. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:35:58]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm betting on the basis of the draft Decree 4204 as a whole. Let's vote and vote, shall we? As they prepared. I'm betting on a draft Decree 4204 as a whole. Please vote. [[12:36:42]] For 285 Decision taken. Thank you. For reasons, please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u143	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. I address the electorate in front of everything and explain our position. Now the formation of a new power. The head of the Supreme Council invited factions and groups to form a new coalition by Tuesday. Clearly, the faction of Communists will not participate in the formation of the coalition. So we're not going to form power. Therefore, the Communist faction will not vote on any of the personnel. They vote who takes responsibility. We're in opposition. The other one. It's about the front row. We really need to form power. But we have a unique opportunity to adopt those bills that the vast majority of the hall have been talking about. Let's cancel the pension reform today, let's cancel the medical reform today. Will the new authorities also continue to do so? And the third. Again and again, I ask you to stop the war with Lenin’s monuments, with the memorials of soldiers who have died, to stop the looting.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of work to do. Let's do this. For reasons of vote, Mr. Rosenko, we still have a lot to say, we're working on it today. Your opinion is on the draft Decree No. 4175, on the release of the D.V. Tobacco. from the duties of Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I would like to ask you a word from the author of this bill. Will we not discuss it? [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? No discussion. Please turn it on. Who's in charge of putting in order the daily bill (registration number 4175) on the release of D.V. From the duty of Minister of Education, Science, and Culture, please vote. I'd like you to put it in the day-to-day order. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:39:31]] For 239. Decision taken. Honorable Society — Is There a Need to Discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u145	I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 4175) on the release of the D.V. Tobacco. From the responsibility of the Minister of Education, Science and Culture in general. As a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:40:08]] For 236 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Please turn on Nestor Sulfric's microphone, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. We agreed yesterday, during a difficult discussion, that after the deadline for the agreement, which will be signed yesterday, and its term of 48 hours, and it was signed at 16 hours, the decision will enter into force if the law is not signed and it is not published at least on the official website of the President of Ukraine. This comes into force yesterday’s decision, which theoretically gives rise to the right to discharge the responsibilities of ministers. Well, these few hours were not enough to make it more or less legal? What's your hurry? You question everything you do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Order No. 4205 on the release of Kojara L.O. from serving as Ukraine’s foreign minister. Is there a denial, a venerable society? Please vote. Who's for including in the agenda of today's plenary session draft Decree No. 4205. Please vote. Put it in order of the day. [[12:42:10]] For 231 Decision taken. Is there a need to discuss this? None. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 4205) on the release of Kožara L.O. from carrying out the duties of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, on the basis and in general. Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:42:50]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear Society, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the cessation of laws approved on 16 January 2014 (registration No. 4119). Victor Pinzenik, please report on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I literally want to pay attention for a few seconds. Hall demonstrated political unity when we voted on a decision that, unfortunately, was not properly drafted and which caused the laws to be available to this day. What do these changes predict? The mirror restoration of those standards, exclusively in effect on 16 January 2014. The request of the great national deputies unanimously, as we voted yesterday, to repeal these shameful laws. Please be supportive. These are 23 laws that have been passed on the list of things, this is a mirror, automatic reflection of the standards that were in effect by 16 numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u149	Please, Sergey Mishchenko, please. Turn on Sergei Mishchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I propose a very simple solution to this problem, and I propose to my colleague when you remember to raise this issue when neither the Supreme Council website nor the Ministry of Justice have changed accordingly with regard to the abolition of dictatorial laws. But the Ministry of Justice made appropriate changes to the reference codes and reference laws to the Single Register of Regulatory Acts on that day, and you can therefore, as a substitute or Head of the Supreme Council, order that the Supreme Council's website, according to the reference codes found in the Single Register of Regulatory Acts, should be amended accordingly. And that will solve this problem without any vote. So I'm proposing this option because of the proper direction of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u151	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Look closely at all the laws you make. They're always shaped like this: that's the standard to take away, that's how they've removed. This law is designed according to this practice. So let's, honourable colleagues, unanimously bring these laws into line and vote them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u153	Dear National Deputies! It is proposed to vote on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the termination of the laws approved on 16 January 2014 – on the basis of and as a whole. And we haven't included it yet, I'm sorry. I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill (registration number 4119) on amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on the cessation of laws approved on 16 January 2014. Please vote. [[12:46:29]] For 316 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, do we need to discuss this? None. Thank you. I am voting on the draft Act (Registration No. 4119) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the cessation of laws approved on 16 January 2014 – on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[12:47:07]] For 326 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Judges" at number 4048-6 of 17 November 2011 (registration number 4195). The reporter is Oleg Igorovich. Please turn on the microphone. Now, he'll report it, and then we'll put it in the agenda to make it clear what the decision is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, during the so-called "constitutional reform", which we had already abolished when the Constitution was amended by a decision of the Constitutional Court, there was also a so-called "court reform". The legislation of Ukraine, which regulates the status of judges and the judiciary, has been amended, rules that do not conform to the Constitution of Ukraine. In this way, unconstitutional legislative acts were adopted that violated the restraint and counter-aggression mechanism and the constitutional principle of the distribution of power to the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. As a result, the Presidential authorities of Viktor Yanukovitch were fully seized by the judicial authority, and they all witnessed the judicial decisions that our courts had made and were not responsible. They only reported to Banks. And one of the reasons that led to the national opposition was because of the national rebellion caused by Midan, which was actually the actions and decisions of the judicial authorities. The bill proposes to bring the legislation on the judiciary and the status of judges and the relevant provisions of the Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into conformity with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u155	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to include in the agenda of today's plenary a draft Order (registration number 4195) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Judges (No. 4048-6) (since 17 November 2011). I would like to ask the honourable members of the people to decide by vote. Please vote. [[12:50:16]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. May I put it to a vote? Ladies and gentlemen, we're putting to the vote a draft decree (registration number 4195) amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Judges (number 4048-6) (since 17 November 2011) on the basis and overall. Please vote. [[12:50:53]] For 274 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (registration number 4186) amending certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters of jurisdiction and the status of judges. I would like to introduce you to the words of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Kneczyk Oleg Igorovich. Remove Oleg Igorovich, please turn on the microphone or in the rostrum. Please inform the Honorary Society about the Bill (4186) concerning amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on individual matters by the judiciary. Please turn the mic on to the Stripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u156	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Actually, this bill applies, I just reported, it's the same subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u157	Cancelling the appointment, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made for the inclusion of a draft Act (registration number 4186) amending certain Ukrainian laws on individual matters of jurisdiction and the status of judges. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] They were just saying: release, appointment. [[12:52:40]] For 254 Decision taken. Oleg Igorovich, please come to the rostrum. Explain. There's a lot of questions right now so we don't have to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, actually, what I've reported before is this bill because I thought this bill was being reported. And the last one was the verdict. In fact, it refers to those changes to the law that were introduced that did not correspond to the Constitution, that is, to the norms of the Constitution. In 2010, amendments were made to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, which are anti-constitutional, which resulted in the entire judiciary being completely subdued by the Presidential Authority. And in order to balance the balance, the restraint mechanism and the contradictions between the various branches of government, it is proposed that the norms that would meet the Constitution and ensure the principle of the distribution of power to the legislative, executive and judicial branches. These were standards that had been applied before, and then they were changed in an unconstitutional way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u159	Please turn on Arsenija Yatsenyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u160	Dear colleague, please explain to Parliament what this law means. This law means that since the adoption of this bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been re-established with respect to the appointment of judges, and then the Supreme Council of Ukraine becomes an active participant in the process of independent justice in Ukraine. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u161	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u162	Now. Please turn on Adam Martinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. If it were like the reporter said for the first time, and if it were like Yatsenuk said now, it would be 100 percent the right law. But think about what we're voting about! We are voting not to repeal the law that we have passed and passed on to the judges, not to the Supreme Council, but to virtually outside the Supreme Council, but we are now voting on our rulings that we have appointed judges since 2010. And we're firing everyone we've assigned. Is that right? Think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u164	It's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u165	If you cancel, let's cancel. Don't make a decision. So don't be silly, please. That's the first one. And the second. What do we do when we're blind? It's hard to print. Is it hard to print so we can see what we're voting for? You yourself, your faction leader has confirmed that he doesn't know what he's voting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u166	Please, Sergey Teryohin. Sergey Sobolev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u167	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, Adam Ivanovich! Here's the situation. This is no longer a draft decision. We've put in order a daily draft law that will now allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine's professional committee to consider, as it was under the 2004 Constitution, every candidate for a judge to be provided with all the information on the cancellations of cases concerning violations of judicial ethics. And now the Parliament's mandate for each judge is returned, as it was under the 2004 Constitution. It's not a draft decree, it's a draft law. We put it in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u168	Paul Petrenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that in 2010, amendments were made to the Sudokustre Act, which was further criticised by the Venice Commission, because in fact the Supreme Council of Justice had been given excessive powers regarding the release and appointment of judges. In view of the fact that these changes were in fact contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine in part that the Supreme Council and its respective committees had been removed from the process of preparing those draft decisions that had been adopted by the Supreme Council, a bill had now been tabled to renew the provisions of the Judicial Act and the status of judges in the 2010 edition at the time of the adoption of those laws. I ask you to support this bill, because it is absolutely now in line with the 2004 Constitution, which we have restored in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u170	Now. Oleg Knaczykki, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u171	I'd like to inform my colleagues that there were many questions and arguments here at the time when judges were elected that when this procedure took place, there were many questions, which led to the judges not being elected on more than one occasion, and the committee had no opportunity to verify the arguments that gave rise to the MPs, and those arguments came from the citizens. So let's assume that in the case that there are any questions or claims to a judge or a complaint against him, this question of his election is going back to the committee. The committee examines these facts. And after these facts have not been confirmed, then the question of a judge being elected returns to the session room. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Venice Commission's observation that there will be no influence of the deputies in the Chamber on this issue is taken into account, that if the committee has already examined the relevant complaints and they have not been confirmed, then the second time in the sessional room, it does not discuss this issue and it is immediately put to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u173	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I've finally received the bill that we're talking about. And that's why it confirms what the reporter says. Indeed, this is about a draft Ukrainian law, not a ruling, as we have been saying here, because we thought that a decree, a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian laws on individual matters by courtship and the status of judges. This is Bill 4186. And this bill I urge you to support, because that's not what I said before.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u174	Now. Please, Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, actually, Adam Ivanovich, took a stand, we voted first, and the second law, you just got confused and talked about something else. One second. We don't need to be politicized here because if we went back to the 2004 edition, then all the constitutional distributions have to match that. So it's actually an automatic bill to some extent. But I have a very important question, Mr. Vice Speaker, to you of an organizational nature. We don't have a distribution center anymore? If we're going forward and we're giving up paper media, it's a really big cost, I'm just suggesting, it's done in a few seconds, passing these bills that are proposed to vote on the electron media. Every deputy now has the right boyfriends and stuff. Well, let's do honest, modern, new work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u176	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Chernezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, well, and the so-called reform of the courts in 2010 actually gave rise to what we now have, the decisions that were printed under the copier during the detention of activists, those decisions and appeals, and the courts of the first instance, when the judges, even without listening to the defence motive, in no way took into account the current legislation, nor did the practice exist. One second. You can see even what, the information on the Internet about bribes and the specific names of judges that were given by the President's Administration and other state institutions to address specific issues. All these things need immediate investigation. And the return to those rules of appointment and the introduction to the oath of judges will actually be a good sign that we want to change in our case-law a lot of fundamental things. Therefore, a request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u178	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite all national deputies to the hall, given that we are about to vote on an important law. I am voting on the draft Act (registration number 4186) to amend certain laws of Ukraine on individual matters by the judiciary and the status of judges on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[13:03:19]] For 314 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law (Registration No. 1190) on recognition of such that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on Principles of State Language Policy. I would like to welcome you to Ukraine’s national deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. And you announce first, and then we'll put it into the agenda. Let's get to know each other first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u179	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act of Recognition, which has become invalid, the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy. And one point that defines that the Ukrainian Law on Principles of State Language Policy (No. 5029-6) (from 3 July 2012). The law takes effect from the day it was published. This is done only on the grounds that this law was passed with gross violation of the procedures established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. For these reasons, this law must be recognized as having become invalid. Ladies and gentlemen, please support. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u180	Thank you. It is proposed to include in the agenda a bill (registration No. 1190) on recognition of such that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy. Please vote. [[13:05:44]] For 232 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm voting on the bill (registration No. 1190) on recognition of such that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of State Language Policy. Please vote. On the basis and in general, please vote. [[13:06:20]] For 232 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Please turn on the microphone. On Nestor Shufrich's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! When this law was adopted, I was not Ukraine’s national deputy. But this law was passed by tens of Ukrainian national minorities. Not just the Russians you're worried about. [[A phrase in a foreign language]] And the Russians also welcomed this law! Today you have demonstrated how you want to go about removing the opposition and achieving the compromise of Ukraine. Lawlessness and, unfortunately, the continuation of the policy of opposition are your first steps in power. I'm really sorry that we're starting to go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u183	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine is being restored fully and the previous Law on Languages is being renewed. Remember, in article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the only language other than Ukrainian, which is mentioned and which is the language of international communication, is Russian. That's why I'm talking to everyone Russian. The rights of the Russian-speaking population are protected by law and the Constitution. We need to draft a new bill, we need to follow the path of national unity, we need to follow the path of a single Ukrainian state, where all nations are protected, all languages and no one will ever share anyone, unlike our political opponents!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u184	Please turn on the microphone, Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u185	Fellow dignitaries, we understand that this law has been repealed today. In fact, you've returned the situation with the 10 articles of the Constitution, you've returned the Language Act that was in effect at the time. But today we need to think about the future, the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities. We need to resolve the issue of whether national minorities have the opportunity to learn their native language at home while providing a compulsory study of the State. So I ask that in the future we ensure the rights of national minorities so that we feel like individual elements of the self-sufficiency of the Ukrainian people. Thank you. I voted against it, but I explained my situation and my position. I hope that in the future we will do everything we can to make every citizen feel at home. And in the event of danger, all of us, as one, have become, not on different grounds, but on one to protect our common Fatherland. Thank you all!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u186	Thank you. Irina Farion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u187	Dear citizens of Ukraine! We want to re-focus your attention on the following: the vote took place only now in the context that the law so-called language law was passed with gross violations of the law. And this has to be fixed so that there will never be any sales in the session room again, there will be no violation of the law. Similarly, we have to record the following: the only national language is Ukrainian, but we all have to make every effort together to ensure that all the languages of the national minorities living in Ukraine are freely developed here, both Russian and Hungarian, and all the other languages of those Ukrainian citizens who are Ukrainians who do not belong to their nationalities. And it's obvious that the new minister of education has to do the same thing to make sure that children who belong to the Nazis can learn the language of their mother, their father, in schools, while also learning Ukrainian. And obviously, together this is very important for us to unite the country here in consensus, we have to write a new Language Law that will unite the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u188	Thank you. Oleg Pullibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u189	Dear Society, I would like to explain to all the audiences and audiences and to our hall. In this case, it was only one thing that this bill, the law, was passed with a grave violation of the Constitution and the Rules. One. The other one. It was the adoption of that law that led to massive protests in Ukraine. And I've just had a conversation with the less nationals who are represented here in our parliament, and there are quite a lot of them, and we agreed that since this law is now repealed, the Language Act in the 1989 edition is still in effect Soviet law now, and together, I emphasize, together with representatives of all the national minorities who are represented in Parliament, who represent all the national minorities in Ukraine. Together, we will soon have to adopt, work and adopt a new Language Law in Ukraine that will satisfy everyone. The national language is Ukrainian and it won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u190	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u191	And I want to assure each of you that no national minority will be depressed in all matters, including language. So, please, let's not pressurize, it's just about the legality and the observance of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u192	Please turn on Irina Farion's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! Language is the thinnest matter and the strongest foundation of society. In view of the fact that it combines these seemingly opposite things in itself, it causes so much passion. Ukrainian linguist Alexander Potebna said, "What any national competition that passes the Ukrainian language built on sand." It is quite logical that the first Ukrainian president, Mikhailo Gruszewski, repeated this phrase. And now I'm saying, not as politicians, but as a philosopher, Ukrainian land, I emphasize, our ethnic territories from Xian to Don breathe uniquely Ukrainian speeches called South-East, South-West and North. Any other language that comes into our territory is the last language, and some are the occupation language. This should also be known and understood. So we have the only national language that is the main language.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u194	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone in the stands of Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, two small remarks. First of all, you know, as our meeting is now going on, I can say that Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak was a super Democrat. There's nothing on our hands, nothing, and we start what's called being accused of voting with our hands. What's going on now? Give me one piece of paper. I think today you said, yesterday you said the same thing, and today you're doing the same thing today, pressing and pressing with your hands. Now about the language. I support the fact that Oleg Tsagnibok has spoken with the representatives of the Nazis. But I don't want you to cancel first, and then we'll make a deal. Make an agreement, let's find an understanding, and then we'll make the right decision. And that's the only way. Otherwise, it dissociates all of us today, and that is wrong at such a time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u196	Please, Deputy Yavorowski, please. Respectable association, and we're done. We voted, we move on to the next item in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I appeal to those who mourn to mourn the death of this law. I have to tell you that I was then head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, and I know very well how this law was enacted. So, I'll tell you, this law never lived, it's still born. It took 15 billion dollars to make it work. Where in this land where rats were running and running in execution, where do they get the money? It contradicts the Constitution in its entirety, it was established by both the Venice Commission and the OSCE, and everyone. Then, 10 percent, if there's 10 percent, there's a language. Who's going to set this 10 percent? Because of this, it seems to me that we did the right thing, but that doesn't mean we're just going to go back to the level of this still Soviet language law, although it turns out to be more normal than today's. That's why we need to sit down after this law is abolished and make the Language Act in Ukraine, the Democratic Law, the law that will take account of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u198	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u199	All the interests. That's why I don't even say "the kingdom of heaven" to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u200	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next item on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 4216) on the exemption from the duties of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Bogotyrovová R.V. I ask the author of this Order by Paul Petrenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, we are now, indeed, at a difficult time when the country needs not only a renewal of the constitutional system, but also an assessment of the actions of those officials, who, in fact, with their own hands and their own decisions, pushed and incited the country before the opposition we saw. I want to remind you that, in fact, the main criminals that we took away, the same Zacharyenko was giving instructions on the use of weapons against humans, but they were also their guardians. Minister Bogityrov, who has actually been misleading society over the entire period of time with regard to the injured and injured in hospitals. This minister, who gave instructions to leave the hospitals of beaten citizens in a timely manner so that they would not be prosecuted for their bodily harm. This minister is the corruption minister for whom the Supreme Council has examined and investigated a number of corruption cases and vaccines that have killed people and the quick help that has actually made billions of dollars. This minister, who in a difficult time, instead of taking sides and providing adequate medical care to the wounded, took sides in the regime and hid the crimes committed by law enforcement officers. So I urge you, dear friends, to give a political assessment of the actions of this official, and I propose that you now accept this determination, which I will read: "For the systematic and gross violation of the requirements of the Constitution, the requirements of the relevant international treaties and international obligations to ensure the proper enjoyment of the inalienable right to life and health, the improper implementation of the State-specific programmes and comprehensive health measures of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to release the richer Raisa Vasilevna from the duties of the Minister of Health resulting from the removal of her office. This decision takes effect from the moment they are adopted." We must make this decision so that society understands that no one will avoid responsibility, including political and other forms of responsibility. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u202	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to include in the order of the day a draft decree (registration number 4216) on the discharge of the duties of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Bogatirirova R.V., in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:19:57]] For 282 Decision taken. May we vote, honourable national deputies? Please turn on Martinyuk Adam's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u203	Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would ask very much for the results of the inclusion in the agenda -- clearly what will be the result of the decision as a whole -- but I would very much like to remember that after this decision you and I have decided to cancel the Law on Medical Reform in general. Because people don't just yearn for this reform -- people are, unfortunately, dying from this medical reform. Let's be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u204	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u205	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable national MPs, we must vote for the decision to release the corrupter Richtirov from office. But equally important is the decision, and I ask Parliament to put the chairman to the vote in the second reading of our bill 2201: a moratorium on the closure of hospitals. This first - reading bill was adopted last May. The majority of those days did not vote in favour of his acceptance as a whole. Thousands of people who have died are on the conscience of the minister of health. These are people who have not received adequate medical care in time. They're people who can't buy drugs, use equipment, etc. So I'm asking immediately after the decision to resign Richter's adoption of the entire bill of 2201: a moratorium on hospital closure, and to stop this vacchanal, this genocide. And the many thousands of medical people thank us, and people thank us for finally making the decision not to close the hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u206	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. I am voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 4216) on the exemption from the duties of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Richtirirova R.V. - based on the whole thing. Please vote. [[13:22:31]] For 287 Decision taken. Please turn on the microphone, on Victor Pinzenick's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u207	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I am very pleased to recall the last two days of Parliament's work, which demonstrated a unique thing, a unique connection in this critical situation. And it is very important to us that at this time the entire Ukraine voted, over 300 national deputies voted, and all factions voted. I strongly urge all in attendance. The situation that we're in right now is that there can be no winners and there can be no winners and there can be no winners. The whole of Ukraine has a victory. All our citizens: East and West citizens, citizens of the Centre, citizens of the North and the South, citizens of different religions who speak different languages, are all our citizens. I'm sure we should make some urgent decisions right now. I am convinced that most of these decisions could still be made by more than 300 votes. I'm just asking one thing: stop a little bit of revolutionary activity. Give at least a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u208	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u209	I'm talking to the chairman. At least hand over a copy of the documents so that each parliamentary group can read the document. And I'm sure we'll be kind enough to demonstrate the unity that Ukraine needs today. We're able to do that, we've shown it in the last days.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u210	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u211	Dear National Deputies! The word is given to the Osukhovsky People’s Deputy concerning Decree 4194. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u212	Oleg Osuhovski, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! We know that the courts today have turned the judges into private businesses in Ukraine. We know what shameful decisions they have made and continue to make. And about, in particular, the Jews who were first tried, then beaten, killed, and abused. But today we are talking about Mr. Father, who presided over the Ukrainian Master’s Court. Because we are now voting with you so that there will be no more criminals in positions who have destroyed the Ukrainian business, who have taken away the business, who have allowed no investor in Ukraine to enter and work. Your Honor, I ask you to support this decision regarding Mr. Father's dismissal, because such criminals, judges and raiders have no right to hold office in Ukraine today. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may the decree be in the order of the day? Decree (4194) on recognition of the validity of the Supreme Council decree on the election of a judge. Do you understand the question? I see. Please vote for inclusion in the order of day order 4194. Turn on the "Race" system. [[13:26:50]] For 246 Decision taken. Please refer to making decisions as a basis and as a whole. Vote. Is there a point to this project? There's a note. Colleagues, come on, a few minutes. National MP Griesenko, please. After him Rudzkowski and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, two questions. Alexander Valentinovich, please listen to me, Mr. Head. If we need to take time, I'm going to go to Head, if we need to print documents, projects, and we need to take an hour off, let's take an hour and work harder. But let us not vote on any more documents without looking. That's the first one. The other one. By this particular example. We now have ministers and forces, and if a man has broken the law, he should be held in court. But if we're going to vote out options like cancel Lenin's birth certificate, then there's going to be trouble. The European Court of Human Rights then protects the corrupter. This path is unacceptable, please think. Otherwise, we will repeat what the previous authorities have done, and we will have to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I believe that the report has been reasoned, and I agree with the organization of Parliament's work. But we work with you in extreme conditions. And now, now, right after the vote, we're going to discuss the form of Parliament's work, to really bring it back to normal, calm motion, although the situation in Ukraine is not quite calm. And that is certainly what affects this extreme and effective work of our Parliament. Deputy Labunska, please turn on the microphone and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u216	Alexander Valentinovich, I myself was one of the authors of the previous bill in order to free the judges from slavery. And we, thank God, did. But it seems to me that this ruling, when we begin to make some revolutionary purpose, we vote, and you put the order of the day to vote, not the judge's office, but the judge's. So what are we doing, please tell me, and if there are other judges in this ruling, what are we going to do now, 5, 10, 20 judges? And then what are we going to do? What we talked about is that this is the conclusion of a profile committee. Let's not do it under one button today, or did anyone want to know what the other applicants are? So how do you differ from others who were? Can't you hear anybody what you're doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u217	Regrettably, the Ukrainian judicial system has been deformed and 90 percent of the judges who have worked for the past four years have commented as judges in general. These are the people in the black mantles who made the orders. Fellows, I'm sorry, let's define. We had two previous decisions that were similar. And from that point of view, I suggest we make a decision, who is against it, who is simply not voting for it. We can now decide how to vote. I ask you to include the "Council" system and vote on this ruling, this bill as a whole (4194). Please vote. [[13:30:55]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, according to the factions, please speak. Dear colleagues, let me put it this way: I suggest we not go through this now. We should, however, show the example of honest work. I, colleagues, then ask the profile committee and the authors to work on it. Colleagues, we still have one more question. And I'll be able to make a statement later. Colleagues, let's pass the law now and I'll give you my word when the proposal is put to the vote, I'll put them up. Please, dear colleagues, we have raised questions about the Ministry of Health, yes or no? We have a lot of political decisions to make. But people expect us to make decisions and social decisions. We had adopted the Law (Registration No. 2201) on the introduction of a moratorium on the liquidation and reorganization of health facilities that are being destroyed in Ukraine today. And we need to make this decision in general. In the first reading, this law was passed. Under the stenogram. Once again, this law was passed in the first reading. Is it appropriate to put a committee representative on the rostrum? Is there a willingness to vote in general? Yes. For stenographers, in general. Please turn on the microphone of the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u218	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! I ask you to vote in favour of this law in the second reading and in general in the first reading, without taking into account the amendments to the committee. Thank you. Because those amendments actually levelled the standards of the law that was adopted in the first reading. So it's in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u219	Friends! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. The question is important because we have areas where there is no hospital left at all, where people can be treated. So you heard the proposal: to vote on Bill No. 2201 on the introduction of a moratorium on the elimination and reorganization of health facilities as a whole, in a second reading as a whole. Can I put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u220	With my suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u221	With the suggestions made by the national deputy Lazko. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[13:33:54]] For 311 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have discussed this with you. The law is adopted and so on. Dear colleagues, we need to consult. You and I have accepted the questions that we planned to consider today. At the same time, colleagues, the most important question, the answer that the Ukrainian people are waiting for, is the formation of the majority and the government of popular trust. I'd like to ask you, colleagues, literally here I see your hands raised. Let's take a minute after the speech and we'll make decisions about our future work. Pick it up, say it, yeah. Please, Deputy Rudzkowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up for the performance. Rudzkowski will perform and we'll go over the recording for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u222	Dear National Deputies! I am grateful that we voted in favour, more, of banning the closure of hospitals. We have another social issue that awaits the whole of Ukraine -- the abolition of pension reform. And I propose that this law be passed after lunch, until a new coalition is formed, because the coalition will not allow this law to be passed again. And the second. I insist, Alexander Valentinovich. Don't distract the Chief of the Supreme Council, please. Alexander Valentine's Day, please, Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you very much to put to the vote Order 4198-2 on the election of the city head of Kiev and city council deputies on May 25th this year. We have been waiting for that decision for a year. Let's make a decision and let everyone, including the Central Election Commission, prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I see a lot of hands. Let's sign up for the performances. Please turn on the "Race" system. Dear colleagues, Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok is already here in the rostrum, give him a minute to make the speech, and I'll give him another one as you sign up for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u224	Thank you. Leaning, "Freedom" faction. There is another very important bill that awaits Ukrainian society that is worth voting for. About the deployment of a special unit of the Berkut Public Security Police and the creation of another structure based on it that will serve the nard, not the authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, the word is given to National Deputy Shulsey, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u226	Please pass the word to Auntie Tears.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u227	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national deputies. Today I voted in favour of Supreme Council regulation 4203 on the introduction of a regime to limit budgetary expenditure and other public expenditure. Given that we have a difficult situation in budgetary policy and the execution almost half-empty, this Order needs to be considered and adopted today. Alexander Valentine's Day, very much asked, include it today, (4203) budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u228	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u229	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. I realize that this is about restoring the leadership of the state, but I wanted to point out that we can't fix the old system of government right now, we need to create a completely new system based on the power of the community. to real local self-government. Where the activities of both the government and the President and the Prime Minister are purely symbolic in determining the priorities of the state's development. Tax change, change in the judicial system is all urgent problems, but you can't adjust the old system. The new should be a European system, where basically citizens' rights and their responsibilities are central to what should be taken into account in these changes. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u230	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Tomenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u231	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! My suggestion is that we should take a break now, have a faction session, if necessary, on the committees, but we have decided on the continuity of our Supreme Council, we have no luxury and no time, let's say we split up by Tuesday. We can get together for 16 hours today, but clearly, planned, not with emotional suggestions, because I am happy here with former members of the Party of Regions who have imposed antinational decisions on us, and now the first ones are in line to cancel them. Guys, just sit down, calm down. So, factions, committees at 16, we're going to do everything we can to get a coalition formed as quickly as possible and appointed Prime Minister. That's enough of the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u232	Please, Calchenko, National Deputy Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u233	Calchenko, Kirovgradish, Fatherland Party. As soon as the session of the Regional Council in Kirovograd ended, at which Governor Nikolainko resigned, the faction of the Party of the Regions dissolved itself, resigned and resigned the head of the Kovalchuk District Council from the Party of the Regions. The district council was elected Alexander Crnovenek of the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u234	Please, National Deputy Benjuk, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u235	I ask you to give the floor to Mr. Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u236	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u237	Mr. Head, please, I ask you to return to the Law on the removal of the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Father from office, since many deputies have not understood what the vote was for. Please return to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u238	Please, National Deputy Ariev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u239	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want us to vote for the election in Kiev. And in other cities today without local self - government, there is no mayor. The other one. It is imperative that the Berkut Criminal Unit be dismantled immediately. It was a requirement of people who had suffered, who had been killed by their hands. I address the same, Alexander Valentinovich, please give the mandate of the Budget Committee to meet urgently and develop changes to Ukraine's budget for 2014. To redistribute the funds and to remove the corrupt articles that took place during the January 16 vote. And yet another important point is that we need to ratify the Rome Statute so that criminals who killed people can be held accountable at The Hague International Tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u240	Please, National Deputy Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u241	Stephen Kurpil, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! For two decades, an information war has been waged, and in fact, an information aggression against Ukraine by the Russian Federation. This has been particularly true in the last three months during the national opposition to the example of yesterday's TV channel "Russia-24" has continuously provoked that it is as if one of the leaders of the opposition Oleg Tsagnibok proposes to deprive Ukrainian citizenship of all Russian-speaking people and to prohibit Russian-speaking in Ukraine. Dear Mr. President and Acting President, please give instructions to the appropriate services and ministries to verify the legality of activities in the territory of Ukraine’s Russian television channels because their activities are directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u242	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u243	. to disunity, national hostility and conflicts inter-regional in Ukraine, to incite the collapse of the constitutional system. I also ask for consideration of the possibility of appointing an authorized Supreme Council on the information policy of coordination in Derteradio and the National Council on Television and Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u244	Thank you. People's deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u245	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. I understand that the formation of most positions is a very important issue. But I'm asking everyone to get down on the ground. We did the right thing by canceling medical reform, but I want to remind you that right now I've got a report coming to me from all the addresses to remind the MPs that they voted in favour of my inheritance bill in the past by three hundred votes that Victor Janukovich vetoed. And yet in all this talk show, all the leaders of the opposition promised me that the first question would be my inheritance law, the veto overcoming, is 0985. So fulfill your responsibilities and go down to the ground. And jobs are secondary. In our country, a son should not buy a house for his father, and it should be in a rural area where the heads of the bulldozers are formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u246	Please, National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u247	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, dear colleagues, we all want to put to the vote laws that are very important from the point of view of each of us and that law is in the hands of every deputy. But I suggest, first of all, that we focus on the formation of power and that through the ministries, through the Cabinet of Ministers, the committees work on those bills that we're going to vote on in the hall. Otherwise, we can stress a lot in the heat of things that then won't hold up the budget that we're going to have to cancel. Last but not least, I ask that we have materials either on our hands or on our computer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u248	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Odarchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u249	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Valentinovich, you are now acting as President. I have a request and an offer to relieve you of your duties as Judge Kiriev. His guilt is obvious, it's your authority now, he's a criminal, it's even proven by the European Court of Justice. And I'm asking the prosecution to have criminal cases brought against him for what he did as a criminal. Alexander Valentinovich, I support all the national MPs who demand an election in Kiev. Kiev deserves local self - government. I believe that this will largely resolve the situation. But I insist that these be elections not only to the Kyiv City Council and the city’s head but also to the district councils. Now it's absolutely obvious that this chain is necessary. People demand that it be there. And it'll also give us an opportunity to hold presidential elections, because it's one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u250	Thank you. National MP Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u251	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I want to continue this subject. Let me welcome the President’s responsibilities and say that you are now under the responsibility of upholding the Constitution in Ukraine, and the Constitution in Ukraine requires the immediate election of the city’s head and deputies of the Kyivrada. But for the sake of the economy, we can do this together with the presidential elections. And it would have been very important before that, Alexander Valentine's Day, and it would have been very important to do so: return the district councils to Kiev, with no circuits without district councils. For this there is a bill that brings us back to the 2010 situation -- the Capital Act -- namely, if there is a district council in Kiev, there must be. If there's a district, there's got to be a district council. And then we'll have Kyivrada, and the district councils, and the city heads, and the presidential councils. What's more, it's going to allow the city to run normally, because now without the district election boards to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u252	People's Deputy Orotyuk. And I would like to ask you, dear colleagues, can we put the risk under performances? We can. Please, the national MP of Orotyuk is speaking. I'm sorry, dear colleagues, we've discussed the matter. Before I give my word to the Attorney General's office, I want to read the announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules and according to a personal statement, I am reporting the withdrawal of the Party of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Kartashova Evgen Grigorovich. And I'm asking the People's Deputy, Mr. Nenetzky, for the co-existence of the authorized Supreme Council for the Attorney-General's Office, to speak with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, during my report today, I was referring to the detained, arrested, pardoned, lawyer of Djinni's car. I've informed you that appropriate instructions have been given regarding his release from custody. So I got a call from one of our colleagues, Valérie Carpuntsz, who's currently meeting him at the S.I.A., and he's being released. And he's released. [[Applause]] This is the last person arrested, Smaliya's lawyer. This is the last person arrested.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-23-m0.u254	We thank the prosecution for the speedy execution of the Supreme Council's orders. Dear colleagues! A lot of suggestions and important suggestions, you've heard all the people's MPs say about their acceptance. But we, the honourable colleagues, still need to be normal, I agree with the remarks so that the MPs get the texts, not my vote. In order for us not to vote, but to agree between the committees and the MPs, to form a day-to-day order, priority issues certainly, but still this should be systematic and predictable. Therefore, respectable colleagues, in addition. The problem is that -- one of our colleagues was speaking -- that someone needs a job, not a job situation. The problem of a colossal danger of a lack of real power in Ukraine, executive power. The Supreme Council cannot replace executive power; Parliament has its tasks under the Constitution. So restoring the system of executive power is our priority. In this regard, honourable colleagues, in order to normalize Parliament's work and ensure that by Tuesday, as we spoke to you, the work on the formation of the majority and the government of popular trust is decided on the following: 11 o'clock tomorrow. I'll remind you. Listen, please. Calm down! At 11 o'clock on Monday, we're meeting with you at the Conciliation Council to clarify the priority issues of the agenda that we're going to discuss, and at 16 o'clock we're going to work every day, Monday we're going to continue our session of our Parliament. So the continuation of the Supreme Council meeting is announced Monday at 4:00 p.m. Thank you.
