ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. And traditionally, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of the national deputies of Vitov Anatoly Mikolaiovich and Martinyuk Leonty Svetoslavovich. Dear colleagues, please report to the Nationals. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:31]] There are 270 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Ladies and gentlemen, on July 17, 2014, in the East of our country, terrorists from the Russian Zenith missile complex "Book" were presumptuously hit by Malaysia Airlines' Boeing-777 plane, which carried out a regular flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur. A total of 298 people were on board, including 80 children. Sadly, no one was saved. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we express our heartfelt sympathy to all family members and loved ones. Please honor the memory of those who died by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. All criminals involved in this horrendous crime will not escape just punishment. And today it is necessary to unite not only all Ukrainian citizens but the entire world community in the fight against international terrorism, which is now coordinated and financed by the Russian Federation. Relevant decisions are made today by the people’s deputies, and I hope that the Supreme Council will accept them today as a whole. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have time with you to announce statements and statements by representatives of MPs and factions. Please register with the National Deputies for the announcement of speeches and statements. Please. Please, the word is given by the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" Union of the Magnibok Jaroslav. Please. Oleg Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, once again we repeat the words that it is already quite obvious that there is no anti-terrorist operation on Donbas, but an open aggression by Russia against Ukraine. In fact, it is a war for the territorial integrity and independence of the Ukrainian State. That's why "Freedom" on and on insists that a regime of martial law has been introduced in Ukraine. This regime should not be implemented throughout Ukraine, this regime should be introduced not even in the territory of all Donetsk and Lugansk regions, it can be implemented in the areas of those areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, which are threatened by terrorists, invaders and separatists. We usually welcome the efforts of our Ukrainian forces, which gradually release Ukrainian cities and villages from bandits and invaders. But we believe that for further successful action, as well as for the next time to resolve the issue of the cleansing of the terrorists of these territories and the introduction of a peaceful life, such a state of war must be declared. It is also necessary to acknowledge on a national level the fact that Russian aggression against Ukraine, to apply to the countries of the West, not even with a request, but to terminate any agreement with the Russian Federation, and we don't care if it is a political agreement, whether it is a certain economic benefit of some of our European partners. Give us direct military assistance and introduce broad, widest sector sanctions against Putin's regime. What I want to say is, perhaps if they had listened to Parliament, Freedom and other parliamentarians who demanded martial law, there might not have been such a tragedy with the destruction of an international Malaysian aircraft in Ukraine, because then the corridors of international flights in this area would have been closed. And one more thing. Some associate a military situation with an early election, which they say will prevent us from having an early election — a lie and a lie, a mercy of the eyes. In fact, Midan demanded not only that Parliament be reinstated and that, in fact, the community demand that such elections take place in a proportionate manner, behind open lists, but not under an old Yanukiv pro-majority law that will not give a qualitative change to Parliament. The Majdan requires illustrations of the cleansing of power, the ban on the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions. So we're declaring a state of war for a month, the President will have enough opportunity to clear the threatened territories, and on August 24 the President can announce the date of the early elections at the end of October -- the beginning of November.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u4	This is our position: we are both in the state of war, and we are in the parliamentary elections for the term. The state of war, the order of affairs, the early elections, the re-launching of parliament, the new elections to local authorities, the construction, the reconstruction of the state and the happy life of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! No commies and no regionals!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u5	The word is Olesia Donya, the Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u6	Alexander Donnie. Ladies and gentlemen! From the group "North European Ukraine" I also have to say that the group supports the introduction of martial law on the part of Lugansk and Donetsk, where war is taking place. And today I want to dedicate my speech to our foreign policy. Ukraine in this situation when it was under Russian aggression is grateful to all of our allies: grateful to the United States, who immediately announced that they had information that a rocket had been launched on Malaysian aircraft from the territory controlled by Russian militants; grateful to the Prime Minister of Australia, who immediately invited the Russian ambassador and announced his protest. But at the same time, we marvel at some of our European partners. If Mrs. Merkel is now being called, compared, Mrs. Ribbentrop, that's because she's trying with the modern Hitler-Putinian to negotiate some kind of fast-track negotiation. I'm talking to the German Embassy: it wasn't just spam when thousands of Ukrainians wrote "Danke Frau Ribbentrop!"and this is the position of the Ukrainians. Don't negotiate with Putin on Ukraine's ribbons, because otherwise you will have thousands of dead people on your conscience who are now in Ukraine: they belong to foreigners, these corpses, or are they Ukrainian corpses. Otherwise everyone will say, "Danke Frau Ribbentrop!" And now, about our foreign policy, and more faithfully, about our foreign policy. If we have the right to criticize our foreign partners, we should also talk about three of our breakthroughs. I apologize where, at this point, three specific things: where is our application to join NATO -- once; where from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the protest note was against the crashed Malaysian aircraft and against the defeated advance Ukrainian aircraft, why wasn't this note of protest -- two; and the third -- and when will the final ratification of the Treaty with the European Union, signed on 27 July, already ratified by Moldova, ratified by Georgia? And it turns out we're in some kind of subordination of Russia, because the next one, just so you know, is scheduled for Russia until September 12. On September 12th, i.e. two and a half months, Ukraine should wait for Russia to agree to ratify the agreement. So three specific questions. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from NATO, no one can now, no bloc, protect Ukraine's interests. This is even more important than the European Union. I remind you, in 2008, there were three heads of state: the Prime Minister, the President and the Head of the Supreme Council. Where's the position of these three leaders now? We need a statement to join NATO. I am addressing Mr. Klimkin as Minister of Foreign Affairs. We all voted for you here when the President represented you. Why, as soon as the Russian plane crashed the Ukrainian military plane, you did not call the Russian ambassador and declare it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u7	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u8	Vote and I did not understand your position on this and the position of the President, who has not yet entered into a ratification agreement on, I'm sorry, the ratification of the agreement with the European Union. Mainly, Maidan was going to sign and ratify this agreement. After all, it is a right and it is necessary for the President to enter into this agreement and 300 deputies, not 226. We need to look at what we have if we're going to make a move.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u9	Thank you. National MP Simonenko KPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u10	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Tragedy, of course, erupted throughout the world. And, in expressing deep sympathy for the relatives and loved ones who died in this terrible disaster, we, the Communists, require the Government of Ukraine, the Ukrainian authorities, to create all the conditions for the objective and operational work of the international commission. We propose to refrain from political statements until the final formal investigation and establishment by the international Commission of all the causes and circumstances of this terrible tragedy. One tragedy should not give rise to another large-scale tragedy of the transition of war within Ukraine to inter-State war. We must understand with you today, dear colleagues, that today's war in Ukraine has led to the killing of Ukrainians, the deaths of civilians, old people, women, children. This madness needs to be stopped today. The situation in Ukraine has deteriorated dramatically, and in the six months of so-called Euro-Integration Reforms, the political forces that took over the country's economy have lost strategic markets without replacing European and American markets. Hundreds of enterprises in Donetsk and Lugansk areas have entered the new credit cordal, destroyed and stopped. Yesterday, Finance Minister Schlapak informed of the Government's next initiatives, which are only one, to cut down the financing of all social programmes and the interests of ordinary citizens. The Government proposes to return to the same order that was at Yushchenko-Janukovich when a heavy pension was paid according to the interests of the Act. Social programmes such as the provision of drinking water to the population, the treatment of child tuberculosis, diagnostics and disease prevention and medicine in general, education, particularly in rural areas, is reduced by environmental programmes, the financing of science, the construction of social housing, and thus, under the pretext of war, the oligarchs and officials are extorting the last cents from the people, and as a result they are shifting the budget into billions into their own pockets because they have already learned to steal war. The money of teachers, doctors, pensioners, small and medium-sized businesses, workers, farmers are being transferred as a result of these adventures, transferred to, practically, regular pockets of large businesses. The Government proposes to take people away, and we propose that the State budget be filled. Once again, I would like to emphasize to you that the anti-crisis programme of the Company is primarily to restore the governance of our country, to eliminate the pension reform, to further restore the property of the basic branch and industry to state control, that is, nationalization, laws. These are priority measures to prevent rising prices and tariffs for housing and utilities, this is also a return to the State property of the Krivoroz metalworking combination, which is a change in the introduction of concession laws, the actual filling of the State budget. We propose a specific programme that will give.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u11	Half a minute, time to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u12	We propose a specific programme that will fill the State budget, because this programme requires the oligarchs to send all the money that is earned by the Ukrainian people to the State Treasury. And another suggestion. We, the Communists, today propose that, in the end, the special commission established by the Supreme Council inform the people of Ukraine, who killed Ukrainian citizens in Odessa, who killed Ukrainian citizens in Majdan, who killed in Mariupola, in Krasnoarmeysk and many others.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u13	From the "Fatherland" faction, the word is given to the national deputy Sergei Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u14	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! I think that if Parliament doesn't approve the immediate action plan today, it will be too late tomorrow. The Fatherland faction is proposing a series of measures that we think can at least move from conversation to so-called "cosmation," from what is called "negotiations," because there can be no negotiations with terrorists and invaders, to concrete actions. What are our suggestions? First offer. Today the first issue of the day is the Law on Partial Military Mobilization. Please tell me how to discuss this in Parliament without the presence of the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Leader of the military state? So this is our next offer. This issue should be discussed in the presence of the higher leadership of the state, the higher leadership of the power structures, and our offer in a closed regime. We have something to talk about. Until we figure out the first months of the anti-terror operation until we figure out, all the further steps will be a pure adventure. Moreover, the introduction of partial mobilization without the introduction of military status in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions is a continuation of the policy of osmosis and concealment of the real facts that occur in the state. Only a powerful mobilized army, internal forces, the Security Service can counter the military aggression of a foreign state. The second question. To what extent will the ratification of the Agreement with the European Union continue to be excluded from Parliament? Our faction requires and is an appropriate decision to immediately ratify the Association Agreement with the European Union. This will open up open contact with the countries of the European Union, with military and political associations, as direct military aggression by the Russian Federation is taking place, for military assistance to Ukraine. And thirdly, this is a situation that is happening today on the Ukrainian fronts in the fight against Russian aggression. In our view, this plan of action must come to an end. This is a clear decision by Parliament to allow foreign military units to enter Ukraine to protect the country's sovereignty. So all these questions are urgent. And we ask them in this order to consider them at the parliamentary session. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u15	Thank you. Vitaly Kowalczuk, from the "BACK" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! After the terrorists in Donbas have struck down a civilian plane and caused the one-minute death of nearly 300 innocent people, we, as the Ukrainian Parliament, must do everything we can to give the world a proper assessment of the threat of terrorism supported by the Russian Federation. We need to make sure that so-called DNRs, LNRs and other terrorist groups are internationally recognized by terrorist organizations. We must ask the parliaments, governments and peoples of the world to put pressure on the Russian Federation not to allow them to continue to support terrorism in Ukraine. Therefore, the Vitalia Klitschka faction proposes to support the project of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's application to counter the proliferation of Russian-backed international terrorism (registration number 4321a). Moreover, such opposition must finally take place in this room. Alexander Valentine's Day, convinced that in today's situation, you are the presiding officer to stop any kind of act aimed at supporting terrorists or disguising people who are fighting terrorism. Dear colleagues, apart from military opposition to terrorists, Ukraine must finally systematically address the consequences of Russia's aggression and restore territories freed from terrorist control and Russian occupation. That's why I'm talking to the government. Finally, we propose to create a Ministry of Reintegration that deals with the issue of providing refugees, coordinating the restoration of the infrastructure of the freed areas, and policy on temporarily occupied territories in the Crimea, including their return to Ukraine's jurisdiction. And most of all. The responsibility for the situation in the country should be borne by those involved in its creation. What's more, when we read reports that one of our colleagues has a whole stock of Russian weapons, and the other one is involved in, in some way, Separatists' equipment, or they're flashing around them in the near past. Therefore, Impact insists on the review and approval of this week's Order on the permanent termination of the Supreme Council's terms of reference (registration number 4107a). We have to demonstrate to the people of Ukraine our willingness and ability to go through the political illustration and hold the parliamentary elections for the term. We also need to consider laws that apply to the electoral system and make changes to it that will make the deputies accountable to the people. And the last. At the same time, parliament and government can, and should continue to work, adopt laws that are essential.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u18	Adopt a budget to provide support to the army, adequate social protection for military personnel, and all categories of citizens who need social support and protection. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u19	From the MP's "For Peace and Stability" national deputy Gruszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u20	The venerable Ukrainian community, respected colleagues, witnessed a terrible tragedy a few days ago, and this tragedy took place in Ukraine. Why did this happen? The world is waiting for an explanation. And no doubt, after examining all the circumstances, such answers will be provided by a competent international commission that has begun to work. There is no doubt in the MPs' group "For Peace and Stability" about the profession of experts. But neither should the Supreme Council stand outside this investigation, because this is Ukrainian land and this is our airspace. We would not like the report of this commission to remain a secret document as it does not happen with the resonant investigations. So the suggestion is to create a temporary commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council, working with international experts, analyse data and answer, including the question: Why was there not a closed air space where fighting was taking place; why did the radio intercept, photos and other materials only appear after tragic events? This commission should answer a lot of questions, and we will be waiting for them. In the Supreme Council and in society, unfortunately, there are persistent proposals for the introduction of military status in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. At the same time, no one calls for the evacuation of civilians. This shameful attitude toward the people of the East has already been manifested when the ATO was introduced when the fighting began and no one warned the peaceful inhabitants that they would die, that their homes would be destroyed. As a result, there are many casualties among the civilian population. In this context, the Peace and Stability Group proposes to create humanitarian corridors for the exit of civilians. These people should be able to obtain documents, all the necessary items, possessions, and leave dangerous territory. In the meantime, the government must establish an evacuation zone to provide them with everything they need, guaranteeing them security and life, and then introducing a military state. We all need to understand: no matter what war, but peace will always be, peace through war or peace through peace negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u21	From the "Economic Development" group of the People's Deputy of China.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! There are unprecedented tragic events that affect not only Ukraine, the East of Ukraine, but the entire international community. The tragic death of Boeing-777 passengers once again confirms that Ukraine's opposition to aggression by Russia is a problem not only of our state, but it essentially affects the entire system of European and global collective security. And we call on our international partners to stop acting on double standards, understand the threat to world civilization, and unite efforts to prevent any repetition of tragic events or attempts to resolve matters by military means. It is also very important that the integration of Economic Development insists on this, and it supports the Supreme Council's decree to refer to a global partnership for the consolidation of efforts and the resistance to international terrorism. The effectiveness of the entire system of power in Ukraine is essential. More than ever, it is necessary to stop the various political intrigues, to understand that the state is in a very serious situation of deepening and security in terms of territorial integrity, and deepening the systemic socio-economic crisis. In these circumstances, how is it possible not to have an approved state defense order at this time? How can it not be understood at this time that the ATO requires a new format, which provides for a higher level of governance, coordination of action, the non-permissive death of peaceful citizens? It is very important that the Government and Parliament are already working on a comprehensive plan to rebuild the business infrastructure, the activity on the Donbass. Otherwise, we have the threat of increasing refugees from East Ukraine to hundreds of thousands of our citizens with the corresponding consequences. Instead of developing internal market development programmes, increasing business activity, creating conditions for cooperation at the National Bank, the government, parliament, addressing the huge problems of adapting Ukraine's economy to the conditions of free trade in the EU, minimizing the effects of market losses in the East, they are engaged in successive secesters, which will provide an even higher level of deep crisis and lower quality levels, and citizens' income. The Economic Development Union calls for a united effort to work hard to cope with these crises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u23	From the faction of the Party of the Region, the People's Deputies of Doubenkov. Please. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy of Novinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u24	Respectable Ukrainians! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On 17 July, there was a terrible tragedy in the sky over Donetsk, killing almost 300 people. This tragedy is the world's most severe air crash in the twenty-first century. Innocent people have died, and today we mourn with the families of the dead and the peoples of those countries. It is our duty to do our utmost to conduct a thorough, comprehensive, objective investigation into all the circumstances of this tragic case, involving the best international experts. Full and unhindered access by international experts to the scene of events and evidence must be ensured, as well as the maximum facilitation of their work. The position of the faction of the Party of the Regions on the death of persons in this aircraft is clear: all those responsible, and those who pressed the button and who gave the command, and those whose fault the weapons were in the hands of the perpetrators, must be placed and severely punished, and the punishment must be inevitable. I am sure that in the shortest term all the circumstances of the tragedy will be clarified. But issues remain concerning the actions of the relevant Ukrainian services responsible for the organization and security of flights in the Ukrainian sky. Why the air space over the war zone was not closed even after radio interception services were provided with evidence of the possibility of using the Buck. Has Ukraine been notified of this? I believe that you and I must have the answers to these questions. The faction of the Party of the Regions is therefore taking the initiative and has already submitted relevant documents on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the deaths of an airliner of Malaysian Airlines. The work of the Commission should not be political, but merely technical. The outcome of the commission's work will be our contribution to the international investigation. But now it is clear that the main culprit of the tragedy is the war that is taking place in south-east Ukraine. It can be called a different one, masked as an anti-terrorist operation, described as a suppression of the separatist rebellion, but on both sides, people are killed as a result of hostilities, hundreds of civilians and soldiers, and sons are returned to their mothers in zinc graves. More than one heavenly hundred, thousands of our fellow citizens on this list of heavenly hundreds. In whatever language they speak, they are all Ukrainians. There is nothing more important than human life, no power to shed blood. It is necessary to extinguish the fire that today is not limited to Donbass, the fire of mutual hatred, intransigence and hostility all over Ukraine. How much more blood has to be shed in the south-east to start talking to each other so that power can hear its people. There must now be only one question on the agenda of all political forces: ceasefire, peace and the search for compromise. Political interests must move forward. We call upon all parties to the conflict to cease hostilities immediately and to begin negotiations. Peace is a guarantee that the tragedy of July 17 will not happen again. The Party of the Regions considers the adoption of the new Ukrainian Constitution to be a prerequisite for peace. The Constitution, which would guarantee a new format of relations between the centre and the regions, would ensure real, rather than declarative, decentralization of power. We believe that the Constitution is fundamental.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u25	Finish the show, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u26	The principle of direct selection of the heads of the regions, the introduction of regional budgetary autonomy and the establishment of the constitutional status of the Russian language should be laid down. We also believe that humanitarian issues need to be addressed in the light of the specificities of the regions and the views of their inhabitants, not on the basis of Kiev Cabinet submissions. Only such a constitution could become a constitution for the unification of the country. To commemorate the victims of Boing and the hundreds of our fellow citizens who died in a terrible bloody conflict, we call for peace, dialogue and joint work on the new Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, from the non-fractional, let's give one performance. Angela Labunska, please, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u28	Alexander Valentinovich, I very much ask you to put to the vote today a decree on the release of the Minister of Health. You see what's happening in our country, look at the people who are wounded today. No one does them at all. That today the MPs in the districts where people are wounded help with medicine and everything else. As far as fighting is concerned, it's all down there for the purchases and everyone else -- it's all down. In maternity homes today, there is no vaccine for infants at all. I don't understand, four months of the Minister of Health, I realize there's some merit to Maidan, but it's one of the most devastating ministries in our country today. I'm just asking, look, the people who stand under the Supreme Council for you to put to the vote today the Order on the Liberation of Mr. Musia. And we've solved this, we've appointed a professional, because we have no right to delay. Look what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u29	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, we have a very busy agenda with you, very important questions. With regard to this proposal, I know that several factions have also approached me on this issue: requiring a vote. Once people's MPs, MPs and factions are included in the agenda, we can consider this when Parliament agrees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the order of the day of our session. And the first is a very important question -- the question put by the President of Ukraine -- about partial mobilization. According to the requirements of Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution, you know, partial mobilization should also be approved by law that approves the decree of the President of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Council Secretary Andry Volodymyrovich is invited to the parliamentary rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u30	Good afternoon! Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by President of Ukraine's Decree of 21 July this year No. 607 on Partial Mobilization, which the Head of State signed on the basis of a Decision of the National Security and Defence Council of 17 July. In this regard, the results of an analysis of the development of the situation in eastern Ukraine have been taken into account, which strongly shows that Russia is continuing its policy of escalating military resistance in this region, and is making every effort to create conditions and introduce its regular troops into Ukraine in the form of peacekeeping forces. During the last week alone, a regrouping of Russian troops and its growth were carried out near the border with Ukraine. And for the moment, there are about 41,000 Russian military personnel on the border with Ukraine, including North, East, South and Crimea. As part of the formed group of Russian troops, 150 tanks, about 1,400 units of other armory, and 500 units of artillery systems are concentrated in the Donetsk operational direction. This situation is seen in other operational directions, where there are a total of about 300 military units, including tanks, rocket fire systems "The City" and the state-of-the-art Tornado systems. As of July 20th, 14th, the Ukraine has already carried out two rounds of mobilisation that have been carried out in accordance with the President's executive decrees of March 17th of this year, as well as from May 6th of this year, and have been supported by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down, there's a report on the fundamentally important issues, the issue of the security of our country. Please sit in your seats and listen carefully to the Secretary’s report to the National Security and Defence Council. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u32	So I'm going to repeat that two phases of mobilisation have been carried out. And now your attention is being suggested, and your request to support the third phase of mobilisation and partial mobilization. As a result, in the fall of this year, 53 troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and 18 parts of other military formations were mobilized and brought into combat. What has enabled us to create a group of troops and forces that are adequate to the level of threat in March-June this year, to strengthen the protection of the state border in dangerous ways, where fighting for the protection of the Ukrainian border is still taking place today, and to prevent Russia's regular troops from invading the mainland Ukraine, both from Crimea and from the north, east and from the Transnistrian direction. At the same time, in recent weeks, the apparent success of our operation has led to a change of tactics from the Russian Federation and its fighters. The Russian territory is being bombarded by the positions of our armies. The Russian Federation is increasing its supply of illegal gang-forming, Russian fighters in Donetsk and Lugansk areas, heavy armoured equipment, artillery systems, including rocket fire systems, and self-propelled anti-aircraft systems. In recent days, we have seen the facts of such a change in tactics when fighters, terrorists are firing at an empty territory of the Russian Federation, and in response we are being struck at our positions, our positions of troops, and under the cover of these artillery strikes, which appear to be in response, attempts are being made to break into the Russian Federation's armored convoys into Ukraine. When the talk here was about the terrible tragedy that took place in Ukraine, the crash of a passenger plane by Russian fighters when they thought that this tragedy would stop anyone, we can now claim that Putin is not stopping, that the Russian Federation continues to hand over arms and send fighters to Ukraine. The evidence of provocative shootings by militants and Russian artillery and aviation systems in Ukrainian cities and populated areas in the territory has been confirmed. Such actions are classified by the Ukrainian Defense of Ukraine Act as aggression against our state. Under these conditions, in order to preserve the ability of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military forces to carry out military tasks at the ATO, the increase of troops and forces to reflect possible incursions and planned regrouping of special forces is proposed to carry out a third turn of partial mobilization. This will further lead to the fighting state of 15 battle-parts and 44 battle-supply parts to provide for the defence needs. Under the third line of partial mobilization, a system will also be set up to complete the incompleteness in the individual warehouse and to strengthen the echelon of the protection of the state border and to increase the force and means of territorial defense, strengthening the component of the technical cover, transport infrastructure, and its restoration. I want to point out because I have time. You remember when we had the first and second lines of partial mobilization, we had a huge amount of difficulty. And I know there will be questions in the room today about the security of our military. Indeed, in the first line of mobilization, we did not have sufficient security for our military, but at this point this system is already in place. It's set up here in Ukraine. Not yet, of course, the solution to all the problems of providing the army, but there is a system of security, and every day, the Ukrainian army gets both armoured vests and other weapons of war. And if, in the first line of mobilization, we've made up mostly combat parts, when in the first line of mobilization we've mobilized, first of all, those specialists who have a more combat-related specialty -- gunships, grenade launchers, people who know how to use technical equipment, now, in this wave of mobilization, the greatest emphasis is on supply and securing parts, securing the front. So more in this mobilization, there's going to be an emphasis on securing those parts that are supporting the army that are providing the army. At this point, when in the east, despite the tragedies, though many of our soldiers and fighters are now in a difficult state, but there is a visible fracture. And in order for us to be able to support our guys in front of us, in order to be able to strengthen our positions and partly rotate there, we need to make a decision today on partial mobilization. It predicts 45 days to rehabilitate. And during these 45 days, the Ministry of Defense, the National Guard of Ukraine, the border guards will be able to complete the parts that are needed today to expel Russian invaders from Ukraine, to expel Russian militants who are now occupying our cities and killing civilians. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by many factions to be able to ask the question of the reporter. I'm asking you to sign up for the faction to ask a question. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's Deputy Robber, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u34	Good Health! It's complicated, and it's a strange situation. On the one hand, our President is asking to vote on additional mobilization. On the other hand, there is no fixed state in the country. We don't have a military condition, we have an ATO. And we're already doing a second mobilization of boys. Third, third. We don't know the number of deaths, and we don't understand why we still don't have a single control vertical for all military actions. Because it's the only way to win the war. And we're having a war. So before declaring additional mobilization, we demand that the Supreme Council meet in a closed regime with the presence of the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Internal Affairs. To understand the real situation and then to make decisions together, taking responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that it is entirely in the matter and in the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a closed session with force. And I want to remind you, by the way, that we've held such closed sessions in previous periods. And when there was a frank, frank conversation here in the hall, and if there was such a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to have such a conversation, of course I'm sure, and the President of Ukraine, and all the forces will report in detail on the course of events in the East, on the course of events that are in Lugansk and Donetsk today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u36	Please, National Deputy Žuravsky, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u37	Please tell me, these measures that you are proposing will help stop the aggression and bring about peace in Ukraine, and how long do you think it will take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u38	Thank you so much for asking. And, of course, there's no simple answer. Because I have emphasized and emphasized that today, in fact, Ukraine is facing such an undeclared war with one of the largest nations in the world, which has 2 million weapons, the nuclear power. And, of course, to this day, Ukraine has been able to stop this incursion, the fact that today we have located groups of Russian militants in a small area, and every day a new and new city is being liberated, a whole series of Ukrainian cities, where infrastructure is being built up, are already being set free. And today we see this success. And we predict that this wave of mobilization, including allowing in the shortest terms to clear Ukraine of the fighters who came to our land with guns. But of course, setting clear and accurate dates would be unfair and would be false on my part. I'm sure there will be a victory, and this victory will be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u39	National MP Martinjak, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u41	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u42	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, the reporter, referring to the members of the Supreme Council, said that there were more than 150 tanks on the border of Ukraine, that the territory of Ukraine was being shot down from the territory of the Russian Federation. We have a question for you. Why don’t you ask about the introduction of a state of emergency? Military status, military status. Today, tens of thousands of our people are fighting and dying on the front, and we're talking about we're conducting an anti-terrorism operation. The Bouquet system is a system that operates around the world in a postal way. As it became a terrorist, 80 children and over 300 people were lost. Today we want to know and get an answer from yours, from the leader of the PNB, what salary does a fighter get on the front? Until today, we have decided that those who have consumer loans from wages will not cheat. We're fighters.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u43	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u44	Fighters on the front say there are 1,200 dollars coming today, and the bank is canceling interest on the loans. We want to understand what happens in hospitals and in providing medical treatment for the wounded. We insist that the head of the anti-terror operation, the minister of defense, be heard and that a meeting of the Supreme Council be held to answer all these questions. To this day, there is no family work in the regions. Please tell me, how many military commanders have been punished for illegal recruitment to the army? And today you're again calling us for a partial mobilization without getting an answer. Do you know how many people? One breadwinner serves in the army today. Please ask these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u45	Thank you. First of all, I would like to adjust, I am neither the leader nor the head of the RNB, the head of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine is President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. I'll make you a deal, all right, ma'am. On your questions, I was saying, on the previous question, that the Supreme Council has the right to call on any force in order to give a detailed report on any issue, either the ATO leader, or the Defense Minister, or the head of the Security Service, any of the forces. Moreover, I think this practice has been. And if the Supreme Council makes that decision, of course we will. You will be able to provide detailed help from that point of view to the executives of the appropriate powers. With regard to the military situation, the National Security and Defence Council has prepared a number of documents that provide for state action, both in the event of an invasion, and in the case of an invasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u46	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u47	It'll go on. But this decision, I stress, can only be taken under the Constitution by one body, a collective body that includes all the forces and the President of Ukraine is the Council of National Security and Defence. When such a decision is made, then I will be able to inform and inform him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u48	People's MP Miroshnichenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u50	Please turn on Yuri the Orphan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u51	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm speaking as a member of the National Security and Defence Committee. The National Security and Defence Committee has repeatedly called upon you as a professional institution to establish a state of war and argued this decision. All the military, all the authorities who come to the committee say it's an irreversible decision. Your task is to prepare an appropriate Presidential order. Why are professional decisions not taken, but are political decisions approved? The second question. You probably know that if there was a war situation, the plane of Malaysian Airlines would not have been shot down over Donetsk, because there would have been covert air space. Question three. At what cost will this partial mobilization take place? Costs are in the Reserve Fund. At the expense of a local budget that's already torn off and everything's been taken from it. If there was a state of war, the funds would be off the contingency fund. And one last question. We ask very much that when this partial mobilization takes place, it is not called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u52	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u53	We ask that we do not invite children who are the breadwinners of the family, one child in the family, to take into account the social situation of the people. Yes, the poorest are called, and the rich can be redeemed. That's why it needs mobilization, it needs rotation, but it also needs military status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u54	Thank you. I've already answered the previous question, and I want to confirm once again that this decision on the state of war is being implemented by a collective body, and given your letters that we received, that we've been working on, all the necessary documents on that subject are prepared. There will be a decision of the NPB, then there will be an order of the President and then there will be a decision of the Supreme Council. Because as well as partial mobilization, so does the Supreme Council's decision to decide on the state of war in Ukraine. As far as your suggestions are concerned, they were probably not fully included in the previous partial mobilization. Now I'm going to pay special attention to the Ministry of Defense to recruit specialists, and I'm stressing that there aren't 18-year-old boys here, there's a partial mobilization of those people who have already gone to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the retired officers, the people who have experience in the service and are recruited exclusively into the specialties that are necessary for one part or another. And I especially stress that people who aren't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u55	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u56	Who are not socially secure to pay particular attention during the mobilization process if the decision is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u57	National MP Matvienkov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u58	57th Precinct, Mariupol, Matvienkov. Your Honor, I have a question for you. First. We have always insisted and insisted that mobilization in this situation should be purely voluntary. But I have specific questions for you. First. How many people were mobilized during the first phase of mobilization? How many have died? How many have been injured? How many of them are still in the troops? How many have been mobilized? This time. Second question. Confirm or disprove the facts that appear in the press today that, after training for war or reconciliation, those who were called, 40 per cent of those who were called in the first phase of the mobilization are now in the military and, because of their technical condition, are not involved in the operation of the ATO by virtue of their moral spirit? Is that so or not, please say it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u59	So on the second question, I'm denying the information that you're saying that 40 percent are not involved. All units that were mobilized, formed, carrying out their combat tasks on different front areas, I emphasize, all of them. What about the number of people mobilized? I've been consulting before my speech, and unfortunately, I want to mention this information is closed, and I won't be able to report it from this rostrum. The number of people being mobilized at that time and the number of people being mobilized to mobilize in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard and the Border Guard, that is, this information is not to be distributed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u60	People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u61	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And first of all, I'm talking to all my colleagues. I realize that there will now be a pre-election campaign, which will shout louder about the state of emergency and military status, as it were, to score enough points. But I suggest we stop prying about this issue, and we have a specific document that was introduced by the President of Ukraine -- a decree on mobilization, partial mobilization. There is an offer to stop at this very point. And to you, Mr. Andrey, specific questions that concern our faction. First question. Still, there's different information from different sources, including in power, will this partial mobilization be anticipated as a result of at least a partial rotation in the anti-terrorist area? At least part-time leave is given to those guys who sit there for three or four months. First question. And the second question. This is the principle of our faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u62	Please let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u63	And the second question. To be sent to the antiterrorist area: first, of course, experts who have experience, on the other hand, to ensure that these experts are adequately protected by the State, have uniforms, have needed armor, helmets, weapons, and so forth. So everything we need from the Supreme Council is ready to help you. But to protect all the people who are involved in the anti-terror operation, to protect our military personnel, to protect our boys from these bandits who operate there in eastern Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. These are a few questions, I'll answer each of them. First of all, the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, has commissioned all these forces that will mobilize to mobilize just as much as the state can provide them with protective elements, to what extent the state can bear responsibility for their going to the front sufficiently protected. I say again, at the beginning it was difficult, and now the issue is especially about it, and it's about stressing that now those guys who go to the front have the security they need. About the rotation, the vacation. To date, the Ministry of Defence has developed a holiday system when a part of the soldiers are given a vacation, a trip home, such as a form such as recreation and a substitute for boys. And that's actually going to allow the mobilisation to take place. As you rightly pointed out, at least partial rotation, because many units from the beginning of the fighting are on the front -- a few months, it's extremely difficult and psychological, it's extremely complex and moral. And this mobilization is going to allow those guys who are now exhausted, but nevertheless, who are fighting and winning these days, even though they are partially doing this rotation. And you would like to emphasize one more thing about the condition of the operation. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u65	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u66	There's a victory battle going on, and near Lugansk, around Lugansk, there's a roadblock from the south, and Rubiène, Severodoneck, Lisichansk, Djerjinsk. Now these days our guys, we say so, they're not equipped enough, they're. Perhaps not all have been trained enough because there was no army. Only in their heroism, only in their dedication and love to Ukraine do they gain great victories today. I think that's the main result, and that's why the format that we have today that provides these victories is going to have to prove until we, as we said at the outset, remove this impurity from the territory of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please continue to insist on questions. Plenipotentiary of Molotock. And I'm going to give it to non-fractional people's deputies of theology, at this risk we're going to take.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u68	Good afternoon, Andrey Nikolaevich. The hammer, 160 district. Andrey Nikolayevich, right here, I'm here, yeah. Look, I'm in the Suma battalion, 15 battalions that we have in Lugansk County on the border with Russia. I've traveled there and I've heard so much outrage from people that when they're in Donbass, they're not in the ATO zone. As non-ATO participants, therefore, they do not fall under the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on Leniency on Loans, by percentage. First. And secondly, there's no material relationship like the ATOs. When they are practically in combat, they have the wages of the city of Suma. I'm asking you to figure this out. It's 15 battalions called the "territorial battalion."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. I was in northern Lugansk very recently, seeing many battalions. And I can tell you that all the combat units -- whether the military, or the army, or the border guards -- who are serving in the ATO area, are going to be given the status of a participant in combat. And so on this battalion, on a specific issue, I promise I'll sort it out and I'll sort it out, actually, with that battalion question. Although I have, first of all, there's almost no doubt that if we're in Lugansk on the border, it's a zone. Then let me get this straight and, with your permission, you're on your own. So please give me in writing, I'll give you a separate answer about this battalion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u71	I'm sorry, there was another question that sounded informal: who's in charge. [[B in m in s a l in]] First Deputy Director of the Security Service of Ukraine, Gritzak. And from Mrs. Hanna, how many are dead.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u72	Not exactly. Mr. Gretzak - he runs the Anti-Terrorism Center. An anti-terrorist operation today is led by Genstab Manzenko, Lieutenant General.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u73	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u74	So that's the vertical that coordinates the anti-terror operation today. Dear colleagues, let's ask you one last question, has been promised by non-factionals. The People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Please make an announcement in the watchtowers so that all the national deputies will enter the session hall immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, no matter how many questions we have about the Cabinet of Ministers, the military and the special authorities, there is such an objective situation today. We have an active phase of the ATO, for the first time, actually in the last six months of the winning fight. Today, military orders are urgently needed to strengthen our special units in areas where the active phase of the ATO is taking place. Therefore, all political speculations cannot be set up today. The question of whether the Council will work or not is an issue that we can consider when we need to ensure victory. Putin will be attacking Ukraine for 3-4 weeks, we can't afford not to vote on this issue today. So I'm asking everyone to support this extra mobilization.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u76	Thank you. I would also like to emphasise that the question of partial mobilization was adopted on the National Security and Defence Council and adopted unanimously. All the forces, all the members of the PNB believe that today the issue is very important regardless of other contexts, than other political global decisions. This question today is important for us to be able to accomplish the success that is now in the east. I'm going to use the possibility to answer, over 300 of our fighters have been killed on the front lines, and now, at last night, there are battles going on. I'm getting information about a lot of our brothers who were on Maidan, and now they're also getting hurt in front of Lugansk this night. It's a war, it's true, it's a war against us. And we're protecting our land there. And many of those on the front line are volunteers who know what they're doing, who know what the risks are. But they know that no one else will protect our land and our home. In many volunteer battalions there are local boys from local villages and cities. I talked to them, they said, "It's our homes, we have to protect them."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u77	Let me finish. Honorable colleagues, and we will approach the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u78	We understand how much pain there is for many families, for many families in Ukraine. And rarely do such trials come at the hands of one State or another, this trial has come upon us today. I'm sure we'll walk him through with dignity and I'm sure Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u79	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I ask you to make another announcement so that all the national MPs come in. I ask my colleagues to take their seats. I would like to make a small comment in connection with the questions raised during the presentations by representatives of various parliamentary groups and factions. First. As for the closed meeting of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I had a conversation with the Secretary of Defense yesterday, he and the Chief of General Staff are in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation directly coordinating the actions of our armed forces. That's why I'm going to be able to agree with the head of the Ministry of Defence, Henstab, with the President of Ukraine on the holding of a closed meeting of the Supreme Council this week, at your discretion. At the same time, let us be responsible for the issue and now take the defence minister out of the scene of an anti-terrorist operation, which, without any reason or possibility, he must carry out his duties in protecting our country. Next problem. Dear colleagues. I'm going to remind all the people's deputies that we've really made a third decision about partial mobilization. Why? Because Parliament decides to make partial mobilization for a limited period of 45 days. In view of the fact that the next 45 days have ended and the military action has not ended, the military leadership of the country should be able to mobilize the number of people needed to protect our country. And no comment. This is not discussed. This is an opportunity that we must provide for our military leadership. And that's why, dear colleagues, I'll remind you. The President's decree is in effect for two days, during which time the Supreme Council should approve this decree. And I'm asking, dear colleagues, we can discuss all the problems in a closed session. There are a lot of problems, but right now I'm asking that we unanimously support the Ukrainian Law on Approval of the President's Order on Partial Mobilization. Please prepare for the vote. [[Noise Nodes]] Please prepare for the vote. Please. To support, as a whole, the Presidential Decree Approval Act on Partial Mobilization in Ukraine, please vote, registration number 4320. [[11:10:51]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 72, Party of Regions – 2, Impact – 37, 27 – Economic Development, Freedom – 35, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – For Peace and Stability, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 35. I thank all the deputies who are responsible for protecting our Fatherland. Dear National Deputies! Please. I'd like to ask Deputy Lewchenko of the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u80	Respectable fellow MPs, respected Ukrainians! On 25 May, the country voted, an unprecedented vote, a huge number of votes received by the President, and people voted in favour of peace. People hoped the war would end. Today, their hopes have finally collapsed. Today we have learned that the 15 steps in the plan for the restoration of peace have failed. Today we realized that power would continue to kill Ukrainians today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u81	I'm asking you to turn off the People's MP's microphone! I'm asking the Fifth Column, which works for President Putin, who is fighting our country, to stop the provocation! We'll get you out of the hall! [[Applause]] Please, the People's Deputies of the Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u82	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Well, it would seem that a terrible war, terror, the Persian occupation would have taught everyone. The Ukrainian society already sees it differently, the eyes are open to many. But I can see that in Parliament we cannot learn to protect our territorial integrity and the independence of our state! Having a conscience, honor, and dignity in relation to the land that feeds you! And so, Mr. Head, I thank you for responding in time to similar expressions. But Parliament must respond accordingly. We have no right to hear how some singers there, Russian culture leaders talk about destroying Ukraine, and we don't announce it to them all the time. And we have no right to hear here, in Parliament, when the villains speak against Ukraine, the Ukrainian State, to be in this room! Get Lechchenka out of the plenary meeting now, according to the Rules and the Constitution!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! I understand they support the people's deputies. Irina's heroine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! You know, a week ago, I was in Slovenian with other national deputies. At the time, there were deputies from various political powers, from Freedom, from Fatherland, and there was also Deputy Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u85	I'm asking my colleagues to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u86	Thus, the Slavyanites cast him out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u87	Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. We will now put to the vote the question of the removal from the House of People's Deputies. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, we have a very important matter to discuss and from which we must make a decision. Please take your seats. At the suggestion of the People's Deputies, I will now put to the vote the issue of the removal from today's session of the People's Deputies of Lewchenk. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we will now vote. We're going to vote now. The proposal was for three sessions, so I understand. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies to remove from the Hall, the Sessional Hall, the People's Deputies of Lehchenka for three sessions. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u88	For the provocation he did in the hall, for that. Please vote. [[11:16:05]] For 171 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, you got it. Sorry, it's a procedural decision. I'm sorry. The factions. Parenthood – 69, Party of Regions – 0, Hit 37, Economic Development – 1, Freedom – 33, 16 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 15. People's deputy Levchenka please leave the hall. Dear colleagues, please leave the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Council system made a decision. I'm asking you not to interrupt the meeting. Keep your meetings open! [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't interrupt the meeting. Because you're about to be thrown out of the hall for provocation. Take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Colleagues, please take your seats! We will continue to work in Parliament. Colleagues, I ask you to sit in your workplace, the very important issues that we need to discuss right now, and from which we need to make a decision. Dear colleagues. I'm asking the Lewchenka People's Deputy to leave the session room. Don't interrupt the session, please. I'm asking the Lewchenka People's Deputy to leave the session room. We're wasting our time. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Heratchenko. Turn on from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u89	You know, a week ago, I was in Slovenian with members of the various factions of Parliament. And here in Central Square there were MPs from Freedom, from Fatherland, non-fractional, the only person that the people of Slovenia had thrown out of their square was Levchenko. Let us now make this decision to support the people of Slovenia who said that they were such an abomination that led the country to war that they did not want to see in their own square. And I think that we, as national MPs, and you, who have actually gathered voices there, have to support not only the Supreme Council today but also the people of Slovenia. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u90	Please, National Deputy Lazko and Krilenko, and we'll take the risk, we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u91	Dear citizens of Ukraine, a respected Ukrainian society! A party of Communists selling and misdemeanors of the Yanukovich gang is guilty of blood pouring on Ukrainian soil today. They have called upon our land of invaders, terrorists, and they have killed peaceful citizens in Donbas, Luhansk, Donetsk! Selling skins like Simonenko, like Ephraim in prison, should be long-standing, and they have mandates, they cover terrorists, they finance them! That is why I demand that the Attorney General's Office bring an immediate motion to Parliament to deprive those who serve Russia and those who serve the enemy of depriving them of their parliamentary mandates. Because we let them leave first, and then we heroically pretend that we're looking for them. Ephraim, tell us: Where is your family? I'll tell you where his family is, his entire family, including his grandchildren, took him to Moscow, and he's been going there for a long time. And he comes to us, tells us that grenades and fragments fall on him. If they had fallen, there would have been fewer problems in the country if they had.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u92	Please, National Deputy Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, let us move on to making a decision. Guys, I've been letting almost all the factions speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u93	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Now there's a vote that's very important to the country, a country essentially in a state of war with the Russian Federation, military personnel who, on the front line, need a rotation, just a replacement. Who voted essentially against it: almost the entire faction of regions, except for two patriotic people, a whole group called "For Peace and Stability" against rotation, to kill our military personnel, and the commune against rotation completely, to kill our Ukrainians further. So, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! First, a list of all those who did not vote for mobilization to the Voice of Ukraine. Secondly, all acts against territorial integrity and the protection of the state must be punished by removal from the hall. And the third. If a state of war is instituted, such statements will no longer have legal grounds. That is why we need to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u95	So we need to do this as quickly as possible. Shame on the traitors! Shame on Fifth Column! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u96	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Let's not waste the time we have to use to make decisions. We'll talk about it. I'll give you a chance to talk. Please don't indignant the hall, don't indignant, because it might end badly for you, first of all. Therefore, our honourable colleagues, we cannot, our Parliament cannot avoid the question of the loss of civilians, of innocents, of people during the terrorist attack in eastern Ukraine, during which Boing-777 was defeated. That's the kind of decision-making that's being prepared for your attention. And if you don't mind, I'll read this draft statement to our Parliament. On July 17, 2014, a Boeing 777 "Malaysian Airlines" passenger plane was hit in the area of Torres Donetské region of Ukraine, with some 300 passengers on board. According to the competent authorities of Ukraine, this terrorist act has been committed by militants who are fighting Ukraine in the Donetsk region using the Russian Federation's Bouk air defence complex, which was used by Russian military personnel. This barbaric act resulted in the death of all those on board the plane. It has become possible thanks to the support of fighters from the active leadership of the Russian Federation, to provide them with modern military technology and weapons, including missile complexes to attack air targets. Such actions and irresponsible policies of the Russian authorities against Ukraine actually provoke acts of international terrorism, killing not only citizens of Ukraine but also citizens of other nations. The illegal supply of arms by the Russian Federation to Ukraine's territory, the targeting of Russian mercenaries and military personnel of the Russian Federation Armed Forces to participate in hostilities against Ukraine, is an act of military aggression against Ukraine, which has all the characteristics of international terrorist activity, which includes organizations such as Alkaida and others. So-called self-proclaimed organizations of the DNR and the LNR came along the same path. The aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine has already become a threat to the lives and security of not only Ukrainian citizens but also foreign citizens and poses a real threat to world peace. The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its sincere sympathy for the families and close to all those who have died as a result of this terrorist act. Condemning the aggressive policy of the Russian authorities against Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to international and European organizations, leaders of the world with proposals: to take all necessary measures to investigate the circumstances of the tragedy; to establish and bring to justice those responsible for the commission of the terrorist act; to recognize self-declared organizations of the DNR and LNR as terrorist; to take joint action with Ukraine, including in the military and technical sphere, aimed at putting an end to the activities of terrorist groups that are taking military action against Ukraine and are a threat to peace and stability in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the inclusion of this project in the agenda of our session. I'd like you to vote with my respectable colleagues. Please vote. [[11:25:56]] For 232 Decision taken. Honorable colleagues can be found on the basis and generally without discussion? We can. Please support the draft Decree (4326a) on the statement of the Supreme Council on the tragic death of people as a result of a terrorist act in Ukraine – on the basis of it and in general. Please vote. [[11:26:27]] For 236 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 38, 27 – Economic Development, 35 – Freedom, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – For Peace and Stability, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 36. Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision to the international community, which, along with Ukraine, should put a stop to the international terrorism that is being organised today, is being funded by the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, we have yet another draft of the Order, which applies to respectable colleagues, the fight against international terrorism. I'd like to ask that we put it right now in the agenda and also make a decision. Because this is actually a continuation of this topic. This is a project (4321a) called "Resistance of Dissemination, supported by the Russian Federation of International Terrorism". National MP Kowalczuk is the author of this project. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of him in the agenda. [[11:27:43]] For 234 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let us give the floor to the national deputy of the blacksmith. I'm asking you to follow a reduced procedure. Support a simplified procedure for dealing with this matter. [[11:28:10]] For 214 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u97	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, it is clear that peace on Donbas will come only if the support of the Russian Federation of International Terrorism and the actions of terrorist groups cease. In fact, what we voted a few minutes ago is the beginning, actually, of a call to the international community on this issue. It is now proposed to develop this topic and to adopt the statement "Resistance of Dissemination, supported by the Russian Federation of International Terrorism". At the beginning of our session, there were some suggestions, some of them about the correctness of the formulations, so I will, with your permission, read the text that for the transcript then I will ask you to support as a whole. So, the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on countering the proliferation supported by the Russian Federation of International Terrorism. Ukraine faced one of the most complex and cruel forms of terrorism. Terrorism exported by the neighbouring state. Since the beginning of independence in 1991, Ukraine has provided its own example of demilitarizing the European continent by giving up nuclear weapons, deliberately reducing its armed forces. During the entire period since Ukraine’s restoration of independence, there has never been an act of aggression against its neighbors, and it has consistently pursued peaceful foreign policy. Ukraine viewed international law as a guarantee of its independence and territorial integrity, formed in the post - World War II period in the fight against aggressive Nazism. But it turns out that history’s mistakes are not widely accepted. Since February 2014, Ukraine has experienced aggression by a state that has guaranteed its independence and territorial integrity. The Russian Federation occupied two Ukrainian regions -- the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol -- and began actively destabilizing the situation in the southern and eastern regions of Ukraine. Not finding support for these actions among Ukrainian citizens in the East and South, the leadership of the Russian Federation moved to organizing a terrorist war against Ukraine. This war is characterized by total disregard for international law and respect for human life. Ukraine and the whole world have learned that for Russian-backed mercenaries, in order to kill civilians, torture, kidnap people for ransom or transfer to the Russian Federation and illegally retain them as was the case with Nadia Savchenko. Terrorists do not stop at mass killings of peaceful Ukrainian citizens, hunting people who speak Ukrainian, who belong to Jewish nationalities or Roma. On July 17, this year, Russian-sponsored terrorism crossed Ukraine’s borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u99	On July 17, this year, Russian-sponsored terrorism crossed Ukraine’s borders. The terrorists, supported by Russia, killed 298 foreign citizens who were on the plane of Malaysian Airlines. This crime stands in one row with the destruction of a civilian aircraft over Lockerbie, the attacks on September 11, 2001, and other crimes against humanity. If it is not timely to stop those who bear the ideology of hatred, these innocent victims may not be the last. Terrorists and dictators can't stop. Terrorists brutally violated the ceasefire proposed by the President of Ukraine, continued attacks on Ukrainian forces and civilians. The Ukrainian people, its Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Territorial Defence Forces, all the patriots of Ukraine who speak different languages, who go to different churches -- under a blue and yellow flag, they give a worthy reprisal of terrorist aggression. But the support of terrorists from the Russian Federation -- mercenaries, technology, and in the last days and the direct use of weapons by Russian troops against the Ukrainian military -- has led to a continuation of war and impedes the establishment of peace. This threatens the security and stability of the entire European continent and the world. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on all nations of the world to become the only front against the Russian Federation’s support for terrorism. The Supreme Council of Ukraine urges the parliaments and governments of the world to recognize the so - called Donetsk People’s Republic, the Luhansk People’s Republic, and other similar formations by terrorist organizations, to make efforts at both national and international levels. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the EU, the US and other nations that are building a world of peace, democracy, public values, to take urgent and effective measures of economic, political, diplomatic pressure on Russia as a state that threatens the security of modern Europe and the world with the aim of withdrawing Russian troops from Ukraine, ending the supply of arms to mercenaries by technology and other supplies. temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss supporting the project? We can. Please take your seats. Please invite the deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues. Please support, on the basis and overall, the Decision No. 4321a, on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the proliferation of the Russian Federation-backed international terrorism. Please, Your Honor, support this project as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:33:20]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, for your position on the principle. The factions, please. Parenthood – 77, Party of Regions – 0, Strike – 38, Economic Development – 24, 35 – Freedom, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – Peace and Stability, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 33. I'm asking the Secretariat staff to point out that we don't have Communists in the room, the Party of the Regions actually, and I'm asking you not to count this day, regardless of what they signed up for at the beginning of the morning session. Please, your honor, now, colleagues, attention. We need to put a lot of questions into the agenda. Some of them, I would like us to support them immediately during the consideration. I'm going to give you a chance to discuss this right now. I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues, if we worked very hard and efficiently, including, I'd like to include all the issues that are being asked by factions to put into the order of the day, we can only vote by batch. Colleagues, look. This would be effective, and we would consider many of the questions in this list. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of our session, the bills I call their registration numbers: 4710, 4247th, 4284th, 4280th, 4255th, 4184th, 4269th, 4321th, 4179th, 4300th, 4030th, 4283rd, 4980, 4263rd, 4679, 4712, 4235th, 4888th, 4172th, 4921, 4720, 4313th, 4314th, 4173rd, 4690, 4109th, 4132, 4310th, 4311th, 4312th, 4307th, 4208th, 4208th-a-1, 4208th, 4208th-a-2th. In particular, honourable colleagues, MPs passed alternative laws, I call them 4295-a, 4295-a-1, this is a project to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code on Social and Economic Protection of Ukrainian Citizens in an area where anti-terrorist operations are carried out. This is Project 4688, draft release order, so that's another question, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance and Social Insurance, on Social and Economic Protection of Ukrainian Citizens in the Area of Anti-Terrorism Operation, is 4296a and 4296a-1, as well as Act 4728 on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Expansion of Access to Information on Real Property Rights in the Purpose of Preventing Corruption and Protecting Property Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u101	On the commission of inquiry, they've already been drawn up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u102	Followed by a commission. Dear colleagues, I put them on Wednesday to include them and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u103	4297th is about the Nakrad, too. I put it on Thursday, so you suggest we put it in the agenda now. I got it. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u104	Fatherland, Sobolev. Dear colleagues, there's Bill 4100, Lucenko Irina, which concerns the order of mobilization, and Bill 4217, which deals with the order of ratification of our decisions. This has to do with the signing of the European Agreement and all others. These two are asked to add points.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u105	I mean, to this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u107	I understand the offer. Please, National Deputy Suhi, National Deputy Rudzkowski. I'll give it to you now so we can make our decision. Let's go, Your Honor, by pack, or we'll just put it in the agenda all day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Thank you. To Bill Yuri Orotyuk 4710. I ask you to put it in order of day; it was, for some reason, a bill of 4670 is a bill of Zabolotny, Dombrowski, which deals with guarantees for employees to perform duties in connection with the mobilization of local self-government and civil servants. We've missed this category, and it turns out to be people who aren't socially protected. So I'm asking you to add 4670. The committee, the conclusion is, we're ready to present it on Thursday for the second reading in the room, 4670.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u109	Okay. I heard, 4670. Yes, Your Honorable Fellow Members, please, the national deputy of Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u110	Alexander Valentine's Day, we've repeatedly discussed on the Conciliation Council that we can't put bills in the agenda by one vote, by all the noise. We ask you very much to put all the bills in order. The time of revolutionary desirability has passed. Let's look carefully at every bill. Today we asked about when we voted for partial mobilization, let's invite the Defense Minister, let's invite the ATO leader. Two days of playing the part. But we'd get answers. We're in a hurry, and we're going somewhere. It's okay. We'll take all the bills one by one. Why are we running the Conciliation Council, why are we gathering factions and discussing every bill if we're going to vote with one packet?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! Guys, I'm sorry. Well, I'll remind you that we're talking about inclusion in the agenda. We're going to have this format when we're going to put everything somewhere in the agenda, and we're not going to have to look at the laws of time, you know? Well, then we'll just spend our time ineffectively. And the people are waiting not only for discussion, but also for decision-making, you know? Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u112	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I also propose to include 4073a for state aid to victims in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation. Also, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, I address you as Head of the Supreme Council. Alexander Valentinovich, there was an offer by several national deputies to create an investigation commission on a crashed plane. And they're trying to make the Ukrainian Aerolouch guilty. So I want to pay attention to our entire society. Yes, indeed, Aerolouch is responsible for the safety of the movement. But in Aerolouch, there was all this information that in the Donetsk region, there are no means of impressions that can be struck by planes above 6,000 meters. And that's why we shouldn't have closed the space over the Donetsk region. And you don't have to make Aeroruh guilty. And if the Russian Federation puts the same "Bukes" in Prinstroway or else they're going to crash, who's going to answer? The inhabitants of this area or the one who sets up?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u114	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich and distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian national deputies! We discussed at our faction leaders' meetings earlier on both the Conciliation Councils, and at our meetings, that this week we should definitely consider removing the parliamentary integrity of those traitors, the rogue deputies, who allow the media during public speaking to corrupt the Ukrainian state, and that is particularly painful at the time that Ukraine is now present. I would like to remind you that there has already been a case before the Attorney General's Office, but it is now necessary to resubmit such a motion so that the regulatory committee can do so, and the Parliament has adopted a positive decision on the removal of the parliamentary immunity of Olinik and other dictatorial law-makers on January 16th. Similarly, I would like to remind you that last time I gave a detailed quote to the deputies of Bryck, Dach, and Miriamski. These are Crimea deputies who publicly expressed support for the Russian annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the actions of Russian aggressors on Donbassa. Such people have no right to wear parliamentary badges and have an honorable high status as Ukrainian national deputy. We also believe that the Attorney General's Office should verify the involvement of Russian invaders in personally supporting all deputies from the Communist Party faction and the Party of the Regions, starting with their leaders Simonenko and Ephraim. Like what? Last week there was information about an arsenal of weapons found in Kilinkarov somewhere in the cottage. We also require the Ministry of Justice, as it did in March and early April, not only to bring a ban on the Communist Party to trial, but also to ban the anti-Ukrainian forces that have shown their involvement in anti-Ukrainian activities and the support of the occupying party (this is the Party of Regions, the Ukrainian Choice, the PSP) as organizations that actively support separatists and terrorists. Thank you. Please put this in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I would ask that we proceed to the vote. Please, National Deputy Lazko, Yavorowski, and we will make a decision. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Please support and include in the agenda an additional bill 4752 is the imposition of sanctions on persons involved in terrorism in Donbassa, on those who crashed the Malaysian Airlines passenger plane, and on the 4293a bill on improving the organization and legal basis of the fight and in the area of anti-terrorist operation. Please be supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u117	Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u118	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, I would like to address my colleague Jeremiah. I'm a proponent of always following our Rules. But this is his call for haste that there is nowhere to go. Well, mate, look what's going on in the country, and we, this hastiness has led us to a lot of mistakes. And now it's very specific. I have implemented a draft decree on a simplified transfer of arms to the Ukrainian population. We have over 4 million of these weapons on our hands, and many people would like to hand them over to our army. But this requires a mechanism. I'd like that 4092a, Alexander Valentine's Day, too. I am convinced that we have to vote in one package because these are all very important laws that solve the enormous problems of today's war situation in Ukraine. I'm sure we should vote together with a pack. And please include this 4092a draft ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u119	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, we've discussed enough questions. By the end of this session, we had already proposed to include so many laws in the order of the day that by the end of this session we would hardly even be able to put them into consideration, not to mention what to consider, to discuss. But this is the right of national deputies. I also have a request for the "North European Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, Igor Mironovich, this is a huge request, when we go now to consider each issue of inclusion, we will spend the whole day only on inclusion. There's a lot of, you see, proposals from the people's deputies. There are requests, your honorary colleagues, that we now mobilize, as our positive part of the Supreme Council has done, and have made a decision to include all the proposals that I have made, which have spoken to the national MPs who have spoken in the order of the day session, I emphasize, into the order of the day session. And then we'll be able to look at some of them by the end of this session. I'd like to support this proposal so that we can save time to make decisions, not just to run laws around. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please, National Deputy Kowalczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! Vitaly Kowalczuk, Faction of Vitaly Klicka. We also stress what we consider appropriate for each bill to be considered separately on inclusion in the agenda. Because yesterday we agreed to the Conciliation Council on the grounds that we either include only those bills that find general support in the Council, or we don't include them in the agenda. As far as I can tell, there are some warnings about certain bills. So either we're going to vote in favour of every bill, or I'm going to propose, Alexander Valentine's Day, we're going to announce a break, we're going to invite the factions' heads and we're going to decide on a day-to-day basis that there's no objection to the inclusion of these issues in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! I want to say again, I'm just sorry that we have this time together that we can use effectively, and now we're going to be discussing every law, because we're going to have a break in 10 minutes. And if there's a law enforcement faction, I'd suggest yes, dear colleagues, it's a shame about time. There's a denial in impact under some law-- raise your hand and I'll delete those laws. In another faction there is, in "North European Ukraine," a denial by law -- raise your hand and I will remove these laws. Other factions. So let's go and, so we'll save time together. Is it supported? Supported. Please, Vitaly Anatolyovich, do you have a legal objection? Please give me a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u122	4710.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u123	4710. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u124	4255a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u125	4255a. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u126	4184a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u127	84a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u128	4980.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u129	4970.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u130	4980.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u131	80, 4980.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u132	4172a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u133	4172a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u134	4921. 4173a. 4132.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u135	Please enable the completion of the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u136	I'm sorry. 4710 for me. 4710, I called it first, we're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u137	4710 for inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u138	Yes, for inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I am the only one who understands the indignation of some deputies, but without the support of the faction, we will not be able to accept these proposals in the order of the day. So it's objective. Please, Igor Mironovich, do you have any removals of this package?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u140	Alexander Valentinovich, we have a comment under Law 4980, 4712. But I have the right to comment. I'd like to go back to the first question that we've been looking at today, a partial mobilization. Partial mobilization to the army is an important question, we could have spent both the south and the whole day on it. We mobilize people, not butterflies in the field, we mobilize people for war. And before making such a decision, we should receive answers to all the questions that have arisen during the last four months in the state when we lead (?) It's a war. Therefore, we insist that every step should be taken with due consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u141	Thank you. I support the importance of taking every step. Anatoly Kirilovich, does the faction deny it? I give crane my word. Please, what are the objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the Economic Development Group will not support such bills 4308, 4309, 4247a, 4712.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u143	Take your time. 42?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u144	4247a, 4712, 4888, 4728, 4296a and 4296a-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u145	Yes, we don't have much left, dear colleagues. There's not much left, dear fellows, at such an approach. Do you understand? Colleagues, I'm sorry. Is there an deletion yet? Hit 4032a is still removing. National MP Philippeenko, please and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u146	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to add to the list 4317a as well. This bill has already been discussed with some groups, it concerns ensuring the rights of individual categories of persons to join the paramilitary territorial units of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you. I'm asking him to put it in the agenda, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u147	I see. Dear colleagues, the next offer, friends, come on, I'm asking you to put your hands down, because we're getting confused. Now I'm putting to the vote the proposal to put in order of the day, honourable colleagues, all because we're getting completely confused. Delete?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u148	Colleagues, let's make a decision first, and then I'll give you my word, we'll separately vote on this law. Sit down, I'll give you my word, I'll give you a chance to speak. Dear colleagues, once again, if there is no confusion, I put to the vote proposals that were in order of the day. I also call those proposals that were made by the factions except for the Bills: 4032a, 4255a, 4184a, 4980a, 4172a, 4921, 4173a, 4132, 4980, 4712, 4309, 4308, 4247a, 4712, 4888, 4728.4296a, 4296a-1. Dear colleagues, as far as I'm concerned, I know that I've been approached by Deputy Turmanov, and I'll give them an opportunity to argue that we'll be included in the agenda of the day after the vote of the law. Please sit down and I'll give you my word. Have a seat. Sit down now and we'll vote. I'll give you a chance we'll break the vote now. I'll give you an opportunity under your law to argue. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, of course, I'll give you my word. Please sit down and we will now vote. Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Yes. Do you understand the offer? Vote, Your Honor, regarding the inclusion in the agenda of the appropriate proposal. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:54:29]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. It's very difficult. Please, the people's deputy Turmanov is arguing about the law that asked the faction to be removed from impact, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I approached Igor Ereemov and asked about the exclusion (4980) of the draft Act with regard to the change in the budget for 2014. But once again, I'm stressing that these costs are within the budget, and we've got miners who build mine 10 on Wallinska, Bajanova after the accident. They work today, they don't get paid. That is why we take 180 million from one article of domination and transfer to the capital building within the budget approved by the Supreme Council. And I don't understand why this law is being blocked. We leave two thousand miners with no wages and no workload. Could I have your back, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this is about the Law (4980), right? (4980) – he was asked by the faction "Supreme European Ukraine" to remove. Can we put it to a vote? We can put it to a vote. Please support the inclusion of a day-to-day project (4980). Please vote, Your Honor, for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:56:12]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, friends, can we work in order of the day? Let's take the risk, because we're endlessly going to turn it on, rule it out, and we're not going to go into our question. Dear colleagues! Please, the microphone of Cosmiakina Andriy Anatoliyovich. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u151	Alexander Valentinovich, there's one group that's part of the coalition, she may have misread something. 4247a: Law on ensuring the secure detention of persons involved. Remember, at one time in the beginning. Now, Hennaday Hennadiovich, now! In the early 1990s, there was such a rule in the law to fight crime. And just like today, you know, when they're holding back those terrorists that have become many, they're better shot than done according to the KPC. So this law allows you to keep 30 days in the ATO zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I think this is an important question. I'm asking you to support 4247a. This is only about the area of anti-terrorist operations, not about the spread of this practice throughout the territory. Because, in fact, there are sometimes no possibilities to investigate, and dangerous terrorists, according to law, are released by some courts. Therefore, honourable colleagues, request to support the inclusion of the day project 4247a. Please, Your Honor, back up. Please vote. [[11:58:03]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 68 - "Fatherhood", "Regions" - 0.34 - Impact", 7 - "Economic Development", 35 - "Freedom, "Sovereign European Ukraine" - 28, "For Peace and Destabilization" - 0, the Company - 0, non-fractional - 31. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Now, I understand we're going to take a break. And it will be very difficult for many deputies to work after the break. We have breaks that have a very negative impact on the efficiency of our work, our respectable colleagues. That's why respectable colleagues are an important issue that we've included in the agenda, it's about deseparation. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you two questions: deseparatization and changes to the Communist faction regulations. Can we do this for a break? Let's mobilize. It's a number. Dear colleagues! 4,300 is a proposal on the basis that if we accepted it, it would be deseparation. I'll remind you what this is about. The point is that those taking part in separatist action are denied the right to take office. And other positions about, let's say, working in government. So that we don't have that after we complete the anti-terror operation, those who started separatism, who took part in the separatists, would then form the local authorities. That's what this is about. Dear colleagues, can we base our support? We can, we can. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support me as a basis. Dear colleagues, because under the CPR, we have a duty to make a decision today. Please, Your Honor, 4300a is a draft of the Act on Resisting Sepatarism and Overcoming the Consequences of Separatist Activities in Ukraine. Please support me as a base. Please, dear fellows. We're mobilizing, guys, come on, it's an important question. [[12:00:42.]] For 228 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Right away, without losing. Let's do it in a nutshell. Yes or no? Let's have a brief procedure, please support the consideration of this issue, the preparation of this issue. Please. Expensive, expensive enough. [[12:01:09]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! We might still be back, but I'm asking you right now, now, let's mobilize. Now, everyone in the room needs to vote now, so let's show the whole community how much we're doing in principle. It's a technical issue, changes to the Rules. This is the 4208th, 4208th, 4208th, 4208th, 2nd, when we vote on these issues, we can go with dignity to rest for half an hour, half an hour. Colleagues are involved in draft laws that were passed by the national deputies of Tajnibok, Kaplin, Drevijanko, and Kirilenko. The point is, your honor, is that we have an unfair technical flaw in the Rules. When the MP group decreases less than the minimum number of factions, it dissolves and the word "factions" is released. Do you understand? And it turns out there could be at least one person in the faction, it's still a faction. So that makes sense and that's not right. That is why colleagues worked with the Regulatory Committee, asking them to support Anatoly Kirilenko’s bill, pardon Vijacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. It contains another norm, respected colleagues, except for this norm supported by the deputies of the Tsagnibok, Drevijanko, Kaplin, he has another important norm, which is that when elections took place, we also have a mistake, and it is written that MPs cannot, who are not chosen from the faction list, cannot be members of the faction. There is one technical problem when a national MP, a member of a party, fought in a major district, but his party has not passed the barrier, there is such a problem, and we may have this deputy deprived of the right to join another political force. The proposal to correct this error and the MP who fought in the Majority District, but his party did not pass, has the right not only to join the MP group, but also any faction not to limit his rights. These are two revisions, these two national MPs. No, it's the right thing to do, believe me. We had a lot of questions when MPs passed from parties that didn't go to parliament, and we limit their right to join another faction, that's not right. This is a restriction on their constitutional rights. Dear colleagues, this is why the Regulatory Committee is asking and the secretariat is asking for support. His registration number, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, tell us the number. Turn on Kyrilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u153	This is Bill No. 4307a, which amends articles 58 and 60 of the Rules, the essence of which has just been laid down by the Head of the Supreme Council of Turkey. But the main point is the right of the Head of the Supreme Council not only to dissolve groups but also factions if the number is smaller than that established by the Rules. This is the situation that has now arisen with the faction of communists, and so after the vote of this project, the Supreme Council will be given the opportunity to announce the disbanded faction of Communists. Please support without discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support -- 4307th on the basis and in general. Let's mobilize, dear colleagues. This is everyone in the room, because there's a limited number of people in the room. Don't take out the card, dear fellows. It is our responsibility to make such a decision. Here's another voice. Please. It's a very important question, just without you, we may not vote it out. Please, Your Honor, please support 4307a as a whole. Please vote. [[12:05:34]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 74, Regions – 0, Hit 37, Economic Development – 6, (others!?), Freedom – 35, Sovereign European Ukraine – 22.0 – Stability, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 23. Dear colleagues, Anatoly Kirilovich, can we still mobilize the faction? Let's do it again, please. I ask you to return to this question, colleagues. Please be supportive. There must be justice in Ukraine. All in equal conditions must be political forces. Especially those who work against their own country should not have any additional dividends. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to this vote. Let's all mobilize. We're mobilizing, dear colleagues. Please come back to this question, we don't wait. [[12:06:37]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u155	Alexandre Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs of Ukraine! Well, look how good it went. The commies are out of here, the regions are in the same way. Let's mobilize and vote, people good! Well, that's a historic decision we're actually making. Well, if I haven't done it, there's no editing and no drafting of Kirilenka's ruling, although as the author of another draft of the ruling, I completely agree with this Kirilenka project, let's put in another draft of the ruling. For example, there may be some objections to individual deputies not to vote. But, good people, this is our sacred work. This is the responsibility of this Parliament. We have to go to the polls clearly after we have eliminated this Communist faction, along with their party, and then we will vote in favour of our bill banning Communist ideology and just like banning Nazi ideology. And let us do what all European civilised countries do! And then to the future, the light is on! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! I'm just asking, I'm looking at a monitor that we have a number of deputies going down, and it has to go up. Colleagues, come on, I'll let you perform. I'm asking the faction leaders to mobilize your members. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin. Then I'll give the author a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! I'd like to address you with an extraordinary request. Our calling of our Parliament has a great deal of sins before the Ukrainian people. It's a personal, not a personal vote, it's a hand vote and a lot of other things. I'm talking about the so-called negative part of the Supreme Council. Today, there is a unique opportunity, a unique opportunity, to get rid of part of these sins. Now millions of Ukrainians are watching "The Council," and they are literally praying that we, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no longer have a faction of Communists who were the corrupt centre of Yanukovic. Please, I beg you, take this important historic decision for this Council, for Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and for our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u158	Please, National Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u159	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. I support the authors of all the bills on this subject because they are all just bills. Dear colleagues, on the contrary, I would suggest that we take a closer look at the matter. Society is now providing answers to all political sentiments and antipathies. For the first time since the Company's completely illegal recovery in 1992 (it has been banned in its own time), after initiating a coup, a coup d'état, a coup d'état, but the truths and lies have been restored. They had factions all the time. And only now, after the victory of the people in Kiev and all over Ukraine, when the war broke out, did the deputies begin to flee from them. And for the first time in these years, the authorities will be in court to deal with their activities on the subject of separatism. Not even ideology, but separatism and calls for territorial integrity to be violated. And at that time, the Head of the Supreme Council has no interest in finalizing this situation when they no longer have a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u160	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u161	The head of the Supreme Council cannot dissolve the faction under the Rules when there is no fact of this faction. All of them ran away, and people in the country turned away from them. Therefore, we are now simply obliged to fill out this formality and allow the Head of Parliament here simply to set the order. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I am addressing each and every one of you. We have enough people in this room to make a decision. Well, let's remember famine, other crimes. Well, aren't we going to vote on that now? This is fair to all Ukrainian citizens and to future generations. Please, Your Honor, let's work together, let's support it. Please return to this question. Please vote back on this matter. [[12:11:27]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I think we'll take a break. The factions, please. Colleagues, what do you say again? Please 76 is "Paternity", 0 is "Party of Regions", 38 is "BACK" and 22 is "Economic Development". It's okay. 35 – "Freedom", 19 – "North European Ukraine", 0 – "For Peace and Stability", Communists – 0, non-fractional – 30. Please, one last time? [[B in m in s a l in]] Last time, it's gonna be a hall. Please, Easy Oleg and Peacemaker, and we vote. Let's not break up!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u163	Dear fellow MPs! Vitaly! Vitaly Homutinnik is the leader of the leading faction of Economic Development! Honourable Igor Jeremeyev is the leader of the "North European Ukraine" faction! I'm not talking to the heads of the Strike Party, Freedoms, Fatherland, there's everyone voting unanimously. Cossacks, boys, historical, don't laugh, the historic decision that Parliament can make today depends on your votes. I ask you to support, vote and finally end this disease once and for all in our country! Please, through the cross, God, vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u164	The People’s Deputy Peace and Jeremiah, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u165	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I don't think we should push each other here and convince each other. We just have to look at what we saw, we just have a few people who haven't been able to report. But we have to make a clear decision that after a successful vote, we have to announce a break, because we will virtually no longer have that chance! That's what we need to know! That's what we have to say! And tell society, because there will definitely be elections! The election will definitely be in the fall. And so today's work, because it's our job to take responsibility for those bills that are being put into the agenda, we either have the right to represent Ukrainians in Parliament, or those who are not ready to support the demands of society have to go away. So please, those who have not voted, voted, and moved on. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy Jeremiah one minute and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u167	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! All the deputies of the "North European Ukraine" faction who are present in the hall, in full vote for this bill, we also support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we put this to a vote? We can. Dear colleagues, 4307a. Please return to your consideration of this matter. Please, Your Honor, vote together, responsibly. Please. [[12:14:49]] For 236 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Please support as a whole. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote 4307a. [[12:15:14]] For 232 Decision taken. [[Applause]] This is an honest and just decision that our Parliament has made. And today I'm going to send this project to the President, and I'm going to ask him to sign it immediately, and then I'm going to announce the disbandment of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Thank you, colleagues! A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 12 hours 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I have such a feeling that the buffet is an enemy of Ukrainian parliamentaryism that it should be eliminated immediately in the Supreme Council. Please make an announcement that half an hour has passed and the Supreme Council should begin its work. We have many questions from which we must make very serious responsible decisions. But I can see that the people are not in a hurry to enter the hall. Please make three loud announcements, first of all in the buffet. I'll read the ad. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group "Economic development" of 22 July 2014, I report the election of the co-chair of the parliamentary group "Economic development" of the national deputy, Homutinnik Vitali Juriovich, and the deputy head of the parliamentary group "Economic development" of Žuravska Vitalija Stanislavovic. The number of leaderships, you see, is increasing in factions. Secure the application, I'll call it in. I'm talking to the leaders of MP groups and factions. Please provide discipline in your groups and factions, because the Supreme Council cannot work just the first part of the morning session. I'll remind you that we work all day and work intensively and effectively. I don't see Puckan Valery Vasilovich. Yes. Please, Your Honor, report to the hearing, we continue our work, the Parliament continues its work. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and Documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship testifies to a person or his or her special status regarding the digitized fingerprints. Let me remind you, we're now looking at a block of questions on the second reading. Please report to the head of the Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities and International Relations of Paccan Valeriy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u170	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Good afternoon, dear fellows! We are now considering in the second reading of Law 4991: "On the one national demographic register and documents that confirm Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his or her special status." What are we talking about? We've been looking at you, and there's been a lot of amendments made by the people's deputies. The committee considered all the amendments, adopted and decided to support the bill on a basis and in general. All amendments tabled by the People’s Deputies are supported. I'm going to remind everyone again what this was about. This is about the fingerprints of our citizens who get a visa and cross the border in order to get us to the only fingerprint base, that's including resistance to separatism, terrorism at the international level. Our people's deputies have been amended. And we've included the rules of the law as "according to the consent of the person." I want to remind everyone that all national MPs or the vast majority of you who have gone abroad have already given their fingerprints in order to obtain a visa, say, to the United States or to Britain, and that is nothing illegal. Please support all of you on the basis and in general as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, there are questions about the amendments that the Committee has considered regarding the rejection of particularly amendments. I won't. Yes. Oleg Pankevitch National MP, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u172	Mr. Valérie, head of the committee, I would like to make it clear that I had an amendment, which was actually about the consent of the person. How is this procedure regulated now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u173	I'll read it clearly: "to make digitized fingerprints and documents to go abroad solely with the consent of the person."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u174	A decision has been made with the consent of the person. That's the amendment that was proposed. Any more questions, Your Honor, about the amendments? Thank you, committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u175	Alexander Valentinovich, but the question is too important, refers to the second phase of regulation of Ukraine's visa-free regime. We don't have a national MPs in the session room right now. I would very much like us not to fail this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u176	The offer is understood. Is there a question or a wish to comment to the Cabinet? I understand it's our migration service. Please, is there a note to the law? Minfin. Put the microphone in the government box.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u177	There are no comments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I am now looking into the session room and I have great doubts about the ability to make decisions. Regrettably, the discipline of the people’s deputies remains low. We worked with you effectively for the first part of the morning session. And on the other hand, I see that the MPs lack strength. It's a disgraceful practice when we can't work all day. We're just making a shard, and then there's no way to work it out. I repeat to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions about the organization of the work of your national deputies. I also refer to non-fractional ones on this issue. Dear colleagues, in order for us not to fail this question, is a proposal by a committee of profile that we now consider the issue of second reading, and a decision has been taken on the readiness of the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Then the solution to this question -- let me remind you, it's 4991 -- we're going to make a decision on the readiness of the Supreme Council. Now we're going to take a look at the question. There is no reference to this law. Next question: 2403: Draft Law on Amendments to Article 230 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (for the control of the circulation of alcohol and liquor products). The head of the Committee of the Homutinic must report. Is it likely that he is conducting a banquet in connection with the faction’s co - head selection? I'm taking that question off the table. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee should be held at the appropriate time. The next question is also to report to the Homutinnik: the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code. Instead of him, Oksana Sold, are you ready to report? Please provide a second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of clarifying corporate tax liabilities and value added taxes when applying tax compromises. Please, Oksana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u179	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! This bill, which we are currently considering, refers to those enterprises that were forced to work under the previous regime through the schemes defined by the authority of the mechanisms, in order to survive, in order to work at all. In the first reading, the bill was voted. And after that, 107 amendments were made by the deputies. Of these 107 amendments, 66 amendments are taken into account by the Committee. We should say that the committee held several working groups with experts, with business, with all the interested people. And what we're doing with this bill: as requested by the business, as stressed by the MPs on the first reading, we're amending not only the Tax Code -- we're amending the Criminal Code, and we're amending the Code on Administrative Violations, so that the business that now declares its previous income is not responsible for the previous violation of the previous regime. We determine the rate of 10 percent if the business itself has declared that it has not paid either the value added tax or the income tax in the last 3 years. We're increasing the possibility of using this mechanism of tax compromise from 60 to 90 days in terms of what was in the first reading. Similarly, it is suggested that this bill be introduced regarding all operations that took place before April 1, 2014. And that's what's very important. This tax compromise can be applied if it is accepted by you now, not only in relation to, in fact, the tax evasions currently declared by the business in the past, in the past, in payment of taxes, but it can also be applied if there is a court hearing today between tax and tax payer, if there is an administrative complaint. This project, if a business statement makes such a wish, will apply to all payments on which there are disputes. In fact, this bill is now needed by all those who have had to pay more in private family pockets before than in the government budget and those who want to continue to work in white. So I very much ask all my colleagues to support this bill and vote it in the second reading and in general, to support the committee's decision. The committee recommends that this project be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u180	Oksana Petrovna, let's talk about the rights that national MPs insist on. I can see a few hands. Please, People's Deputy Rosenco, and Pinzenik, I'm sorry. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u181	Dear head, dear fellows! I'm asking for confirmation of Amendment 6. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u182	Yeah, I get the offer. Dear colleagues! A proposal has been made to confirm Amendment 6 now. Will the comments be from the committee on this subject? No comments. Yes, the author of the amendment, Philippeenko. Please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. This amendment was made to me for the sole purpose of not having intermediaries earning VAT. And in order for citizens who grow products to get better prices for the products they receive. If anyone wants this amendment to fail right now, because there are no votes in the room, we haven't even considered the previous law. I realize that it wasn't 226, if this amendment is deliberately failed, I don't know if our group will be able to vote in favour of this law as a whole, because some people keep the regime in which there are actually tax pits, we're against it. And we ask you very much to consider our position, to take into account the decision of the committee that supported this amendment, and I ask you to follow the decision of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u184	Please, National Deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u185	Dear colleagues. Amendment 6 is totally corrupt because it actually means that all exports will be monopolized through the Ukrainian Agrarian Fund, that's all. And there's no social or economic basis for that. Among other things, it has been introduced contrary to 116 articles of the Supreme Council Rules, since this law does not apply at all to the issue of taxation of agricultural VAT. Therefore, it could not be considered at all on the committee. I do not know how it came to be, although I was on a committee meeting on the subject of this law. So let's put it on confirmation and not confirm this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u186	People's MP Pinzenik. Just give me one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues. I didn't want to talk essentially about the bill because I thought we were going to vote, but really, what does this bill entail? This edit assumes that the application mode is applicable. VAT on export shall be granted only to the agrarian fund. That means, all of your agrarian friends, put the product in the agrarian fund, we'll give you conditions, and then we officials will determine at what price to export. So I agree with the conclusion that the previous colleague said to Sergey Teryohin, we should vote in favour, put it to a more faithful vote and fail this amendment. What's more, I want to emphasize what the VAT has to do with grain, with the tax compromise law. Why did this amendment come about here in the first place? So, Your Honor, put it to the vote, and my colleague, I ask you to fail this amendment, not confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u188	Dear colleagues. I think we've discussed this enough. With the insistence of the national MPs, I am asking for confirmation of Amendment 6 to this Act. The Supreme Council would like to decide whether or not to support this amendment. Please vote. [[13:04:02]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Not much. Yes. Next amendment. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u189	I'm surprised that this law is directed to us by tax estimates for 2,000 enterprises. Once again, big businesses -- we create normal conditions, restructuring, cheating, amnesty. The 11th amendment I wrote that this tax compromise is also applied to tax payers of micro, small, and medium - size businesses. By writing down fines and debts and pennies. But somehow the committee called it off and rejected the amendment, and again left it only for the big and medium-sized business. I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u190	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u191	If you don't mind. In fact, the whole bill applies to all kinds of business. And a small business, and a big business can apply this to two taxes -- income tax and value added tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel insists that her amendment, which was rejected by the committee, is number 11. Please, Your Honor, decide to support this amendment. Please vote. [[13:05:34]] For-123 The decision is not taken. Please, are there any other amendments that national MPs insist on? National deputy Jeremeyev, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u193	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We understand very well with you that the law that we are voting today is a law that should compromise taxes on those tax havens, illegal tax havens that worked under the criminal regime. And today we insist that everyone was paying taxes at the time. The fact that these taxes were still going to the site, it's not an enterprise problem, it's a problem of the then authorities. And you can't compromise more than 10 percent today. Our faction insisted that we be willing to vote in favour of this law in case of a tax compromise of 5 percent, if it goes into effect of 01.03. – when events took place and a new coalition was created. And otherwise, if no tax compromise was found, the tax can't count a penny and a fine. Because it will then be a blackmail of entrepreneurs. If these amendments are taken into account, our faction will vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u194	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u195	With regard to preventing the taxpayer from checking in cases where no tax compromise has been declared, if it has not been found, there is a bill. That is, if no tax compromise is found, no new tax mechanisms appear. As for the beginning of the law by March 1, as you said, it will actually work from April 1. We give another month while the power was changing. As for the 5 percent rate, there is no 5 percent amendment to this group's desire for the project, there is no amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u196	Please, National Deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! We had a committee discussion about the concept of this law in general. The point is, I remind you that he's dedicated to those companies that were violently thrown into the eyes of those sites by that authority. They paid bribes, had to pay bribes to Minzdho and so on. Now they are asked to forgive what was happening there again, but for this forgiveness, bring another, well, in fact, 3 years by 10 percent! Well, imagine! So if you don't have 100 percent or 99 percent forgiveness, and you have to pay for that 10 percent each year, and no one's going to use that law, no one needs it. They're just gonna give another bribe to a new taxpayer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u198	Please comment, and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, this bill really needs all the sectors that have worked in the past. There are only two areas that have been advocated for a lower rate. They're etysers and they're importers of household technology. All the other areas are waiting for this project. And if we don't support it now, then we're really going to run everyone in a bribe that they're still going to give to the testers and they're going to hang on to the hooks in the same test subjects. So I ask everyone to vote that business should legalize its work over the last three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u200	Thank you. Please, national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u201	Your Honor, it's all right. But consider the fact that we're fighting, that we've lost Crimea, that we don't have a region, a few areas of Eastern Ukraine. Today's GDP decline, today unemployment is rising, today companies have no working capital because foreign banks don't finance businesses in Ukraine because they're fighting. And you still insist on paying 10 percent. It's not a compromise. It's to put private businesses that today create jobs on their knees.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u202	Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u203	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Regrettably, the second reading of Parliament introduced standards that transform the law into a way to avoid paying taxes. Unlike the government’s first reading, the possibility of applying tax compromise is expanded. The government offered to apply it on January 1st of the year. Sadly, the committee was asked to extend it to the first quarter. It was already a new power, a changed authority, and continued to decimate through the tax pits. We have no right to support tax evasion in the first quarter. And these are 7 revisions, 15 revisions, 84 revisions. Our faction insists that there be renewed rules of law that the government made regarding the date of January 1 rather than the extension of the possibility of not paying taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u204	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, and then Minfin's comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u205	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, we have the practice of the Rules approved, if any of the Committee's laws are being applied and there is insistence, this right shall be voted in the Chamber and only then shall it be incorporated into the law. So I urge that the above-mentioned revision by Victor Pinzenik of 7th, 15th and 84th be voted in the hall and be confirmed in order to include it in the law. And I'm sure it won't be in the hall for the majority, Reverend Alexander Valentine's Day. It's about what. That now, again, we've deliberately saved our profits to those businessmen who have compromised their consciences, to break the law, to relieve them of their taxes. Let them pay their taxes and sleep in peace!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u206	The offer is understandable. Dear colleagues, let's hear from Minfin. Put the microphone in the government box.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u207	Ministry of Finance. Regarding the 7th and the 15th, and the 84th amendments don't just change the date from 1 January to 1 March. We suggested that the date should remain January 1st. The one that was in the previous edition. The other thing that we're supposed to do in these papers is we're good at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u208	I see. Dear colleagues, we can be determined. Please take your seats. Colleagues, when we sit down, we may have opportunities to make responsible decisions. I will remind you that there is a reference to this law. But the non - acceptance of this law generally puts many businesses in very difficult conditions. The only thing was the insistence and the Ministry of Finance, and the speakers, to set the date when it comes in, regulates this law on January 1st, I understand? January 1st of the year. Colleagues. Five percent in Minfin are asked by MPs. Comment, please, 5 percent. It's a proposal from a group called Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u209	We don't support a 5 percent cut.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, there's just no chance of accepting it here, I understand, because there are groups that won't vote in case the rate doesn't go down. Anyway, I'll put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, pay attention. Please take your seats. Mikola Mikolaiovich, take your seat, please. Please, Your Honor, with the amendments that have been rejected, and also with the position that the law regulates the events that took place on 1 January of this year, please adopt this law, I recall, registration number 4930, as a whole. The Act amending the Code of Taxation on the Specificity of Acclarating Tax Obligations for the Income of Enterprises and Taxes on Added Costs in the case of the Use of Tax Compromise. Please turn on the microphone before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u211	The Ministry of Finance still notes 96 amendments that do not apply to this bill. The amendment proposes that taxes should not be paid for today’s business, including in the ATO zone. If they do not pay, they will automatically cheat. We cannot support such an amendment, we have many operators who pay for today’s tax day by conducting activities there. This suggests that they will not actually pay the tax and that the entire debt will automatically be paid off. This did not apply to this bill and was not discussed in the first reading. We're asking you to delete 96 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u212	So I'm going to translate into the language of the Rules: the Cabinet of Ministers is asking for 96 amendments to confirm. Colleagues, 96 repairs? Minfin, 96 amendment, I ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u213	96th part of the debt write-off in the ATO area.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, we don't have a chance to put in. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u215	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, we now see that this bill, which has been prepared for several months with the government, along with the Ministry of Finance, the relevant services, we see that this bill will not find the required number of votes. So I don't see the point of even looking at 96 separately or any other amendments. Although all these issues were agreed with the Ministry of Finance. The fact that they slept or didn't see something should help Mr. Fudashkin work with the committee. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm going to ask you to take it off the table right now, because one of the factions is definitely not going to vote and there aren't many people in the room. Let's move on to Thursday and take a responsible approach to this bill, because it's really needed by the state today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u216	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal to consider this law when the readiness of the hall is found and when a compromise between the deputies and the ministry is found on the percentages paid in the event of a compromise. Is that what I'm saying? No objections? There's no objection. We will then consider this matter for decision on the readiness of the Supreme Council. Next question. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of State Control (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity on the Limitation of Intervention of Operators. Cugella Alexander Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this is a practice that we have already put in place in our Parliament by several committees that, one bill on the principles of State control has been introduced to the committee by ten different bills to amend it. We have merged them into second readings to speed up, with respect for all the national MPs, the consideration of these bills and allow entrepreneurs to make better use of amendments to the laws than ten amendments, ten different bills. What is foretold in the second reading, what changes? I still want to make a point. The adoption of this bill will be for a period of time, because the committee, together with the international financial corporation with the European Business Association, is now preparing for August and will submit a new surveillance and control bill for September, which will be fully in line with European norms. These changes that we are proposing will simply improve the adoption of a new European law on control and surveillance, which will improve the business as a whole. What does he predict? Only the types of activities clearly outlined in the bill do not fall under the bill. It's narrowed down twice, because virtually every control body that 72 in Ukraine are today, different bills have come out of the scope of this bill on supervision and control. This is unacceptable. Most importantly, you can't. I would like us to confirm, after all, the amendment of Oxana Prodan, that only by decision of the court can companies cease to operate. Although foreign experts have said that this rule is already taken into account and is in force in legislation, that is not yet known by our tax collectors and our power structures. I'd take it further, that's an amendment. Now I'm going to say, the Oxana sale amendment, I'm going to get to her. In addition, it is clearly considered that each subject can be tested with a comprehensive test once a year. The decision and plan for a comprehensive inspection shall be adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers and shall be controlled by an authorized body. Also included is the amendment by Oksana Prodane and the entire group that was given. It's a 15, Oksana, right? Oksana, 15th? Yeah, I'm asking her to consider it, too, in part, which is the responsibility of the financial control authority and the controller if you've proven that they've caused damage to the court. These are the basic amendments that are just at the time of the adoption of the new European one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u218	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u219	These are basic amendments that will improve entrepreneurs for three, four months until we adopt a new European law on control and supervision in the first and second readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u220	Alexander Volodymyrna, please tell me the number of the amendment you are proposing for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u221	15-and, well, I mean, I'm ashamed to say, but I didn't see that on the committee we were looking at and also supporting her in part that she was supposed to be on the second reading, but, well, I didn't work out, maybe it was my fault. But I'm asking you to consider it acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u222	Alexander Volodymyrna, you've confused both the Supreme Council and the Chairman. We're going to put this amendment on the stand right now, or you're going to want to include it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u223	I'd like to take her into account for her second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u224	Think of it as not rejected, but as supported. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u225	It's not rejected, it's supported, it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u226	So in general, vote against this amendment. Do you get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u227	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u228	Everything, translated, translated. Okay. Dear colleagues, are there any amendments that national deputies insist on in the session room? I won't. Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, may we vote? Do you have enough votes to support this? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, this law, I feel, all have a desire to support. Let's make a signal vote now. Please come into the session room, sit in your workplace. Now that the entire hall is mobilized, we can make a decision. Please, colleagues, colleagues, then we'll discuss it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's sit in our jobs, try the vote. Taking into account the suggestions made by the chairman of the committee to take into account Amendment 15 into account, we adopt the law as a whole. But now, so that we don't overstep this law, we're going to have a signal vote. People's deputies, please decide on the signal vote on the support of this law. Please vote, everyone. [[13:23:42]] For 196 The factions, please. Parenthood – 65, Regions – 0.33 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, 35 – Freedom, "North European Ukraine" – 18, "For Peace and Stability" – 0, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 19. Dear colleagues, suggestions, that's what I understand. not to mobilize, but to put the question aside for consideration in a package of questions that we can accept as discussed earlier. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the activities of the State Employment Service). Reported the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I will briefly remind you of the content of the bill, a comparative table to which you have it in your hands. I'll point out that 25 amendments have been made, all 25 amendments have been taken into account. The point is that in order to determine the status and order of the activities of the State Employment Service, the Cabinet of Ministers passed this bill. I'll give you a quick reminder of the basics. First. Excluding the laws of Ukraine on population employment and on unemployment scares, the rules that define the status of the State Employment Service as the central authority of executive power. As the central authority of the executive branch of the State Employment Service has never begun its activities, and all functions are now being performed by the employment centre system under the direction of the Minsk Police. The other one. Reestablishing the status of the State Employment Service as executive director of the Social Security Fund in case of unemployment. Thirdly, the legislative anchoring of the placement of employees of the State Employment Service to public officials by making appropriate changes to the Act on State Service in force. In addition, the Social Insurance Fund's bill of administration provides similar powers, which are secured under other insurance funds and are defined in the framework of the legislation "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance". All 25 proposals made are included. There are no comments and suggestions from the government. Please accept this bill in its entirety, in its second reading and in its entirety.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u230	Wait a minute, let's do this. As for the amendments, they're all taken into account, but Catherine Timofievna thinks they're not all. Please turn on Vashtuk, the national deputy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u231	I understand the importance of this law and will vote for it. But I have this wish: I have the heads of this service present. Many young boys, the heads of their families, are now at war, in fact, their families being thrown away on their own. We have a lot of unemployed people in areas where we pay for help. Can’t they help those families by harvesting crops, cutting hay, repairing the fence, or covering the roof of a house that runs while the soldier is at war? Let them remember, then, their sacred duty today. So that these young people who are fighting will know that they are being cared for by the State. Then you will really be the State Employment Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u232	So this is a proposition, I understand, which Catherine Timofievna made for the State Employment Service, for the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues! We've got all the corrections taken into account. Alexander Volodymyrna insists. Please turn on the microphone of the Kugel MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u233	Dear reporter! Before adopting the amendments to this bill, it is defined by law, a minimum amount that has been reimbursed by the Employment Fund. Personally, we were warned that the bill you're proposing is a prescribed rule that the Employment Fund itself makes decisions about the amount of unemployment pay. I think it's unacceptable, it can't determine, it should be a legislative norm, but whether it's more giving, or what kind of work plan. I think as a national MP, you also get 100 calls a day that people can't get a job, there's no mobilisation work, there's no understanding of the development of this fund, and so I'm against this standard of employment to set the amount of pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u234	This rule is governed by the basic law on the basis of the activities of compulsory public social insurance. And there's a fund of specific social insurance, there's a fund management, there's a government, there's three sides that, at their meeting, define all aspects, including what you're talking about. And you're talking about the budget of a specific fund, there can be no compensation more than what they have in their budget, and otherwise the funds of the Soccer will have to borrow in Ukraine's budget, and that's also not acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u235	National MP Rosenko, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u236	Alexander Volodymyr, listen carefully. The insurance payment is clearly established by the Ukrainian Law and depends on the size of the salary, or probably on the amount of the contributions that a person makes and is done automatically. The Employment Fund, and it has always been, only the minimum amount of insurance payments is set because it depends on the Fund's budget and the Fund's budget is also approved by the Employment Centre, the Employment Service for the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this is the mandate of the Employment Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, and the very amount of unemployment payments, it's automatically established by law, it's automatic, so don't confuse. And this bill is normal and he... he needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u237	National Deputy Humil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u238	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! So once again, I want to emphasize that there are two amounts that we're talking about. There is a so - called sum paid to uninsured persons and this amount is determined by the government of the Unemployment Social Insurance Fund. It really depends on the size of the budget of the fund itself, and all the other amounts that are paid to people who work, depend on them automatically, depend on the size of the salary or more specifically and more correctly on the amount of insurance contributions they have paid to the fund accordingly. So I call for the support of this bill, and it's always been that way, and by 2013, it's the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u239	I would like to invite the Ukrainian people's deputies to support this bill. Make one warning except for those calls. Colleagues, we're going to be able to play along with you so much that the unemployment fund's payments are equal to the minimum wage and we're going to start slowly losing motivation to find people. After all, the Insurance Fund has what purpose? It is not just feeding but encouraging a person to find a new job and finance his training. In fact, the Social Security Fund finances and microcredits a microbusiness, a small business. Clearly, then, this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, there was a proposal made by all the national deputies who supported the amendments. I'm asking colleagues who work with the government to sit in their jobs. Let's figure out how to support this law. Please, dear fellows. I'm begging you, colleagues. Yuri Vitaliovich, please sit down and vote. Please invite people's deputies to the National Assembly Hall. We have the opportunity to make decisions now. Colleagues. All you have to do is push the right button. Please, colleagues. For your jobs. Other German, colleagues. Dear National Deputies! It is stated, colleagues, that I would like to support in the second reading and in general the bill (No. 4808) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the activity of the State Employment Service). Colleagues, we vote. Please, on the basis and in general. Excuse me, in the second reading, and in general, please vote. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[13:34:19]] For 218. Dear colleagues, please, let us work with responsibility. This law applies to all, left and right, and opposition, and most. This law applies to millions of our citizens. Please take your seats. By factions, please show me. The decision is not taken. 218. Parenthood – 75, Party of Regions – only 1, Impact – 35, 24 – Economic Development, 35 – Freedom, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Peace and Stability – 0, KPU – 0, non-fractional – 22. I'm asking the non-fractional to mobilize. Colleagues, can we get back to that question? I beg you, we all vote in our seats to return to this question. Please support everyone. [[13:35:17]] For the 220. The factions, please. 76 – "The Fatherland", 0 – regions, "The Impact" – 33.25 – "Economic Development", 35 – "Freedom", 26 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 0 – "Stability and Peace" – 0.25 – non-fractional. Please, National Deputy Rosenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u241	Alexander Valentine's Day, well, I see we've made a signal vote for this bill. Because there are no comments to it, no suggestions, no corrections are actually taken into account, so I suggest we go back to voting on this bill, maybe in a package of those bills that we were looking at just before that. Or today in the second half of the 16th, or tomorrow at the morning session, I'll come back to that question and vote on this important bill for everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u242	Please, now. People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u243	The Ministry of Finance proposes to support this bill, but delete the 15 bill, which provides for the translation of the financing of the Employment Fund, not at the expense of the fund, but into the state budget. Delete 15 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u244	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u245	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to remind the distinguished representatives of the ministries that Alexander Valentine's Day has very clearly shown you how to ask the right question. If you don't like the readjustment, put it on the stand. That's the first one. It's different. We must now vote back and vote on the law as a whole. Since no one will be here after lunch and no one will be there tomorrow, we know that. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, please, you know how to assemble a hall, I think you can find those words so that the 226 votes are required. Because if you look at the number of unvoted opposition. I'm sorry, according to the coalition, there's about 240 votes. People just don't vote. So I think we just need to remind the coalition to support such important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, there is still an offer to mobilise all of our resources to vote on MPs and factions. Because, in fact, the law exerts exclusively social pressure. And we have a lot of people who like to speak about social protection, and when we have to be in the hall and work, they're not there for some reason. And I would ask, fellow honourable Members, to feel that the Supreme Council is responsible to the whole country and not just for the MP status, but for the MP job. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to get back to that question. Let's sort out our cards, our cards exclusively, I emphasize, so that we can still support this proposal. Please, dear fellows. Colleagues! Colleagues! Now, let's go back to voting for the bill. I remind you again, the 4808 registration number. Please. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Please support the return to this issue. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this issue. Please vote everyone. [[13:39:29]] For 223 The decision is not taken. People's MP Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u247	Dear National Deputies, Alexander Valentinovich, the problem is 15 revisions. If you remove it and return the first edition, as the government has proposed, because it's a government editorial, and what was on the first reading, I think the law will be adopted. Let's solve the 15th amendment, no 15 revisions, and redecorate the first reading, and the law will be passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u248	No objection, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u249	Colleagues, well, let's break the law. Well, we deny it. Mikolo, we'll break the law. Let's try to get back to that question first, and then we can talk about 15 amendments, because without going back to that question, we can't even consider the 15 amendments at all. Please, Your Honor, go back to this issue, and I will make this proposal one last time. I will no longer be extorting the result from Parliament. Alexander Volodymyr, we vote. Please support the return to this question, everyone. [[13:40:51]] For 226 Decision taken. Andrew, you're voting, I hope so, please. Colleagues, now there was the proposal, the attention given by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, to accept the whole project as part of the first reading, without 15 revisions. Colleagues, by the way, there will be no law. Mikola, hold on, hold on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let us, then, make the right proposal, move forward according to the Rules. Viktor Mikhailovich proposed that this amendment, Amendment 15. Please confirm this amendment. [[13:41:54]] For-89 The decision is not taken. The amendment is not confirmed. Dear colleagues, I'll bet. Colleagues, pay attention! Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I beg you, we're about to fail the vote, but without your voice, it's not. Let's try it, dear fellows. Colleagues, everyone. Please, Paul Rosenko is an expert in social politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u250	Alexander Valentinovich, we have some kind of paradoxical situation where representatives of the Ministry of Finance don't go to committee meetings, and then they come here, to the conference room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they start to make some adjustments. On the committee, for an hour we discussed this issue, there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance, there were representatives of the Ministry of Finance, we agreed, there was a procrastination. Today, such questions are again raised. So obviously, compromise needs to be sought, we support this bill, let's say, without this norm. But I think that these things are unacceptable by the Ministry of Finance when we have a discussion here in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u251	Turn on the Rudkov microphone, please. Fudakina from the hall, I understand? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u252	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I also address the representative of the Ministry of Finance. What do you imagine if the fund is really missing? There is a law to be followed. Who should be the financier? Is that supposed to be a failure to comply with the law? This part of it, of course, then the question is, what does the budget do, and let's not overdo it here. This issue was discussed by consensus on the committee in the presence of the Ministry of Finance, and it is now totally unacceptable in the session room to roll down social laws at such a difficult time. I propose to vote in the same way that the committee has proposed. Otherwise, please take another look at the question and consider it in the second reading, no matter what it may be. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u253	Please, Your Honor, National Deputy Dry of the Committee. Let's make a decision after his comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u254	Dear colleagues, in the name of saving the bill, and without it, the State Employment Service in Ukraine will not work and cannot. If Minfin insists on changing the law, please let the government vote, except for the 15th Amendment of Shevchuk, let the government make an amendment that all the funds of the Socstre, all the public services are financed only at the expense of the administration, then we'll get a pension with you, as it once was, 149 dollars. Take responsibility. In fact, I think with these approaches, it's time for this government to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u255	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Mikhailovich, do you have a vote? Vote. Responsible, so I understand the proposal to vote? Responsible. Dear colleagues, please support the committee and responsibly vote on draft Law 4808, this is an important social issue. Dear colleagues, our vote depends on the activity of the State Employment Service. Please, colleagues, everyone in their seats. I'm asking my colleagues to talk on the phone. Now let's vote, and then let's answer the phone callers. Please support the second reading of Bill 4808 as a whole. All vote in favour of Ukraine. Please. [[13:46:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, question 4844: draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u256	My dear colleagues, my fighting tension, and the fighting effort of our troops, who are taking part in a free operation on Donbassa, have reached the highest level. Our military is already beyond the limits of human capabilities. They're winning. They're doing their job. Today we voted on the Part Mobilization Act, and I'm addressing you now to mobilize and vote to support the initial phase of partial mobilization in the third stage. This is a law prepared by the Committee on Defence for second reading on making changes to article 28. We need doctors today, we need men in the back today, we need technicians today for repairs, electricity, truck drivers. It is proposed to raise in the second grade the military bound for five years a regular, sergeantly warehouse for these categories, as I said, and a junior officer and senior officer for up to 60 years, and a senior officer for up to 65 years. We got three suggestions that were rejected. The committee asks you to vote on the basis today as a whole. Thank you and I hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u257	So in the second reading and in general? Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues! Alexander Ivanovich, wait a minute. Any MPs who insist on their amendments? None. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, a very responsible question. Please, colleagues, Vitaly Anatoliyovich, please come to your places of work. This question is related to the security of our country. Protect Ukraine? Let's defend it with our vote in this case. So, dear colleagues, Alexandra Volodymyrna, a relative, please take your seat. Colleagues, please give me a vote. Too much of a responsible question is a signal. For the support of this law, I ask for a vote in advance, please vote. [[13:49:59]] For 217 Dear colleagues, by factions, please see where our reserves are, where our resources are. Yes, 76 is Fatherland, the region is only 1, unfortunately, 34, 26 is Economic Development, 34 is Freedom, 24 is Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 are MPs for Peace and Stability, IPU is 0 is non-fractional 22. Postfaction colleagues, can we mobilize? Can we? Let's try it now. I see there's a few other national MPs coming up. Can I put it all together? There's a risk. Colleagues, please, Hennaday Hennadiovich, to your workplace, please. A Highly Responsible Question! Please, Your Honor, in the second reading and in general vote all together, let's vote responsibly, 4844. We're all voting! [[13:51:13]] For 232 Decision taken. The risk was justified. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've missed the law. I'm talking to Vitalia Hometics. Is he here in the hall? I see it, I see it. Please 2403: Draft Law on Amendments to Article 230 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for alcohol and liquor control) Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Bill 2403 was drafted: Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the control of the circulation of alcohol and liquor products). The second reading came up with proposals, almost all of them included. And there is a proposal to vote in the second reading and in general. 37 proposals, 37, 32 included in whole or in part. Alexander Valentinovich, we can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u259	May we vote, Your Honor? This is a responsible question for many deputies, because it applies to, I'll remind you, the circulation of alcohol and liquor products. Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote? Ready. Please, honourable members of the national parliament, vote on the draft Law 2403 – amending Article 230 of the Code of Taxation on the Control of the Traffic in Spirit and Drinking Spirit Products. Seriously, control should be not only in our buffet, but throughout the country. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to come to terms with this. Please support the project in second reading and in full. Please vote. Alexander Volodymyrically, please vote. [[13:53:52]] For-166 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues. "Paternal Development" 32, misunderstood position, the Party of Regions – 1.34 – Impact, 27 – Economic Development, 35 – Freedom, 25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – MMA, this is what I'm going to call this faction, KPU, so far – 0, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues! I ask the head of the Motherland faction to make a statement on this matter. Is there any point in voting or not? Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u260	Dear colleagues! We've been looking at the faction of this bill, there's a whole series of warnings. So our proposal to the faction is to re-read the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u261	Another reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support everyone for a second reading of this bill. Just so we don't cross it, at all. Please, honourable national deputies, support the proposal for a second reading again. Please vote. [[13:55:03]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Rudzkowski, national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u262	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! This bill proposes to increase the control of the State alcohol tax inspection, and this will allow for an increase in budget revenues, because we know that hundreds of millions of dollars go around informally and have no effective control over the circulation of alcohol. I propose, Alexander Valentine's Day, not to fail this law, as today's Hall does, to return to it on Thursday, if necessary, then the committee will be asked again tomorrow at the committee meeting to consider and include this issue on Thursday. Right now, it's a budget fill-up, and I'm calling on all the deputies to vote on this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u263	Thanks for the offer. He's the head of the Vitaly Hometics Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u264	Dear colleagues. I didn't understand the position of the BUT government faction. The bill, which stands in the highest priority in the Cabinet of Ministers and is written as a priority, aims to strengthen control of the liquor market. Tell me what amendments you don't specifically make, maybe we'll solve this right now, and we'll take these amendments off. And it's so simple to say that everything is bad, and on the other hand, the government says that this bill is necessary, it's not clear where the truth is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u265	I see. That's a rhetorical question. Dear colleagues. Let's give Sobolje a word now. And I can see it in the hall so much that we're not going to be able to figure it out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u266	Dear colleagues. Our faction has failed to make all the adjustments. That is why we proposed a second reading again. If this is discussed on Thursday, we don't deny it, but since there are no votes now, our proposal to go back, put on a second reading again, and on Thursday we vote on this bill, we don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m0.u267	Dear colleagues. I can see in the hall that we don't have votes to make decisions, including the second reading. I want to use the opportunity to make an announcement and inform you. Before we started our meeting at 12: 30 a.m., I had a conversation with the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Awakiv, and he provided information. He asked me to tell you that the National Guard, along with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, has entered the great city of Sevierodonetsk, and now the city is being completely cleansed of terrorists. Let's support our Heroes! [[Applause]] In addition, I make an announcement that, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zirkin Igor Markovich, as part of the parliamentary group "Economic Development" and the coalition "European Choice". Yes. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs to be in the workplace at 4:00 p.m. We have very important questions to consider. There's a break until 4:00.
