ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats. The Supreme Council is now continuing its work. Please call everyone to the session room. Dear colleagues, on May 14, 2014, the All - Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors was held in Kiev. The conference, in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 10 and 13 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, appoints two members of the High Council of Justice by secret ballot, acting as Attorney-General Oleg Igorovich Nechletski and the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Vasil Jaroslavovich Glavatego. In accordance with article 17 of the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice and article 217 of the Law of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council prior to the appointment of the members of the High Council of Justice, they make an oath at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Oleg Igorovich, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u2	I, the Skretniky Oleg Igorovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to form a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u3	Thank you. To make an oath to the rostrum, members of the High Council of Justice, Vasil Jaroslavovich Glavatius, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u4	I, Chief Vasil Jaroslavovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u5	Let's welcome the members of the High Council of Justice. Come on, dear fellows, let's welcome. [[Applause]] They have a very responsible task and work to restore confidence in the judicial system of authority. And I hope that the new members of the Justice Council will be able to carry out their duties with dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you and I will now be able to address very serious and responsible questions. And I want to consult with you. We have a parliament that has not decided a few days ago on the early termination of powers, particularly national MPs, who are asking for a permanent suspension of their powers on their own grounds. This is particularly true of the People’s Deputy of Dach. I'm going to the hall. Can we now make a decision to deprive this national MP of his mandate? Later? Dear colleagues, later, means later. Then I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues, then let's look at the question, I just want to feel the mood of the Supreme Council for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u6	Signal vote, what's the question then? To protect Ukraine? Yes, I understand? Dear colleagues, I'd like to propose. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to consider some of the issues we need to take a decision on right now. You remember that there are questions that we have discussed with you and that we need to make the right decisions. The first of these issues is the draft Decision on the Program to help people who have experienced political repression in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and in the city of Sevastopol. The project is registration number 4510. Can we make a decision on this now?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u7	We discussed it as far as I could remember yesterday. Yes or no? Let's try to figure this out. There's an offer, there's an offer by Edward Leonov, the author of this decree, based on it as a whole, right? Turn on Edward Leon's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u8	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. I very much ask you, honourable national MPs, this is a very simple decision-making project, a very simple decision. It consists literally of one paragraph. By this paragraph, we refer to the government as to the need to develop a social support programme for the Crimean refugees. That's a very simple point. We, as the Supreme Council, are simply tasking the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a program of social support for the Crimean refugees. And you will be grateful to all the criminals, these tens of thousands of people who are now refugees, and those thousands of people who are just going to leave that Crimea and go to continental Ukraine. These people have a need for treatment, for employment, for their children at school, for students to want to move to Ukrainian higher education. All of this needs to be regulated by the government program. Please, Your Honor, no matter what kind of political power you are referring to, support this draft decree. Thank you very much. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the draft Decree (registration number 4510) on the Assistance Programme for those who have experienced political repression in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues! Because now you're going to yell that you haven't been able to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the draft decree as a whole. Please vote. [[16:17:20]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 61, Impact – 29, 22 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 4, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, next question. Next question: the draft Law on Private Detective Activities. Everyone remembers that the question was discussed in detail yesterday. All those who wanted to speak. It was considered in full procedure. I ask you, Your Honor, that we now determine by vote. From the profile committee, it was suggested that the question be taken as a basis, that is, in the first reading. Do you understand the offer? Colleagues, you got the offer. Then I'd like you to identify yourself. Dear colleagues, we need to go to work, and then we won't have to signal anyone. I believe that Parliament should be responsible for its duties, not only in the morning session, but also in the evening session. Dear colleagues, Bill No. 10936 of the Private Detective (Research) Act. Please support the committee's proposal and vote on it as a basis. Please vote. [[16:19:02]] For-151 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. You see, your voice just wasn't enough. The factions. Regional Party - 0.60 - Fatherland, Impact - 26, Economic Development - 11, Sovereign European Ukraine - 2.31 - Freedom, 0 - Company, 21 - non-fractional. Dear colleagues, the following question is about the state registration of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs (registration number 2999). The offer is to be accepted as a basis, dear colleagues. Please wait until we turn on the "Race" system. Turn on 1 minute for comments to the head of the committee, Kugel Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u10	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I want to remind all the MPs that this bill has a very short rule that does not allow changes to statutory documents and registrations on copies of documents and decisions, and this is very important. It can be accepted both as a basis and as a whole. It's a very short but very important decision about possible raids. Think about your children’s business and business.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, I ask the Supreme Council to now support Law 2999. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[16:21:01]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the following question is 4081: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the level of social protection of war veterans. The Tomenka People's Deputy Project. So, dear colleagues, is it necessary to give the author a minute to inform him? Please turn on the microphone of the Tomenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u12	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! You see, the situation in the Supreme Council is clear. And here's my offer. Let's regret the wives and mothers who participated in the fighting in Afghanistan, who died either in Afghanistan or in Ukraine, and at the time of the compromise in the middle of the coalition, we will not put this law to the vote, like the rest of the laws, and we will move on, Alexander Valentine's Day, to the paragraph: "the review of the drafts in the first reading." Let's work on the bills in the first reading. And as we will understand that we have a consensus on voting, then we will go back to voting. Because we are about to throw down four or five more basic bills that people are expecting from us, and then we will think about how to move on. So my request is that we continue not to vote on the bill with Suškević, but to move on to the procedure for discussing the bills in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u13	Please, the microphone of the people's deputy Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, those bills that we're considering today, which the House, in principle, wants to vote for, they don't vote because one of the groups, an influential group with authoritative deputies, does not support. You see, we need to get together with the coalition leaders, take down this question, without this group, none of the issues will go away, provided that two factions don't yet vote. So let's not go ahead with the question, because it's really not going to give us anything today, but we're going to consider, at least, the issues that need to be addressed in the first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u15	Please turn on the Bilkovi Olza Valentine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that a few bills are fundamental, they lay the groundwork for the development of Ukraine's new economy. And in the state that we're in today, I'm just going to be sorry and ashamed to look into the eyes of people who are waiting for the Council to give a signal to some new "parasts" in the economy. Well, who are we gonna look like? What, we can't make a deal here to vote for one law or another? Several laws, a group of 100 experts worked there. And today, because of any whims or questions, we will not be able to vote! I ask you to move on to a later vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! Then let's make a decision with you. I would ask that the faction leaders speak in a moment about today's format of our work in Parliament. Please turn on Sergei Sobolev's microphone, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u18	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! I'd like to support Mikaly Tomenko's proposal and other colleagues -- to move on to the first-reading issues, and perhaps next week, to postpone voting on these issues. Because if we fail this bill and a number of other bills that are really necessary because of political misunderstandings, it would be completely wrong. So I'd like to ask that we move the voting issues forward better, and now we're talking about everything on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u19	I got the offer. Please, Your Honor. Now, now. Please, Alexei Kaida, please microphone, "Freedom,"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u20	Thank you, Alexy Kaida, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We clearly see that there will be no effective voting in the session room right now, so we support the consideration of issues without adopting decisions on further work, maybe next week. I think we need to gather the faction leaders to discuss the situation. We already have a decision on the continuity of the session, and I think we can get together and vote any day we need. But for no one, it is likely that the vote will begin after 25. There are about 27 numbers that we can gather, vote, there will be some pre-election battalions somewhere -- and Parliament will finally get in the right direction and vote. And now I suggest we discuss the issue with the next one -- whether it's next week or next week -- sitting down and approving, voting effectively. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, I'd like to ask from the Sovereign European Ukraine. Olesia Donny, please turn on the microphone. I see a hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u22	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The Group "Northern European Ukraine" is in a position to vote today in favour of depriving the Queen of her parliamentary powers, which calls for violations of Ukraine's territorial integrity, as well as supporting the removal of the parliamentary powers of all those deputies who violate Ukrainian legislation. Similarly, we turn to the Attorney General’s Office. Sadly, for example, Mr. Bolotov left because there was no criminal offence against him. So the information from the Border Service is that there was no direct action against him. So at this point, we don't have Parliament's agreement to put in place a system of "sensor button," which is the fight against buttoning, and to get rid of the complicity of fellow MPs. These are two issues that are a violation of the Constitution, which we demand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u23	I got the offer. Dear colleagues! Please turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u24	Dear National Deputies! The Vitalia Klicka faction first proposes to re-register Ukrainian national deputies and to publish a list of deputies who have left their jobs. Since there were many more deputies in the hall after lunch, they left him. Secondly, after re-registration, we propose to start a normal job discussing the draft laws that we have prepared and incorporated into the agenda. We're going to discuss draft laws -- that's the main part of drafting laws -- and next time we're going to vote and we're going to make decisions on those laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u25	Thank you. I want to give the secretary an order so that today's count of the national MPs will not be in the morning, but in the evening. Please, I'm asking Kinah. Anatoly Kirilovich? Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u26	Alexander Valentinovich! Colleagues! There is every reason to believe that the draft draft law on improving the defence and mobilisation issues can be unified for the whole room, because this law has already been passed in the first reading and it has long been to be accepted as a basis, because the issue requires daily implementation. And I'm asking him to vote today for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u27	Alexander Ivanovich, I can. It's Law No.4785, right? No.4785. We can go to the hall now, and we can check with a signal vote: are we ready to pass this law now? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, who's in charge of reviewing this law now, so we don't tear it down by a successful vote right now. Colleagues, please, are related to the safety of our country No. 4785. I'm asking for a signal vote to support this bill right now. Please, dear fellows. Please activate the "Council" system and vote. [[16:30:26]] For 197 Not yet. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 58 – Fatherland, 26 – Impact, Economic Development – 30, 26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 30 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 27 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I can take the path that was suggested here. We can consider the questions raised for first reading without making decisions. Is that the format you're taking? Roger that. Let's work on the format of our decisions that we're going to vote on separately. Registration number 4436, the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Land and Forest Codes for the Conservation of Protective Zones of Electricity. Dear colleagues, there's a proposal for us to make a decision right now so that all the questions that we're going to consider with you in the first reading, we're going to consider a reduced procedure. No objections? There's no objection. I ask you to support the proposal to consider the issues in the first reading by means of a reduced procedure. [[16:32:00]] For-160. Decision taken. Please, National MP Mirzny Alexander Borisovich will report this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u28	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, colleagues! Your view is on the draft Law on Changes to Ukraine’s Land and Forest Codes for the Conservation of Electrical Protective Zones (number 4436) since March 13, 2014. Imported by Ukraine's National Deputies by Grubo Grigory Ivanovich, Turman's Viktor Ivanovich, Kovach Vasil Illich and myself. The project includes proposals for inclusion in the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Forest Code of Prescriptions for the establishment of security zones along air and cable transmission lines and around transformer substations, distribution points and devices, as well as the maintenance of these zones. The purpose of these clarifications is to bring these codes into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Electricity Act and the Energy Land and the legal regime for special areas of energy objects (for the establishment of security zones). According to legislation, the security zones of energy objects are set up to ensure normal operating conditions, prevent damage, and reduce their negative impact on people, adjacent lands, natural objects, and leisure. Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Lands of Electricity and the Legal Regime of Special Zones of Energy Objects. Enterprises that operate energy objects are required without prior harmonization and authorization to carry out periodic technological clearances from shrubs, trees, and branches in the protected areas. The adoption of the bill will allow us to determine the conditions for removal of self-sustainment plants and trees within the lines laid down by the projects for the construction of power lines, with a view to maintaining them properly, namely, removals can be done without.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u30	removals may take place without permission and agreement with forest owners or users. On March 24, 2014, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority concluded that the first reading of the draft law could be based on a general conclusion. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Agrarian Policy Committee, the apostle Michael Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on March 26, 2014, considered Bill 4436, introduced by the people’s deputies. The bill proposes to align the situation of Ukraine's Land and Forest Codes with the provisions of the Ukrainian Energy Land Act and the legal regime of special zones of energy objects. In particular, it is proposed to amend article 76 of the Ukrainian Land Code and in accordance with articles 1 and 21 of the Ukrainian Energy Land and Legal Regime for Special Zones of Energy Objects Act. The amendments to the Ukrainian Forest Code propose that article 70 of this Code be brought into line with the provisions of article 27 of the Ukrainian Energy Land Act and the legal regime for special zones of energy objects. It is also proposed that the Code be supplemented by a new article 102-1, defining the characteristics of protecting, using and reproducing forests on land and security areas of energy objects. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft bill, 4436, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this question: two for, two against. Please. Please turn on the microphone of the Sabia People's Deputy, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u34	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill, as it will allow us to increase the safety of our electricity lines and allow us to increase the safety of our gas distribution points. In addition, this bill, the law, will remove the bureaucratic burden when it is essential to clean up the forest especially under the lines of electricity. This will also eliminate many contradictions between land users and service providers of gas distribution stations and power lines, which often reach even the legal burden. So we ask you all to support us all in order to once again eliminate bureaucracy in our country. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u35	The word is given to the People’s Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So when you go to Borispil Airport on the route, in front of the village of Gora, between the villages of Happy and the Mountain, look to the right. There's a huge Sohar bay. Her owners cut down the trees because they called them self - centered. Next you'll see big stations selling cars: "Pejo", "Reno" and so on. There is also this area that was engulfed with the sign that these are self - sowing trees. We're around Kiev, like a tumor, cutting out lungs. On the plane when you're flying, for example, at the Dwarves, look at the top. There's all the stains! It's the lungs of the city of Kiev! I was deeply saddened by the phrase in the bill: "They can be done without permission and agreement with forest owners or users." But here, even with or without the owners of the forest, they are destroyed! So I think that if we vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, before the second reading, there should be some kind of protective, precautionary action that would not allow the forest to continue to be destroyed around the megapolises: Kiev, Kharkiv, by the way, Zaporozhye and Dnipropetrovsk. This bill is supposed to reduce bureaucracy and may actually contribute to the further destruction of Ukrainian forestry, including, by the way, Carpathian, because the LEP lines pass through the mountains and under them grow trees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u38	Please pass the word to my colleague Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u39	Please turn on Paul Rosenck’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u40	Thank you. Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, you know, on the one hand, the bill's mission looks rather noble -- to take away the bureaucratic weight. But, you know, when it comes to issues of uncontrollable cleaning of green plants, logging, I'm personally speaking for as much bureaucratic gravity as possible around this issue. Because, you know, under cut-offs, we could get 90 percent of the forest fund in Ukraine. Do you understand? And when we don't define any of these zones, when we don't make any laws, even if there's some principle of logging these forests, we say that completely, uncontrollablely, without any permission, without any agreement, these forests will be cut down. It's not just about the bushes, it's about the forests, you know. So it's obvious that in this case we're looking out for, first of all, the national value of all Ukrainians is forests. You know a nice saying: You don't have to cut something that we might need very seriously sometime. So I'm asking you to be very careful about the bill. And in this case, in this case, the impact fraction will not support the bill, and I suggest that it be sent for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u41	I've got the position. Please, from the non-fractionals, the national MP Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I support my previous colleague, Paul Rosenck, and we need to be very careful about forests and land, and about their owners, because we have some forest lands that have gone to pies to people, and we can't ignore their opinion, and we can't ignore the opinion of the community. But I think we need to work out this bill. But I'd like to make another point. There were a lot of people under the walls of the Supreme Council, and I was talking to them, and they're demanding that we invite the head of the National Bank, as well as government representatives, to solve the issue for tomorrow. Indignant6 people took loans on a course that was 2-3 years ago, bracelets. From the politics of the state, the course went up, there's no blame here for people and entrepreneurs. So we need to create a task force and listen to the report as planned by the government and the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u43	Yeah, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u44	To solve this question because introducing a bill is one thing and how to work out a plan of action? Because there are so many of them. And if we don't help them, we have to understand that there's going to be a lot of small businesses that get loans, and now there's no such revenue in a difficult situation. If we think that the situation is really in a country of crisis and we really have these things happening that have a very bad impact on the economy, we need to give people a rescue mechanism and work it back. Please, and I appeal to you as the Head of the Supreme Council to ensure that the day after tomorrow we are present and to listen to the report on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u45	I see. Please give me one minute to the People's Deputy, the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u46	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm gonna say some nasty things right now. But when I listen to the speakers, I realize that people didn't read the bill at all, they don't understand what it's about. But with the opportunity to appear on television screens and run a presidential campaign, they simply begin to tell completely populist stories. The LEP’s security zones and everything else are long established by law. But the trouble is, there's work going on around these security zones. For example, an agricultural enterprise cultivates land or prepares forests, and so forth. It's just that, first of all, you can't fall. And second of all, I'm sorry, the transformer booth that's standing in the middle of the field, the weeds just above the roof, you can't get there, you can't clean it. As a result, everything burns, people die, and there's nothing we can do. Excuse me, let's stop populism and think about what we're talking about. Or at least read what is offered and then qualify.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will now move on to the next question. Let me remind you that we have decided to vote separately on the issues under discussion. Before giving the floor to Chumak, I would like to make an announcement. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I report on the establishment in the Supreme Council of the seventh vocation of the interfractional State Rebirth. The Interfractional Union of "The Rebirth of the State" was elected as the national deputy of Kupchak. The union included four national deputies. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. It's a replica, isn't it? Please turn on the microphone to Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u48	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Alexander Valentine's Day, you've released a draft of Law 3522 that relates to the implementation of the Visa Liberalization Action Plan. Yesterday we finished making all the necessary decisions, including decisions on this aspect. This law greatly duplicates the positions that we voted in the form of law yesterday. So that there is no conflict between the laws of this and the ones we have adopted, there is a request to postpone consideration of this law, to see that we do not find the same standards. Because this law regulates the same relationship that we adopted for a meeting in Brussels.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u49	At the suggestion of the authors, please postpone this law. Please, Your Honor, the next question is registration number 2149: draft Act amending the Administrative Services Act (to eliminate corruption in the provision of administrative services). National MP Agaphonova Natalija Volodymyrna will report on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, the draft Law on Administrative Services is actually taking a big step in the fight against corruption. How can we fight corruption? You can set a stronger responsibility, as we did to you the other day, by adopting the law that was necessary for visa liberalisation. But in fact, they don't put a car in front of a horse. You know, you need to eliminate the causes that are being created in society for corruption. And that's why we're proposing to enact a law that minimizes the participation of citizens, the contact of citizens with an official. What's happening to us in society right now? To get some help, a citizen goes and gets another day of help, that is, he gets it, he goes a few ways to get help. What do we propose to do? We suggest that just a citizen should apply to an authority that provides administrative services. All of it. This is established by the so - called application principle, and then the official collects the information himself. Because it needs information, it's all in electronic form, and it's all in the public domain. Let's not force our citizens to run like this among all the government authorities to collect such a bunch of documents in order to get one tiny piece of evidence. That's why we've been working on this bill, putting in imperative form the obligation for the Kabmin to develop all the necessary bases and also establishing an electronic duty on websites to reproduce information. And we invite you to adopt this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up to discuss this matter. Turn on the "Race" system. The word is given to the people's deputy Zelik, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u52	I'd like to give it to Osuhov Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u53	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u54	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Indeed, this is a very important law that needs to be passed. You know, when Ukrainians go to different authorities, especially for help, those workers, you know, make a face like this, that's like this Ukrainian guy coming in after that help, like he's guilty of something to that person, you know, and he's doing such a big favor. And clearly, this law needs to be adopted, like other anti-corruption laws, such as the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, which actually has to destroy corruption in Ukraine and also deal with the corruption that has been committed and the criminal Party of Regions that has stolen billions of Ukrainian money and is now funding separatists, particularly in Eastern Ukraine. We must also adopt the Book of Illustration Act, which should clean up and change the system of power in Ukraine, because without those laws the Ukrainian State cannot and cannot develop. We will definitely uphold the anticorruption laws that will be enacted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and in particular this law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u55	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Fedoruk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u56	Fedoruk, electoral district number 201, Fatherland. I would also like to say that at a meeting of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, the bill was considered. And regardless of what the comments were made, and the observations were from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the committee nevertheless decided to support the bill in the first reading on the basis and to entrust it with further work on the second reading. I fully support the idea and authors of this bill that it reduces the level of corruption and minimizes the contact of applicants, people with officials, and it will serve to improve service, provide administrative services. And it just needs to be implemented, not put in some kind of obstacle. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u57	Please give the word to Rosenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u58	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u59	Please turn on Sergio Kaplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u60	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I'm one of the co-authors of this bill. Of course, our faction will support this position. But I would like to make a real example of what this bill needs and what changes it can make in the lives of ordinary citizens. Every cyanide knows about MREO No. 2 on Tupoljeva Street, which is where every cyanide gets his driver's license. As the driver’s rights come after the Soviet Union, so does every Ukrainian. In time, the head of this fat place was appointed the son of the Head of Internal Affairs in the Kharkiv region, a close friend of the former Minister of Interior, another close friend of Janukovič, Zacharychenka. There was a revolution, and I watched how this fat place developed, and as the leader of this MREO, attention was given to this MREO, being in Madrid, living in Madrid, Spain. And when he arrived in Kiev, he went to work with guards, covered up the city, while this son of a great head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was on his way to work. I thought the revolution was over -- and we'll see how many years he gets for bribery and corruption: 15,14, 13, 12, 10. I'm opening Mr. Avakov's Home Office website -- and I'm just shocked that this guy was appointed by Minister Avakov as the deputy director of DAI's MREO control of the entire country. Of course, under such conditions we will have East, both in the East, and in the South, and later, if such assignments continue, we will have the same problems in Kiev. And you will have several princes in the capital! I'd like you and I to adopt a voluntary position -- and besides this law, we've adopted other anti-corruption laws, and we've finally returned to the legislation on illustrations that my colleagues are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u61	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u62	My colleagues from Fatherland and, of course, my colleagues from the Vitalia Klicka faction. I've also introduced such a bill, and I find it revolutionary. And the last. We don't have to make any compromises. We have a strong, uncompromising picture of all these KGB representatives in the system of government authorities, corruption, sonics and heads of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Soviet Union. Cleansing up Ukraine, new reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy, Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u64	The bill is very much needed, of course, to minimize corruption risks, to simplify the lives of users of administrative services. We know that it takes a lot of time for people to get administrative services. But we also need to consider the experience we have. Who has a cousin named Georgia. This bill does not set a deadline for the provision of administrative services. So a citizen must be granted either within 30 days, or a reasoned refusal. This is our offer with my colleague Alexander Igorovich Nechayev. Thank you. And the bill should be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue and we can now consider the next draft (registration number 3042) of the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemyakin will report both for the author and for the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u66	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear colleagues, I, along with my colleagues, Mr. Palamarchuk of the Strike and Mr. Vasiliy Hennady Andryovich, am the author of this bill. The current adoption of the State Bureau of Investigation bill is stipulated by the following First. The need to implement paragraph 9 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the Constitution for depriving the prosecution of the investigation function. This event was delayed for 18 years. Now there is every reason for it to finally come. It's different. In 2012, a new KPC was adopted, according to which the authority to investigate certain crimes is transferred from the investigating departments of the prosecutor's office to the investigating State Bureau of Investigation. This is to take place in a short time, but not later than 2017. The purpose of the draft law is to create institutional and legal principles for preventing and combating corruption, particularly among senior officials of the state, judges and prosecutors. In line with the draft law, the State Bureau of Investigation is to become a state body set up on the basis of principles other than those of today’s law enforcement agencies. It is proposed not to create a bureau of inquiry based on existing special units, such as the IMF and the BSS, which have not become an obstacle to the spread of corruption in the higher echelons of power. We need to make the D.B.I. non-secret, as independent as possible, with the public under control and the higher authorities of the state. Specialized authorities to prevent and combat corruption, similar to the D.B.I., were created in the very countries of the world in which corruption had significantly penetrated the police, security services, and public prosecutors. During the drafting of the bill, we studied the experiences of countries such as Latvia, Spain, France, Singapore, and other countries. Short conceptual positions of the project. First. The State Bureau of Investigation is the central authority of the executive branch with special status and at the same time the law enforcement authority. The other one. The DBR is formed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Third. DBR officials are government officials, their border numbers are determined by Kabmin, but they cannot be less than 200. The State Bureau of Investigation relies on such functions. The first is participation in the formation and implementation of anti-corruption policies. Second: State control over anti-corruption legislation. Third, forensic investigation, today's prosecution and intelligence. An additional function is to counter torture crimes in law enforcement. She stepped out of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the Kaversin v. Ukraine case. The draft law specifically and comprehensively defines exactly what to deal with. It is a list of corruption - related criminal offences as well as corruption - related offences. The overall structure of the Bureau of Investigation includes the central apparatus and 6 inter-regional branches of the Bureau of Investigation. In the central apparatus, specialization controls are being created. The Head of the Bureau of Investigation, and only on the basis of the results of the open competition on the recommendations of the Competition Commission and the submission of the Prime Minister, is Kabmin appointed. The rotation is inevitable. Therefore, two consecutive periods of one and the same person cannot hold the headship of the DBR. Once again, I stress that the bill fully meets both international standards and the new Code of Criminal Procedure. The Special Committee supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council take it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an important question, please sign up for discussion. They only signed up. Come on, I'll let the faction do the same. It's just that everyone in favor must have pushed the button, and someone needs to push the button against it. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will be followed by Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski. We've talked to him about this before, and we've been in the session room for a long time, because we've had a third and fourth call when making a decision, whether positive or negative, depends on how a person reports a bill on the stand. Right? As he answers the question, a few are clear and accessible. If the bill that colleague Agafonov just reported has given me a bit of an intuition, because it's really right, well, there can't be a fight against corruption just by some pseudo-, anti-, anti-, corrupt action that turns into a farce: anti-corruption protocols and other, other nonsense. Either we create conditions for business subjects - or we don't. The bill that we have just heard aims to ensure that corruption is investigated in the high echelons of our authority. And it is clear that we need such an organ. But that's why I asked for words. The committee has decided to support it. And I have in my hands the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which is 8 pages, with serious comments. So I'm proposing to the drafters of the bill, and there's a reference to the contradictions of the Constitution that define special status. Controversy with the basic law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Contrary to the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure, there are some rules. It would probably be best if this bill were called off. Or, if there is such a possibility and this is not contrary to 116 articles of the Rules, I would recommend that the drafters of the bill tell us when we make the decisions when we vote, whether such norms may be corrected by second reading. And in the way it's written now, it can't be supported. Because it contradicts the entire series of basic, conceptual laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u70	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina I sometimes associate with what my colleague Suhi said. He's right about the fact that in this bill, it's really very complicated and very difficult, and it has a lot of achilles heel. But I want to deny him a single one. The reason for this law, this anticorruption office, which is finally to get there, is to the very top of the power that has been constantly protected by the far-off approaches of law enforcement agencies. The law enforcement authorities were captivating, raising their hands to the mountain and saying, do whatever you want, we won't touch you. Because, Mr. Jaroslav, if we put this bill back in the long box again, I say again, it's already wandering over the Supreme Council, God knows how many calls. After all, I am convinced that it should be accepted in this version. But the second reading together insists on every article of this bill in order to get it to be more or less acceptable. But this must be done, colleagues. Because even here, in this room, we are. I'm not gonna characterize it right now, but in this room if there was such a, really, honest, noble, open, government office that would do this, a lot of these people would have long ago had a notice to take it out and not touch it, and that's understandable. Let's say, well, there's Mr. Hometic. He's been in Parliament a long time. I know him, I understand. He kept all his taxes in his fist. Think of this tax with the gold bullion, with the money that was packed. You know that very well. Today, he similarly controls anything that is possible, even the same tax that seems to have been updated. But in fact, let the people's major MPs say who are assigned in your areas? Any new fresh people? In Kirovograd, for which I was responsible, was appointed from the nest of Tabal’s people. Here's what we got. Because of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u72	When votes are available, Alexander Valentinovich must be voted for. Ukraine needs him. I agree with Suhim that there is, indeed, something about which, very meticulously, our principal administration has written it all, but it is necessary to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u73	Please, Victor Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u74	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to point out that it's not about the Anti-Corruption Investigation Act, it's about the State Bureau of Investigation Act, it's about the investigation. I'd like to emphasize those rules of law that shouldn't be in this law, and unfortunately they are there. What are we talking about? This law regulates the conditions of pay. We've taken a very bad practice with you: in every law, to determine the conditions of pay. And as a result, we have a full vacchanal to pay for our work. And to your knowledge, I'd like to show you, this is really a European salary. There's a salary of ten minimum wage, plus an internship allowance of another 100 percent (this is about 12,000 dollars), plus a classroom allowance of 55 percent, that's 15,000. That's a good salary: 35,000 dollars. Next. We have adopted laws everywhere that set special pensions at 70 percent of our earnings. By this law, 80 percent of officials are caste. More than that, here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u75	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u76	This is where an unprecedented standard is restored. If anyone remembers the effect of a minister of the interior in 2004 when a person with a salary of 10,000 dollars retires and has hundreds of thousands of wages. It's an unprecedented norm when a pension is set at the end of the last month's work. And as you know, we have no limit on anything, and that leads to something that can be thrown under any kind of pension. We insist that appropriate standards be removed from the law. The issue of pay should be the exclusive competence of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's the first moment about the law I was going to say. Secondly, this law largely corresponds with the Procurator's Act, and they have to be considered and adopted at the same time. On the first reading, we passed the Procurator's Act. The strike faction insists that the Search and Investigation Act and the Prosecutor's Office Act be reviewed and made at the same time, because these rules must be consistent with each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u77	Please conclude with the author’s team, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u78	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, you're right. There's a lot of work to be done on economic, pension and all that. We're talking about the fact that in Ukraine we need to create an organ that's been written in the Constitution for 18 years, but it's not being created. This time. And to the fellow Sukhmu, whom I respect, I want to answer the following. What he's read just now is that the Scientific and Experimental Authority concluded that it was still for the Pshonka Artem, who was the first deputy on the committee we have, and there is today, but he's gone, he doesn't have it. Therefore, the prosecutor’s office never wanted to see a trial taken away from them. That's what they said. So look, it says "May 2012." That's why I think this bill is up to date, and that's what Mr. Pinzenik6 really says, is to be adopted along with the Procurator's Act, because a pretrial investigation has to be given to someone. It is the Bureau of Investigation who must assume these powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have considered the matter. I honestly don't see anyone without glasses from Liberty. Ruslan, give me a hint, or I can't see. National MP Mishchenko, please turn on the microphone. Please, Andrew Mishchenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u80	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Society, the establishment of the State Bureau of Investigation is a requirement of today, with the introduction of ultimately the ideas of the Dignity Revolution, such as the elimination of corruption and the abolition of the state's senior officials: judges, prosecutors, militias, and the non-encouragement of politics and business. The practice of being with law enforcement agencies, the same prosecutor's office, courts, internal security agencies, is vicious and creates a circular message. The experience of European countries shows that the existence of a separate government body that controls the activities of government officials significantly reduces the level of corruption and abuse. Of course, previous colleagues pointed to a number of shortcomings in this bill, but they can be corrected for second reading. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union clearly supports the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u81	Please, National Deputy Dombrowski, one minute. Then Zharavsky, and we finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that this law needs to be passed, and I can also agree with National Deputy Suhim that he has several problematic points in view of other legislative instruments. But I am convinced that this law needs to be considered in the context of general pressure, controlling pressure, on economic subjects, including Ukraine. And by adopting this law by voting for it, and I support that this law is needed by the country, we have to understand clearly: and what control institutions we're reducing, or what functions we're taking from whom we're taking. Because the number of inspections, control facilities, control bodies in Ukraine need to be reduced in order for Ukraine to develop normally. But in general, the fact that this law is to be adopted in the first reading is what I support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u83	Thank you. Please, we're taking a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, for the sake of the purity of the experiment, the Scientific and Experimental Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not without sin. And here my colleague, Cosemiakin Andrey, correctly said 2012 and the date of the conclusion was 2012. Not all that is recommended to us by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council Secretariat should be taken into account, because the competence of the people's advocates is much higher than that of the scientific expert. And we have experience, when there's a lot of drafts going on in the room, and ignoring the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, it's just a recommendation. And now, with regard to the Procurator's Act, we have the general supervision of the Constitution of Ukraine. And in order to adopt the Procurator's Act, we need to change the Constitution first and remove "general supervision." That's why we can't combine the adoption of the Procuratorial Act with the appropriate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u86	You can't combine the adoption of the Procurator's Act with the adoption of this law on the State Bureau of Investigation. Why? Since "general oversight" is enshrined in the Constitution, it's a long procedure to change acceptance of the Constitution. So I'm proposing to adopt this bill, and it's right on time, and it's allowing it to fight actively against corruption in the higher echelons of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, one minute to the government. Put the microphone in the government's bed to replace the minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u88	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! While supporting the need for the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation, it should be noted that there are many rules in the bill that should be removed from the bill. This also applies to the conditions of payment of work, which should be governed by the general law on pay and set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is also suggested that the law also amends other laws and clearly specifies the number of cuts in the relevant authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the number of which is envisaged for the establishment of this body, since no additional funding can be allocated. The bill also provides for a special arrangement of housing for six months, and these standards also need to be removed. If standards that are not subject to the regulation of the bureau itself are deleted, namely, the issue of social protection, the issue of housing and the issue of pay terms, this bill may, in our view, be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We discussed this issue in detail. I hope that when decisions are made, Parliament will support this law. Dear colleagues! The next issue we are considering is registration number 3048: the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (for the identification of internal affairs officials and the presence of special militia units and internal forces at peaceful meetings). Please, Moskal. None. It's a pantyhose. No, stop, I'm telling you again, colleagues, I'm from the committee, please, and the fact that the authors of the law, no lawmaker, has come to report. I'll just put him to the vote right now, let's give him two minutes. Or am I putting him to the vote right now? Please accept this law as a basis. Colleagues, even though the authors come and report on the law, they must be respected. On the basis of this, please vote. [[17:15:51]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The law's off. Please, I would like to ask the following colleagues, the next rapporteurs, authors, and so forth to respect Parliament. Your law is under review - please come and report at least. Just, you know, emotion is not enough to comment on this attitude toward parliamentary activity. The next question is 3818: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. Please, from the authors and committee of Dudka Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u90	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! I am pleased to present to you Bill 3818, which is aimed directly at preserving the lives and health of Ukrainians. Let me tell you a little bit about what this bill is all about, and let me remind you what it's all about. The main thesis of the bill is that medical devices for the treatment of AIDS, tuberculosis, viral hepatitis, cancer, these medical devices, provided they are registered in the United States or in the European Union, can be registered in Ukraine under simplified procedures. Why the European Union and the United States? Because they are countries with the most severe conditions for access to medical treatment. What does a simplified procedure mean? The simplified procedure is essentially that the body responsible for the registration of drugs will only have to verify that this drug is actually registered in these countries, as well as to verify the availability of the necessary documents, i.e. instructions for the consumer in Ukrainian language, packaging and control methods. Within 7 days, the competent authority must decide whether to allow, register or refuse to register. And the refusal to register can only be a incomplete package of documents or unreliable information in this package of documents. Another rule of this law applies to drugs used to treat orthopaedic diseases. We recently adopted a bill on this subject. So I'm not going to stop here in detail. I'm just going to say that once again in the European Union and in the United States, there's a practice that drugs that are used to treat orthodontic diseases are introduced into special ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u91	Allow the introduction to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u92	Thank you. are placed on a special list and can be applied without registration, since they are usually non-alternative and life-saving, truly vital to patients. What will result from the adoption of this bill? We're going to get what's going to happen in Ukraine with those drugs that didn't come to this day to treat patients who are seriously ill because of the complexity and bureaucratic procedure in Ukraine. We get these drugs, our patients get them. And we're also going to get an increase in the receipts of drugs that are designed to treat severe and socially dangerous diseases, and we're going to get increased competition between manufacturers of these drugs and automatically lower consumer prices. The bill was prepared by representatives of six factions of our Parliament, voted by the Health Committee and recommended for adoption as a basis. I also ask the Supreme Council to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up to discuss this matter. The Martínk People's Deputy, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u94	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u95	Please turn on Ruslan Zelik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u96	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! As a person with a higher medical education, I realize that the situation today with tuberculosis, AIDS, the disease called "viral hepatitis," it needs good treatment, a good and quality drug that can prevent this epidemic, which today is with tuberculosis in Ukraine, AIDS, it can stop. We will vote in favour of this bill and propose that it be accepted as a basis. The only thing I want to say is that as a result of simplifying the procedure for the registration of medicinal products that are registered in the United States and in the European Union, which are actually undergoing quality certification, which are good and useful for the sick. The only thing is that our domestic companies are also producing licensed products. So if we're simplifying the registration system for a foreign drug, a foreign producer, then our businesses are in unequal conditions with foreign companies. Therefore, we feel that it is imperative to simplify the licensing of drugs that are not produced in our businesses that can simply disappear physically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u97	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I think we can all just thank the authors for the initiative. The law is good. Our MP group will certainly support him. But I do have a few questions. First. How much is it, and what's the body in the Ministry of Health? Will it be controlled by any of the highest authorities as to how much this drug is really like it was written in an annotation? We all remember how our Ukrainian patients were treated with a drug called even the name of our country, "Ukraine," was licensed, and it came to the conclusion that it didn't work at all and that people who were onceased were spending a lot of money, and the drug wasn't working. Would it really fit that advertisement and that instruction that is there? I realize that licensing is very expensive because it is a test. It's a huge cost and a large part of the time, but the minimum reliability control, the appropriateness of the quality must be required. And this is especially true of drugs that go to oncology that are pain - free and contain drugs. I think everyone understands why. In the first reading of the law, we must vote. And then put these fuses on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give the word to Rosenku, the strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u100	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u101	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u102	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. Obviously, our political power supports this bill. But, at the same time, I would like to address you personally, Mr. Acting President of Ukraine, with an official request, and please consider my statement as a question of parliament. During the discussion of this bill, I was contacted by some ordinary citizens, by the way, from various regions of Ukraine, including the East, and asked to check the network of pharmacies, where prices have increased substantially recently, and several times, on basic medicines that ordinary Ukrainian citizens, mostly pensioners, buy. People don't understand why in one week, for example, a patch that cost 2 bracelets and 98 pieces, it started to cost 12 bracelets. People say, "Well, what do we have, a dollar, an bracelet rate of 40 dollars per dollar? Is he, like, 400 percent bigger?" That's the first one. The other one. Today, at this extremely difficult time, when we seek the support of Ukrainian citizens, we must take care of their health. And I'm asking you, Mr. President, to give you a mandate to the Attorney-General, to all checking, controlling authorities to establish order in this sector and to protect ordinary citizens and wallets from this apothecary mafia genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u103	Let us formulate this through a protocol mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister, personally: on responsibility for price policy in the provision of medical care to citizens. Please form this commission. Dear colleagues! We have the last speaker in the discussion of the matter: the Kurd of the People's Deputy, the faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u104	May I pass on the word to Roman Ilik, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u105	Please turn on Roman Ilik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u106	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency, Drogobikin. Dear Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs! Bill 3818 deserves to be supported as a basis. He needs substantial work to be done. At the same time, however, it does provide an effective and important means of providing medical supplies to all patients in Ukraine. With regard to simplified registration with medical devices. I think that this procedure should be simplified, as it is simplified in many countries, especially Georgia and others, which were undergoing rapid and, above all, effective reform. Clearly, this question will come against the lobbyists of the farmland and slow down, including in the session hall. At the same time, I think we need to take urgent steps today in order for the Cabinet of Ministers to put a bill into the room on how to settle prices for the farm. Since drugs that were already more expensive in Ukraine than in other EU countries, and especially in Russia and Belarus, have now become more expensive by 2 or 3 times. Clearly, this is an important factor that affects the purchasing power of the population in Ukraine. And that's why I think it's a very important question that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today should consider as the first and appropriate bill to bring to the walls of Parliament. About the bill. There's still regulation 3818, which says, from the committee, that this bill should be adopted as a basis. That's why we will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u107	Understanded the offer: Support the project. The Supreme Council will be able to determine this project during the vote. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next draft of the Act on Amendments to Article 13 of the Law on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on the Provision of Assistance for Education to Persons whose Parents Are Military Servants. Please, National Deputy Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich will report the law of 2246.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u108	Highly Deserving Fellows! Almost a year ago, the bill was passed by the people’s deputies Shipk and Kuzmuk. And the tragic events of our nation’s day have confirmed its need and justice. The aim of this project is to establish, at the legislative level, the right to bill by personal choice of speciality to state municipal higher and vocational technical institutions for training at the expense of state and local budgets for persons with one of the parents who was a military official who died or died without news in carrying out his duties as military service. It is also proposed to grant the right to exercise the predominant right of military licenses, increased military-physical qualifications, higher military educational institutions and higher education institutions, which have military teaching units under the conditions of successful examinations and compliance with other requirements of the following categories of persons. The bill was supported without notice by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Administration of the State Border Service, the Administration of the State Special Transportation Service, the General Directorate of Internal Military, the Department of State Security and so forth. The bill’s authors believe that its adoption will also enhance the prestige of the military service.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u109	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u110	and equal social protection for military personnel and their families. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee is headed by the National Defence, National Security, and Defence Subcommittee of Greenewecki Sergey Rafailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u112	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the commission of the Supreme Council, the committee at its meeting discussed the bill of colleagues Kuzmuk and Shiph at number 2246. As noted above, the bill has been drafted with the aim of granting an overriding, I stress, the right to account for the appropriate military educational institutions for persons with one of the parents as a military officer, and the right to be counted by law among state and municipal higher and vocational technical institutions for training at the expense of the state and local budgets, in which one of the parents was a military officer who died or died unconscious in carrying out his duties as a military service. The implementation of this draft law, according to the authors, does not require additional costs from the state budget. When discussing a bill at the National Security and Defence Committee, the committee agreed with the proposals of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and other state bodies on supporting the legislative initiative and by a majority of votes decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up to discuss this matter. The word is given to the People’s Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u114	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u115	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u116	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to point out that the committee considered the bill on April 16, 2013, and, regardless of political preferences, party membership, it was supported by the majority of votes. And if it hadn't been for these difficult events, we probably wouldn't have been able to look at it for a long time. So I think that this bill would have, I'm sure, should be considered in the first reading. The Ukrainian Parliament must provide all necessary assistance to Ukrainian military personnel, their families, their children, in order for our army to feel protected and to carry out its responsibility to protect the Motherland. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will vote in favour of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u117	People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Head! Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Our entire group unanimously supports the bill of our colleague Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Indeed, a year ago when he was being introduced, no one knew that his consideration would be so timely today. I just want to remind you, literally, two words for those who are watching the plenary today and listening to us on the radio, that the project grants children of military personnel who have died or are missing in connection with their military duties, the predominant right to enter higher education institutions for their own choice, not later than 3 years after receiving general secondary education. And in our group’s view, it is entirely fair to give this opportunity to children whose parents today give their lives for the benefit of the Ukrainian State, protecting its territorial integrity. The only thing we want to expect, all the national MPs, not just our group, all of us, is that the number of military personnel who give their lives for the territorial integrity of Ukraine isn't great, and these cases are still unique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u119	Thank you. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u120	My colleague, Vladimir Ariev, is so eager to speak that I have no power to refuse him. I give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u121	Please, Vladimir Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u122	Dear Head, the honourable ones are here! Of course, I support this bill and the whole package that we've been offered today. But there are practical questions. Yesterday my wife approached one of the mobilized reserve workers and said that he had been fired during his time in the military. And in this case, I can even call the structure that set it free -- this is the Kyiv branch of the Shrimping Company. As I recall, we adopted legislation that prohibited the release of military personnel who had been mobilized for service during the urgent mobilization of reserve personnel. And in this case, Ukrainian legislation is being grossly violated. I want to address you, Alexander Valentinovich, as Commander-in-Chief. Please give appropriate instructions to the Attorney General of Ukraine to check all signals very carefully, any information about the release of mobilized military personnel. Because people who come to terms are not so much better, who are fed simply, excuse me, salami and water, and give a little bit of Greek porridge, which lives and owes their debt to the Fatherland, in very difficult conditions they live, they are worthy to be protected by the State and from the adoption of employers. At this point, it's our mutual debt to them. And one more moment. We should pay great attention to the fact that the money that comes in on the 565 is still unblocked by the treasury and is not being used, and the army needs immediate equipment. Please, please, let us pay attention to this too. I ask you very much, Alexander Valentinovich, as Commander-in-Chief, to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u123	Honorable colleagues about money. They're unlocked, and even when they're used, the report should be published by the Ministry of Defense right now, in the near future. With regard to this issue, I ask that you define it as a protocol commission to the Attorney-General: to take urgent steps to prevent violations of the law, including the responsibility of the director who signed the release. We will not ignore such egregious facts, and the responsibility of these leaders will be. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue, and I hope that when the Supreme Council makes a decision, all factions will support the adoption of this bill by voting. The next law is 2277. The authors and the committee ask to be removed from consideration. And we are now considering Law 4402: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons (to increase the minimum pension for members of families of military personnel in case of loss of a breadwinner). Report by Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u124	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, a bill has been tabled for your consideration, which raises the dead soldiers' pensions. And I'm offering a very simple way out of this, although I'm sure it's not enough, but it's a first step to really give those people who died in military or peacetime the opportunity to give families with a loss of a breadwinner at least a little money to be able to exist. Although I want to remind you once again that today it's 949 dollars, it can't be less than that amount of pension at the loss of a breadwinner. But if you take a younger army force, and this is a private sergeant and a senior officer, take their salary, their bonuses, everything else, they get a 35 percent bonus, which is given by the Cabinet of Ministers at this minimum size. So we figured out one chief, all of his possible benefits, that he didn't have 949, he had 930. Clearly, he will receive a minimum pension of 949. So I'm going to propose to increase it so that it's not less than two defined laws the size of a living minimum, it's 1 thousand 898 dollars. Again, it is not the amount of money that a family should receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u126	the loss of a breadwinner. But once again, I want to reiterate that this is the first step towards the fact that the state will take care of such people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u127	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, the word is given by the Committee of the Greenewese Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted to increase the minimum pension of members of the family of military personnel in the event of the loss of a breadwinner and the establishment of social justice on the part of the State for these citizens. In particular, it is proposed to increase this size from one to two statutory minimums for those who have lost their jobs. The implementation of this bill, according to his author, requires additional spending from Ukraine’s State Budget of 71.5 million dollars a year. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office points out what needs to be clarified by the law: from the moment it is adopted, because the laws of Ukraine or their individual positions that affect the budget, reduce the budget or increase the budget costs, are adopted after the 15th of July, which is ahead of schedule, are in place not earlier than the start of the budget period, which is planned. Scientific experts believe that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made to him. The committee also supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the position has been understood by both the committee and the author. You don't need to talk about it? He needs support, doesn't he? I hope that if we vote, all the factions will support this project. Does the government want to say? Please turn on the government microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u130	From the Ministry of Social Policy, Ivankevich Viktor Igorovich, Deputy Minister. Our next position is to increase, not the size of the minimum pension, which is now limited, but to actually increase the amount of maintenance money. And I wanted to make it clear that this is 907,7 million dollars per year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u131	I don't think you have the exact numbers, you don't even understand what's going on. It is the pension of those who have died in the course of their duties, the loss of a breadwinner, that is, those who gave their lives for Ukraine. You've already counted a year later how many people are going to die in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u132	It's not just about those who gave up their lives, but who, even after losing a breadwinner in any other situation, including those who retired, who die, has the right of one of the family members to receive his pension after losing a breadwinner.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u133	I think it's during the second. Heard your position. During our second reading, we focus on keeping money and increasing the pensions of those who have died, protecting the Fatherland, and for their families. So, I think we need to be clear here, dear colleagues, when we're redrafting the law. The next question, the honourable national deputies, is 3614, 3614-1: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Development and State Support of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Ukraine. Two laws, I'd like the authors to report them immediately and we'll discuss these two laws together if necessary. Please, Oleg Grigorovich Lukashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u134	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! National Deputy of Ukraine Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich, 187 constituency, town of Hmeljnicki, "Fathership". Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Development and State Support for Small and Medium Enterprises in Ukraine (registration number 3614) was developed for the direct participation of business representatives. In particular, the bill generalizes part of the proposals made by companies operating in the city of Hmelnicky at a small and medium -sized business meeting in Ukraine on May 30, 2013. The draft law proposes not to impose restrictions on the provision of State support to small and medium-sized enterprises that provide rental accommodations of more than 100 square feet [100 sq m] and non-residential housing of more than 300 square meters. Nor do these restrictions extend to small and medium-sized enterprises, whose debt to the budget, pension funds, and social funds is due to force majeure. The bill defines the annual total amount of financial support from the State budget for small and medium -sized enterprises and facilities. It will make up at least one percent of the total expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget and the local budgets, which are proportionally distributed between the administrative and territorial units in order and in the manner defined by the government. In addition, the draft law refers to the facilities of infrastructure to support small and medium -sized enterprises in the area of expert processing and manufacturing, as well as to the provision of exports to small and medium -sized enterprises. State support by ensuring the activities of these zones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u135	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u136	import substitution software. At the same time, it is proposed to detail that informational state support for the creation and provision of functional regional and local information systems also applies to printed and electronic media. I propose to adopt the bill in the first reading and as a basis. The committee has identified itself and suggests that we accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u137	Thank you. Please give the floor to the author of the alternative law, Paul’s Andrew Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u138	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! A year ago, the Law on Development and State Support for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises became effective, but unfortunately, many of the provisions of this bill are virtually not implemented. So you have a bill that proposes, inter alia, removing excessive restrictions, increasing infrastructure, financial support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and information support for them. It is suggested that some articles of this bill be amended. And I, as Oleg Lukashuk suggested, propose that at least 1.1 of the total expenditure of the State Budget General Fund be supported by small and medium-sized enterprises. So given what we need to do in small and medium-sized businesses right now, to support it, and this will lead our Ukraine out of the economic crisis, following the example of many European countries, please support both bills. Thank you for your attention. I want to point out that my bill agrees with the Association of Small and Medium Business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? There's no wish. Okay. From the committee? Please, from the committee. Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I understand the desire and response of my colleagues and Mr. Lukashuk, and Mr. Pavlovski and Briginz, who understand how important it is now to take steps of the state in part of the support of small, medium-sized business. I would like to inform you, my distinguished colleagues, that at the Committee of the Supreme Council on Entrepreneurship we literally heard a very serious scientific study two weeks ago in part of the important role of small, medium-sized business that it now plays in the country. And I want to tell you those numbers that will be very surprising to you. Because all governments, in all their years of independence, treat small, medium-sized businesses as flies that prevent them from working peacefully with oligarchs. But, dearly beloved, my family. In 2012, statistics show that 50 percent of the country’s taxes are paid by small and medium -sized businesses. And the VAT is 60 percent. And I want all of us to understand how much any action the state takes to build a small, medium-sized business is more important sometimes than social policy. I can give you an example. In America, after another typhoon, the government decided whether to give money to the affected citizen or business. And I decided to give the business. And three months later, he's got every dollar invested -- three dollars in the budget. I'm talking to you about how important every bill that our colleagues are to the Supreme Council about supporting this sector of the economy is. But from the committee, I want to tell you, in the coming week, we're going to put in a solid new bill on State support for small and medium-sized business. This is the committee's collective work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u141	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u142	collective work of the Committee of Enterprise, along with public organizations. And in this case these two bills are identical, they're very important. And I think you can take any basis, or you can take one as a basis by adding the authors, and this is normal work practice. We need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we are going to vote, but not now. The next question is 2012: the draft Law on Open Use of Public Funds. Please, Head Mikhailo Josephovich. Why does Mikhail Josipovich not want to report? Will You Report Together?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u144	Head Michaelo, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed in the 2012 Bill. This is a bill developed by a group of national deputies from various political powers. And the purpose of this bill is, as it were, to publish public funds -- public funds. The bill aims to introduce a new term: "public funds". A single web portal has been created for the quarterly publication of information on the use of these funds by the organizers and recipients of the funds: state and local budgets, state and municipal property operators, publicly binding government insurance funds and bodies of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Establish administrative responsibility for violating the obligation to publish the information listed, amend Ukraine’s laws on public procurement and on the specificities of purchasing in specific areas of economic activity. The bill, if adopted, will have an impact on the state budget. That is to say, in the case of adoption, in accordance with the law, on July 15, 2014, it enters into force before January 1, 2015. And in the case of adoption after July 15th, not before January 1, 2015. According to the Budget Committee's conclusions of 16 July 2013, the relationship that arises in particular in the use, use and monitoring of budgetary legislation is solely subject to the regulation of the Budget Code of Ukraine. In this context, the Committee on Budgets concludes on 16 July 2013 that some, the 2012 Bill and the requirements of the Code are inconsistent and stresses that, according to these requirements, the issue of publishing information on the use of budgetary resources is solely the subject of regulation of budgetary legislation. At the same time, Ukraine’s Budget Code does not contain requirements. State and municipal funds to the budget. And according to these, they spread, the requirements of this code, about how to publish information about how to use it. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u145	I've got the position. Thank you. The committee heads, please, Mikoli Volodymyrovich Tomenko, give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, this bill, prepared by a group of national deputies representing most factions, is updated by the fact that we are moving today, all ready to make the most of public funds. But I continue to insist that we have to go two ways here. The first way is to check the use of public funds or, as the law says here, public funds in the previous period. Because there's something we've forgotten about all the resonance cases, and the citizens are asking us what we called some general figures that have been stolen, stolen, but something so far no criminal case has been completed and no one is sitting on the bench. Maybe it was some kind of non-existent cost. I'll let you know that we've had a two-year decision with Sergey Mishchenk to listen to the use of state funds on the Euro for once, so we don't have a chance. We're talking. You know the construction companies didn't get the money for Euro today? There were no construction companies in Kiev; there were no construction companies in Lviv for Euro. Because they opened it, they cut the tapes, and people haven't got the money yet. Shevchenko has been prepared so seriously up to 200 years since his birthday that how much has been stolen is not known how much longer we will be returning then. So one position is verification. The second position is still an inadmissibility. That's why the bill allows for maximum control as soon as these funds are used, who wins the tender, what's the annual plan, what's the position, what's the use. At the same time, there are a few moments. Obviously, the bill will have to be passed on in the first reading, to see if the terms are met. Here we use "public funds" in the law "state funds." There is a position when it becomes effective: it is likely that since January 1, 2015. In any event, a democratic bill and it will have to be voted on as soon as we get together in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u147	Thank you for the information. I realized that the whole Parliament wanted to support this law. Dear colleagues, now perhaps the star hour of Mishchenka Sergija Grigorovich, because we have just approached, I ask you to listen to him immediately to report 2 laws: on amending, inter alia, the laws on inheritance formation and amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for inheritance taxation). Immediately, two laws will give him an opportunity to report. What, are we voting now? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u148	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Well, finally in five and a half years, maybe today we'll talk about it, and next week we'll vote. First of all, I want to thank all the factions that support this bill, who on every Conciliation Council really asked questions to ask it. And today, unfortunately, we won't be able to vote, but hopefully we will vote. I am grateful to the Minister of Justice of Petrenko that he is currently in the position of not corporate interests of the Ministry of Justice, and he really wants to change people's lives for the better, so that they don't spend thousands and thousands of dollars in their family pocket. Moving on to the bill. Today you are all given a chart. Two positions that were aligned with all factions, with the Ministry of Justice, where we found consensus and where on paper we have votes to adopt this bill. The first position is that, at last, citizens who inherit, receive an inheritance, these are the first successions of heirs, the second series of heirs, and those who inherit property under the right of representation, should not go to assessors and evaluate their property. Who's talking to them so our citizens know? They're kids, they're married, they're parents. This is the first line. Second line: siblings, grandparents And inheritance by right of representation is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u149	Let me finish. And immediately the second law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u150	Yeah, they're grandchildren and great-grandchildren. It immediately comes into force, we agreed, and immediately these standards will work. The second ingredient is that a person will have an alternative, or go to a notary, or go to a pickle in the head of a pickle. These positions will, with an agreement with some factions and the Ministry of Justice, and this makes sense, will take place on January 1, 2016. Why? Because it doesn't make sense now to teach the heads of the bulwarks that will be redesigned in 2015. Because you know that notary training, it's necessary for him to do these notary actions, and now we're doing it over the course of the year. Therefore, it is necessary to teach the heads of the bulwarks, authorized persons, in order for them to have the right to do so. So the new composition of the heads of the bullads -- they'll learn, the corresponding archives will be created, the preservation of these notary inheritance cases, and then they'll already be, as an alternative, doing these notary actions. So a person has a choice, either to the notary or to the head of the silage. But the main thing is, right after this law is passed, regardless of whether you live in a city or in a village, you're the heir that I counted, you won't go to an appraiser to assess property. The second bill, which is next, says that if we take this one, the first one, it's clear that where there's no estimate, there's nothing to take taxes from. Today, for the first line of heirs, zero bet, so we're putting in the next law the same zero bet for those categories -- second row and grandkids -- also zero bet. And I agreed with the recommendations of the Profit Committee and the Economic Development Group that from this bill, we should immediately adopt it as a basis and as a whole, delete the gift rule so that they remain taxed in the same way as they are now. Then it will apply only to inheritance taxation and nothing else, and then we can immediately accept it as a whole. So hopefully in the next sessional week or when we get together, we're going to adopt these two laws and finally make a huge difference to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? Do you have a wish? If there's a wish, let's write it down. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Vitto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u152	Pass it to Furman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u153	Please turn on the microphone of People's Deputy Furman. We will continue to work until this issue is resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u154	Alexei Furman, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Generally speaking, society is very logical that we have united the discussion of Law 4281 and Law 0985 into one. As far as Bill 4281 is concerned, we can support it in this way. Because it is during my stay in Winnitzkin that the issue of undue parental inheritance payments is constantly raised, especially in rural areas. In order to enforce the inheritance rights of a notary to a village house, it is necessary to pay a tax on the income of a natural person several times as much as the cost of the house itself. And the paradox is that the owner actually buys his own house, so 70 percent of the inheritance itself is not shaped. Moreover, part of the property is not inventoryd at all and does not register property rights that make it difficult to produce inheritance rights. So this bill, 428, needs to be supported. And as far as Bill 0985 is concerned, of course it's very necessary, it's on time today, because we know that residents of rural areas take turns in a few days at night to the district notary to form their own property. However, to my conviction, acceptance in this way will cause great difficulties with its implementation in practice, as the issuing of a certificate of the right to an inheritance will be carried out, as stated in the law, authorized by the official body of local self - government. This is usually the secretary of the village council, with such powers of secretary laying the groundwork for corruption risks, since the law does not set any qualifications for such a person. Therefore, such experts should be persons who have legal education, since it is necessary to give a legal assessment of the documents submitted for the formulation of an inheritance. This is the first time. And secondly, we also need to have knowledge about work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u155	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u156	The works of multiple registers, i.e. to further register ownership of an inheritance. It follows that in the rural, village council, additionally, the appointment of a person in charge of the work with the formation of an inheritance is to be introduced to a certain legal education. So, society, I propose that we take this into account and adopt this law. Thank you for your attention. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u157	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Tomenko. For the stenogram, I'm going to fix it: there were violent applause. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u158	I know at least three national MPs who have been sore about the matter, including Sergio Mishchenka, Mikola Tomenka, and Vladimir Yavorowski. And I have no reason not to give a word to my colleague, Vladimir Yavorowski, who will justify our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u159	Please turn on the microphone, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u160	My colleague, Mikola Tomenko, forgot to mention the name Ivan Grigorovich, so I am adding. Well, they say whoever's fighting can lose, whoever's not fighting has already lost. I'm really pleased to say that Sergio Mishchenko chose this bill. And he proved how to fight for the bills. As many times as he did, some even laughed about it. But it really is important and necessary. His yet small victory, which is included in the agenda and we are discussing, but the final victory can only be when, of course, we vote for it. He is indeed very painful, especially for our common poor agriculture, with his unemployment, with his poverty, with his hopelessness, and so forth. Parents die, and very often it means whether or not a son passes through that inheritance in the first row or sometimes even in the second row. This is a colossal problem. They're trips, they're bribes, and she dumped this one. The formation of an inheritance has, of course, left enormous problems: both financial and moral and corruption. As a result, I am convinced that this bill must be supported — it is very much needed. I only have one thing, Sergei. I have one such warning, and I am convinced that this bill is not used by our peasants at all. I say again, we'll support "Paternity", this bill. And those fugitives who made their way to the heel will benefit, and today they are sitting there on the Rubble Roads and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u161	Let me finish. It's a very interesting thing about Ruble Road.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u162	Let's say they're not there right now, they're going to do everything they can to shape them, and they're not going to make a penny. For someone else and not a penny to pay for the budget. We have to think about something. I don't have an answer right now, I'll be honest with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u163	Please give the floor to the People’s Deputy Philippenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u164	Thank you, Mr. Head. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. In fact, Bill 0985 is, you could say, damaged in this session hall, it's not the first time that it's ever been introduced here, and I don't remember so many more heated discussions that would go through other bills that have been introduced, well, I don't know, four or five times. And so far, as Sergey Grigorovich has already reported this bill. It can really be said that it is consolidated with positions, thinking not only of the national MPs. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine was involved. And about everything that's been said, about all the warnings that should be taken into account if we pass on the right to inherit a village, to the heads of the village council -- all of this is, in principle, taken into account now in the body of the bill that we are discussing today in the second reading. All those qualifications. All the necessary minimum that the village council, such as the quasi-notary office, should have -- all of this is provided for in this bill. It is clear that the bill will be supported by a group in this drafting, because it will really make it easier to form an inheritance in the countryside. It's going to simplify it for those people, for those types of people who live in the countryside right now. Again, with this bill, there is no doubt that there is a 4,281, which is now being listened to in the first reading. He eliminates those differences, especially the zero tax rate, which was said that someone should not pay, even though he is not in the first row, he is not a father or a mother. So, for example, not residents who don't live in Ukraine. This is the law 4281, it removes this disagreement, and that non-resident will pay the tax, and he will pay the tax in the Ukrainian budget. Therefore, this bill is also important. They are connected, and I ask them to support all the halls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? From the government, please. Put the microphone in the government box.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some remarks regarding Bill 4281. I want to point out that in this case, the point is that the zero rate of inheritance is not just about real estate and houses in the village. It sets a zero rate on any inheritance, corporate assets, securities, money, and so on. In this case, in our view, the spread of zero inheritance tax, the creation of remote capitals, well, is not quite right, especially in terms of severe fiscal deficits. So we're still proposing, we don't support the zero rate position. We agree that the author has agreed to remove the zero rate of taxation of gifts from this bill. But inheritance taxes on special preferences, for example, where this is a separate house in rural areas and so on, should be decided somewhat differently from other tax codes, rather than by setting a zero rate on all property rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, I think there's a format here. When we talk about houses, these could be buildings built by 1990. I mean, I think there's a format here for us to work out this law. And they really didn't benefit those who have the mansions and those who have the stock at enough serious expense. So I am convinced that there is certainly a basis for upholding the law. The only thing that is needed, not in general, but in the first reading, is that these nuances should still be taken away when we receive them as a whole. No objection, dear colleagues? There's no objection. There is a proposal then to also include this law in the package when we vote on making decisions on the issues under discussion. Dear colleagues! I thank all the deputies who have worked courageously today for their constitutional responsibility. I'm asking us to lock down all of these deputies. And we'll talk to others hard enough. Thank you for your help. I, my colleagues, am closing the session. And I declare that the next meeting of the Supreme Council, the plenary meeting, I'm sorry, I'm wrong, I'm closing the plenary session today. And tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Good-bye.
