ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and start the registration of the national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[10:04:25]] There are 260 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Traditionally, my fellow officers, I inform you that today is the birthday of the national deputy Kucheruk Mikoli Gerasimovitch. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that the Central Election Commission has already practically calculated the results of the vote through electronic protocols. And after 100 percent of the electronic protocols have been processed, 54.7 percent have won. Let's welcome him with a victory. [[Applause]] And you and I have had the opportunity to consult, more faithfully, the Conciliation Council with the leaders of MP groups and factions. We agreed to listen to the head of the Central Electoral Commission today. But we held consultations with the CLTC, and we asked the Central Electoral Commission to summarize the final results of the vote already on the wet-print protocols and have already informed Parliament on Tuesday about the final results of the vote, on the final results of the presidential election. In addition, you know well that the elections in Kiev have also taken place, and Kyiv has a new head that our colleague Vitaly Klitschko has become. Let's welcome him, too. [[Applause]] Another piece of information. I had a conversation this morning with Arsenius Yatsenuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is on an official visit to Europe, where there are sufficiently complex negotiations concerning the energy security of our state. And the Prime Minister is asking for a report on Ukraine's energy security on Tuesday in parliament. He needs the support of Parliament. And I, my honourable colleagues, hope that you also support the proposal to hear the Prime Minister on Tuesday with a report on Ukraine's energy security. Dear colleagues, you and I have the decision of the Central Electoral Commission, and I inform you that on May 21, 2014, the Central Electoral Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ganchukov Alexander Kostinović, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-mandated constituency constituency included in the election list of Ukraine's Company under No. 34, in accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, Ukraine's National Deputy makes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Konstantinovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u2	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters of Ukraine! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I also inform you that according to this statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Oksana Mikolayovna, from the Communist Party's deputy faction. Dear National Deputies, during the Conciliation Council with the leaders of MP groups and factions, were questions to the Ministry of Education. And we invited Mr. Queet's Minister of Education to inform the Supreme Council about the order of admission to higher education institutions in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Because there are serious problems with the teaching of our children in connection with acts of terrorism. On the rostrum, respected colleagues are invited to the Minister of Education and Science Kvet Sergey Mironović. And I'm asking the secretariat to put a broadcast on the street. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, there is an external independent evaluation in Ukraine each year. It's organized in such a way that we have two sessions. This year, the first session to conduct an external independent evaluation throughout Ukraine begins on June 3 and ends on June 27. The second session begins on July 1 and ends on July 15. I mean, no matter what happens now in Ukraine, we don't have any change in the organization of external independent evaluation. Given that we have extraordinary events in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas, we have an anti-terrorist operation and our citizens have major security problems, particularly with regard to the graduates of schools, the Ministry of Education and Science has decided, together with the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education, to conduct the ZNO in the second session in Donetsk and Lugansk. This does not mean that this year alone, for our graduates in Donetsk and Lugansk, a second session is being organized. The so-called second session works for the whole of Ukraine because it's thought out and it's always counting on that there might always be some extraordinary circumstances, personal circumstances in the graduates of schools in any region of Ukraine. This also means that those graduates who attend the second session of the DNP have the same rights as those graduates who attend the first session of the DNP. So there's no discrimination against our graduates. In addition, we have some questions from Donbas about whether or not they will really be discriminated against. In view of this, we believe that it is very important to give graduates, parents, our civil servants, as well as journalists more information about external independent evaluation. So the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Ukrainian Centre for Quality Assessment of Education, has already held two video conferences with all the regions of Ukraine, and all the government services, all the ministries of the department responsible for conducting the external independent evaluation, have participated in these video conferences. This is a clear conclusion from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Security Service and the State Department that they cannot guarantee security in Donetskina and Lugansk if we organize an external independent evaluation for them now in the first session. So we're moving for these regions for all the graduates to the second session. I also want to let you know that today at the second hour of the day we're going to have a third video conference with Donetsk and Lugansk. And in Donetsk and Lugansk they will be able to participate in this video conference of over 100 people in each region, there is a possibility. So for all the teachers, parents, journalists, representatives of the public -- they'll all be able to participate in the video conference today, and we'll give them all the information they need. Dear colleagues, I will finish and gladly answer all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's ask factions about the Minister of Education and Science. Please record from the faction. I see hands that have raised the national MPs. Please, National Deputy Zelik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u7	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u8	Dear Minister. Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Now, in Crimea and Sevastopol, there's an extremely difficult situation for graduates of Ukrainian colleges, because we understand very well that the invaders are not able to get a Ukrainian diploma for our graduates right now. And so the question is, tens, hundreds of calls every day come to me from Crimea. And two basic questions. Can criminals who are unable to return to their homes now be allowed to compose firecrackers? That's the first question. In the continental Ukraine, can they be allowed to hold? And the second question. Can there then be an exchange of diplomas that they get under Russian Ukrainian standards because they don't want Russian diplomas and they don't want Ukrainian diplomas? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u9	Thank you for asking. It's about the handlebars. We deal with these issues individually. And that's why I'm asking you to direct them to the Ministry of Education. Each question will be dealt with individually. Why is it not possible to fold the handle? Because, in fact, according to the information that the Ministry of Education has, the biggest problem is the issue of issuing diplomas from the Ukrainian model. We've solved the maths for the high school graduates. They can all get into Crimea. But university graduates don't have that option because they don't have a choice, they're not allowed to do it in Crimea. So we made such a decision that they would be able to obtain diplomas from the Ukrainian model in the Hersonian and Mikolai oblasts. To do this, they must present their Crimean diplomas with this year’s Russian model. Following a Russian diploma, we will be issuing a Ukrainian diploma, a simple procedure, and this issue is removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u10	Please turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u11	Dear Minister, can we demonstrate that Kiev, the center of Ukraine, understands and sympathizes with those hundreds of thousands of Donbas children who are placed in such unequal conditions? And can we make an exception and just release them at all, not in the second stage, as you said, but in general free them this year from the ZO and give them a perspective like an exception? It's going to be a nice gesture, and it's going to be an understanding on their part that someone here in Kiev cares about them and cares about them. Is that even possible, please say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. And of course, we're ready for all the exceptions that we can only make. So it's just the first step we're going to suggest is putting the ZNO in the second session. We hope that the situation will be better. If it's not better, we have a third and a fourth step, and we're ready to keep going. And, of course, I would like to emphasize, none of the graduates of Ukrainian schools, wherever he goes, whether in Kiev or in Donetsk or in Lugansk, will be discriminated against. We're ready for this, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u13	National MP Tomenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u14	Sergey Mironovich, I have a question of this order. We understand that we need to put everyone at the same level. And I understand that the Ministry of Education needs to be extremely active in working with law enforcement. So what cooperation do we have with the police, especially the local authorities, because it's extremely important? Second position. Will you prepare a different test substance if they pass later in order to safeguard honesty and justice for all aboriginals? And the third position. We read a lot in the press about the misuse of the COD during the days of Dmitri Tobacco. Is there an investigation? And what are the results of such an investigation? Have these materials been confirmed in the media that Ministry officials have influenced the course and nature of independent testing?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u15	Thank you. Mr. Mikolo, I'm very sorry, the first question you wouldn't be able to repeat is the first question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u16	Turn on the microphone, Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u17	Mr. Sergio, I meant whether the Ministry's coordination with the police and law enforcement agencies is in place today, especially in the region. Because it's understandable that you need to know and cooperate with them today in order to be afraid to prove the materials and confidently carry out this test if it's an opportunity to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u18	Yes, thank you very much. And, of course, we have full coordination and cooperation with all law enforcement agencies and other departments besides those you called special forces. And it's because we have their expert conclusions that they can't guarantee in the first session that our graduates, their parents and their teachers are not safe in Donbass, that they can't keep the secret of the tests, and that's why we decided to transfer the N.O.O. to the second session. So this coordination is, and we had two joint meetings at these video conferences. It's about your third question. There is no such confirmation that the Ministry was involved in conducting an external independent evaluation. But we have such expert testimony, we've studied this question, that from year to year, let's say, in certain regions there are, in different regions, I want to emphasize, there's a lack of quality, that's in estimates, in positive estimates for testing, and then in the first session. Such inadequacies are, but they're traveling from region to region, so today I want to say that there's no reason to say that the external independent evaluation in Ukraine is corrupt. There is no such reason. And your second question was about the tests. We're prepared, we've got some testing algorithm, and so, of course, if we have a place to intervene in the secret of the tests, we have options, we've got back-up tests. So both secrecy and procedures, all procedures will be preserved. So this case is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u20	Thank you, Mr. Head! People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. Certainly, Mr. Minister, we support this concern and share your concerns about the admission of children who graduate from school to higher education institutions in the Luhansk region, in the Donetsk region, and in this you will find our support, in the full composition of our group. The question I want to ask you as a minister is about teaching both in the Donetsk region and in Luhansk, and it's about learning across Ukraine. The point is that the media recently spread information about what you're trying to do, you have, let's say, ideas to go back to 12-year-old education, which, for example, in 148 districts, in rural areas, I found a pretty strong reprisal among both teachers and parents. Because rural schools don't even have 11-year-old materials. And parents can't feed at school for 11 years, not that 12. Please give us the answer and the answer to Ukrainian citizens, are you going to go to 12-year education or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u21	Thank you. Thank you for asking. And I want to say that this is a question, it needs conceptual discussion, it needs security, it needs advice and it needs to talk to our students, it needs to talk to experts. And it's not a matter of today, and it's not our priority. So I'm asking, how do I say, not even put it on the agenda. This is a particular professional matter that should not be political. That's why we're not doing this right now, and we're going to go back to that when the situation is favourable. And then, I want to emphasize that any decision in secondary education will be made only after the meeting and after consulting our education staff. So we're not going to bring any directives down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u22	Thank you. People's MP Zuravsky, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u23	Mr. Minister, it's very good that the Ministry of Education and Science has foreseen the transfer of the UNO to the second session, which is the right decision. But let's imagine for a moment, if, God forbid, you fail to localize the situation, put order in the regions mentioned above, you have to predict that VUZ graduates. The graduates were not discriminated against. And I think it would be quite appropriate to hold an additional session for the students of the schools of Luhansk, the Donetsk region. What do you think about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. I've already said about what we've foreseen, and this third session, as long as it can be held directly at universities where they're going to enter. So that's what we predicted. And I want to emphasize that we are ready to take any unusual steps to ensure the interests of all graduates of schools and that no one is discriminated against. So this is what we predicted -- the third session right here in the universities where they're going to enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u25	Thank you, Sergey Mironovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the issues that have been brought into the agenda of our meeting. And now I have an application for consultations. I'm going to the initiators -- the Freedom faction -- have to take a break or make an application? Just a statement, I understand? Please, Your Honor, a statement has been made regarding the consultation requested by the Freedom faction and the Strike faction. And we're giving the Freedom faction a chance to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u26	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We're demanding the immediate arrival of representatives of the Ministry of Defense with a report on what's going on in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Because when we meet with the mothers of the 95 military brigades, we've been told that we can't be compatible with the performance of our duties, because, first of all, we're not equipped with combat equipment, and we know that very well, we're closing our eyes. There's constant adjectives, there's always a lie, there's a lot of bronze vests, there's Kevlar helmets, and so on. Next. The funniest and most tragic thing that turns out to be military 95 brigades are being trained in the Broad Liman in the Mikolai region. And they don't appear to be fighting in the ATO area. So, excuse me, how do our boys fight?Oh, my God! How do our guys get killed there?Oh, my God! What comes out of this? The fact that these people are not part of the fighting. Next. The rotation. No rotation. People are three months away. Sorry, even in the most difficult times of World War II, there has been a change in the fighting parts, because there is moral fatigue, there is physical fatigue, and people need to go in and rest. After that, we have ours. There's no one to replace the 95th Brigade. And it's not just 95 brigades. And 30th and 26th. There are no people! Excuse me, where's the mobilization that was announced?Oh, my God! Where are the people who were called into the army?Oh, my God! Are they ready to fight? What is their condition? Next. There are no normal living conditions. People sleep on the ground. Scariest! Injured in hospitals. They are diagnosed with either acute respiratory disease or something like that. Excuse me, Your Honor, where are we going?Oh, my God! How do we fight?Oh, my God! Nothing's changed! Those generals were standing in front of Yanukovic a year ago, continuing to serve! They keep lying! They're still destroying our boys! The All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires immediate, immediate, I stress, the appearance of the Minister of Defense and the answers to all the questions! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Now, as far as I know, the Cabinet of Ministers is going on. I'll try to contact the secretary of defense to get him to the hall. But what I'm saying is that our military is conscientiously carrying out their duty and the results of the anti-terrorist operation, this confirmation. So let's: there's a problem, we have to solve it, but we don't have the emotion to block our ability to objectively assess the situation. I will contact the Ministry of Defense and find out, if possible, soon. I want them to come to the hall. Dear colleagues! We don't have performances now from factions. We finished the question. Let's talk about inclusion in the agenda -- I'll give you an opportunity to make proposals for inclusion in the agenda. And now, dear fellows, we have a review of the ratification issue. Registration number of draft law 0084. This is the ratification of the Memorandum of Relationship between the Government of Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the deployment of a special monitoring mission of the OSCE. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for us to consider this issue in a simplified manner. No objections? Please support the consideration of this issue by means of a simplified procedure. [[10:30:13]] For-164 Decision taken. Let me remind you, this is a procedural question. Please invite me to the Parliamentary Chamber of Deputy Foreign Minister Sergio Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! On March 3, this year, at a meeting of the permanent council of the OSCE, the delegation of Ukraine asked the OSCE to send an international observer mission to Ukraine to establish the facts. On March 20th, with long-term results, I want to say very difficult negotiations, all 57 OSCE member states have reached consensus and have decided to send a special monitoring mission to Ukraine. Groups of international observers work in eleven cities and areas of Ukraine. In individual regions, mission members carry out life-threatening tasks. The mission gathers information and informs the OSCE about the development of the situation in Ukraine. In Geneva, on April 17, a special monitoring mission by the OSCE was given a leading role in the deescalation of the situation. In order to create the right conditions for the mission in Ukraine, a memorandum was signed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 14 April in Vienna. The memorandum is temporarily applied from the date of its signature, except for specific articles relating to issues relating to the granting of diplomatic privileges and immunities and exemption from taxation. In order to take effect and apply regulations in general, the memorandum requires ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this connection, the U.S.M.S. prepared a draft of the relevant Ukrainian law, which is agreed upon by all relevant authorities without notice. On May 16, there was a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, which approved an order to submit a memorandum for ratification. Given the need to ratify the document as soon as possible, please accept the draft proposed Ukrainian law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u29	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please welcome to the floor the Martínk People's Deputy, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Alexander Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u31	Please turn on Alexander Shevchenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u32	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A memorandum of understanding between Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the placement of the OSCE Special Monitoring Commission was signed on April 14, 2014. In our view, we would need to consider this memorandum at a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But the committee didn't get a chance to look into it. I don't know, actually without a committee to look at it isn't exactly correct. At the same time, the Freedom faction fully supports this memorandum and will vote in favour. In line with this decision on voting, the main goal, we believe that this commission is actually contributing to reducing tension and ensuring peace in Ukraine and the stability of security. In fact, the special monitoring commission of the OSCE is one of the channels for bringing true information to the national authorities of European countries on Russia’s aggression and ethnic cleansing in eastern Ukraine. We hope that this mission will help Ukraine in particular and establish a centre for the protection of the rights and freedoms of the person in Crimea. Freedom believes that such a centre could be created in the Herson region with the involvement of other non-state public organizations, including particularly international ones. And they could defend the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Crimea, more loyally, Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u33	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u34	I meant that such a centre could help Ukrainian citizens living in Crimea to defend their rights through the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Herman Anna Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I think the memo needs to be supported. It's okay that the Supreme Council Committee didn't look at him. Ukraine is not to blame for the failure of the Supreme Council to keep up with the events, and the people of Ukraine are not to blame for the failure of parliament. It's just that Parliament has to work better, vote better, go to work, put in the mandate of its co-founders and move forward rather than get caught up. And today this initiative, this idea needs to be supported, voted on, because it's very important for both today and Ukraine's future.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u37	National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, some information is important. The number of observers – 210 persons, 40 States participating in the OSCE, a maximum of 500 observers, a budget of 22.9 million euros. The deployment groups, said the deputy minister, in 11 cities in Ukraine: in Herson, Odessa, Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv, Kharkiv, Donetsek, Dnipropetrovsk, Chernów and Lugansk. The main office is in Kiev. On April 14, this year, a memorandum was signed in Vienna. Of course, only the country’s Supreme Council, or Supreme Council, can ratify. And there is no doubt that we should ratify this memorandum. We need peace in the state! Our group will vote by an absolute majority in favour of ratifying this memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u41	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the strike faction will certainly support this memo. Because this is not normal today when Donetsk and Lugansk, according to the journalist's mark, are transformed by separatists and terrorists brought from Russia to Lugandu and Dombabwe. And we have to stop it, actually. It is not normal that out of the three thousand international observers who were in Ukraine in the elections, including the OSCE mission and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, these observers worked in all regions of Ukraine, except the Russian Federation's occupied Crimea, as well as in Donetsk and Lugansk, where just local princes who support this separatism did not allow local citizens, residents of the Donetsk and Lugansk region to participate in the elections. And so it is obvious that Ukraine today needs an increased presence here of international missions in order to stop this war, not declared, but being waged against Ukraine. But it's equally obvious, dear colleagues, that we have to do everything we can to ensure security today, including the missions of the OSCE. In fact, I'd like to take this opportunity to go to the Party of Regions, and you still haven't broken up your relationship with the One Russia, which is the party that is the provider of terrorism in Ukraine that voted in favour of the occupation of Crimea, which actually supports everything that's going on in Ukraine today, which actually leads to separate negotiations with arrows and beeps in the Donetsk region to release those terrorists. And that's why we voted a week ago on the Memorandum of Understanding and then there was a war in Donetsk and Lugansk. Only because no one brings to the local elite what the Supreme Council accepts. So let's not just vote the right decisions, but actually do everything we can to condemn terrorism and separatism and stop it both in the Supreme Council and in the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u43	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the Zarubinsky people's representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Head. These 57 countries mentioned by Mr. Deputy Minister of Acid, who are members of the European Cooperation Security Organization, are all European countries, these are the United States of America and Canada, and today this is a whole range of other Asian countries. And the fact that this decision to send a special monitoring mission to Ukraine was taken by consensus is a major benefit. We need to take advantage of that. Because a special monitoring mission, although it has a traditional, well, I would say so stereotypically called "monitoring," is clearly not only going to be a provider and gatherer of information, it will also be of a deterrence nature for some or other wrong actions on the part of certain citizens and other states. So I think this memorandum is subject to mandatory ratification, this law, more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the staff of the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national MPs can come to the hall, and we'll make a decision now. As the MPs enter the hall for one minute, I ask you to turn on the microphone to the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u46	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I find it hard to imagine who in this room might not vote in favour of ratifying this, well, super important document. We understand very well that with the presence of the new President in Ukraine, we have become only more legitimate today, and let's say a little bit, let's face it, but there has been a change in the stylism of the leader of the occupying country, who has occupied the east of Ukraine today and has opened up the Ukrainian Crimea from us. It is important for us to have an international eye in our country, a powerful international eye, that suppresses the terrible lie that is coming from the Russian continent today. Because of this, it is very important for us to have an OSCE mission here. In fact, by ratifying this document, we are introducing a final procedure, an appropriate internal state procedure. And this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, let's not stand in the aisles, sit down and support this very important bill of ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the location of a special monitoring mission of the OSCE. Please, Your Honor, support this project (I'm guessing, registration number 0084) on the basis and in general. Please vote for all national MPs. Please be supportive. [[10:43:25]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda for the day session. And I was approached by the people's deputies, and they asked me to speak in one minute about the additions to the agenda. Please, the people's deputy Kugel approached me first. I can't see her. Okay. National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, today the Supreme Council from all over Ukraine has been visited by people affected by the government’s policy of a floating exchange rate. People who took currency loans in 2007-2008 actually paid off their apartments, paid off their assets. And now, given the decline of the national currency, they have 500 dollars to take away their apartments and move them out. They turn to the national deputies of Ukraine, all of them, to adopt Law 4895 on the Transfer of Foreign Currency Credit Liabilities to National Currency. Today's request to include in the agenda and vote in the first reading, and send it to the committee to work with the National Bank with the government. I'm talking to my colleagues, and I understand that we have a strong banking lobby in Parliament. Dear colleagues, this is 4 million people being evicted. If they are evicted, they will come to those who do not want to vote for it. I'm talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u49	I got the offer. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Inna Hermanovna of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to pay attention to this question, because this is a systemic issue for Ukraine. According to the Constitution, Ukraine is a social state and according to the Constitution, the National Bank of Ukraine is responsible for the stability of the national currency. Today, because the government allowed money to be borrowed from people, the burden of changing the exchange rate was placed on the shoulders of only borrowers. At the same time, neither the National Bank nor commercial banks have any bearing on this risk. This is totally not in line with the constitutional principles of Ukraine’s activities. So I'm asking you to put this issue in the agenda. First, do not accept in the first reading. And go to the Cabinet of Ministers, and Nazbank to immediately make a working group to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u52	Thank you. It's a question you can't hide your head and make it look like it's gone. Four million borrowers multiply by three members of the family -- this is a huge social tension that can break in the next few days. And those in charge of the loans are also millions of people. Please take a decision today to sign a letter by the Head of the Supreme Council to Kabmin and Nazbank to create a working group on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Opanaschenko. I see a lot of hands and I'll give you the word, the important question, the honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! This is Bill 4895-4895-1. These are the currency rates at which the currency is proposed to be recalculated. One bill is 5.05, and the other bill is 8.08 as of February 3, 2014. So there are options for consideration and discussion. I have heard many suggestions that the banking system may not last. Yes, indeed. But people -- 4 million people alone -- can't ask the government to lower their rates, their numbers and their help, and the banks can. That's why this bill encourages banks to engage in this work and to demand, if necessary, from Nazbank, from the State, the creation of a working group, and take an active part in it. That's why I think this bill is necessary, and it needs to be adopted. And that's the first step towards lowering our foreign exchange rates in Ukraine. We declared that we would lower them. 15, 20, 25 percent is a waste of business.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u55	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Tajnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u56	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! In the last plenary session, unfortunately, the Chamber did not vote in favour of the inclusion of the daily draft Ordinance on ensuring proper medical care for participants in hostilities who were injured during an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine. This is Bill No. 4897. The point is that our heroes who are now fighting on the eastern front of Ukraine against terrorists would be able to undergo rehabilitation and treat under better conditions than they are now, especially in Fefania. There is a proposal today to bring this issue into the agenda, to vote it out and to give it accordingly to those who are fighting today for the independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. As far as 4895 is concerned. The faction of the All - Ukrainian Union strongly supports the introduction of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u57	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, listen carefully, is there a problem with exchange rate credit differences? There's a problem. Can they be resolved as proposed in this law? No, you can't. Since it is simply suggested to take these courses of differences, it is a matter of accepting a hopeless debt and writing it down to the bank’s capital. What it will be, I can tell you. These are today's deposit banks, today that have deposits, are at risk of systemic non-refundation of such deposits. That's what we have to do. Let's take it, let's put it in order, I've had a conversation with this initiative group on Monday to make a brynatek like this, and do it in Germany in 2007, in 2008 -- in the United States and in Hungary they did it. There is also a ban on reassessment of the pledge, and there is also a restructuring of the exchange rate difference for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u59	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u60	There's a moratorium on the alienation of mortgage assets, there's a precession priority when the debt is transferred, a priority for the borrower to buy that debt. So there's a set of measures that can solve this problem, but not as awkward as the law says.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u61	I see. Dear colleagues, I've already announced Alexander Volodymyrovna. Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u62	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I just went out there to see people, and I want to put some emphasis. First of all, dear colleagues, let's take the political part of this issue off. There are no parties here that love people more and love people less. All the questions, all the parties that are present in the hall and who are not in the hall, they all share the pain that these people are experiencing right now. There's an offer, we've been drafting this bill since 2009, but Yushchenko didn't support it. Ideology is, and now it's worked at the National Bank, taking a course of about eight, and then the difference of everything. The damage is distributed among three participants: the borrower, the bank, and the National Bank. Alexander Valentinovich, what is the most important issue now? Requesting you: understanding that there are several laws, and that there is no political speculation on this issue, to give now in the hall a commission from each faction to give a person by Tuesday to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u63	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u64	By Tuesday, together with Natzbank and the government, prepare a bill and vote on Tuesday on the first reading and on the whole, and now ask Mr. Kubi to personally ask you to put a moratorium on the sale of real estate, apartments, homes, because people are throwing banks out on the street. The law is to vote, to put on Tuesday a working group of all factions, Natzbank and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I think everyone supports the question exactly, which is a difficult question. The question cannot be solved by a populist formula itself, but it needs serious work to be done in order to resolve it, not just to declare it. That's why, dear colleagues, let's consult. First of all, with regard to the commission of the National Bank. I'm going to sign this commission today for your support on this matter in Parliament. To make a moratorium on the alienation of real estate, the apartments themselves, the ones unable to repay credit today in connection with the growth of the exchange rate. But I support the proposal to create a working group of all factions. Let's try not to go back to that question, so people on the street can calm down, hear that the Supreme Council is working in that direction. Let's put this issue in the agenda, and a working group on this issue will try to work it out or go out with a new law. No objections? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, please support, here are two laws: 4895, 4895-1 – regarding inclusion in the agenda. No objections? There's no objection. Taking into account the suggestions made by the people’s deputies that we have recorded in our transcript. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of these two issues: 4895, 4895-1 – to be further developed by the next week of the session. Please be supportive. [[10:55:14]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Well, please, by the factions. Region Party – 27, 63 – Fatherland, 5 – Impact, 31 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 16 – non-fractional 35. Dear colleagues, I have a request for you now. Let us support the newly elected mayor of Kiev. And he asks us to support and incorporate two draft laws among the first issues of inclusion into the agenda: this is Project No. 4940 and Project No. 4939. No objections, colleagues? Put them in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, this is Project No4940 of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code to ensure the effective functioning of the capital of Ukraine, Kyiv. Ask us not to discuss it. It's a day-to-day inclusion. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u66	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." This is, of course, a law that is needed because it prohibits removal from the Kiev budget and seems to be returning the subsidy to Kiev's capital functions, which is what they've been talking about for a hundred years, from one and a half billion and more of Kiev is being removed. But I have a question for the chairman. Alexander Valentinovich, the bills that go for Kiev, are in parliament for tens, but they are not included in the agenda. For example, a bill from the rehabilitation package that says that miskrad, execution and European governance in Kiev has not been included for two months. For example, my bill that legitimizes Chinese petitions: I've collected 10,000 signatures, you're putting questions into the agenda -- it's not included. For example, my bill on the next session of Kyivrada: I've raised 50,000, you're calling for an extra session -- it's not included. And here: yesterday – today stands before us. I mean, I agree, we need to look at it, but other projects need to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the proposal to form the agenda of the Head is made by faction leaders. Exactly. and committees, and the laws that were proposed yesterday are included in the agenda. I mean, I'm not making anything up. Therefore, honourable colleagues, is the offer No.4940 to support the inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:58:07]] For 236 Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. Act 4939. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (to restore the effective functioning of Ukraine’s capital city, Kiev). 4939, honorary colleagues. This is also related to the functioning of the capital. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u68	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This is a bill linking the Kiev City Head with the Kiev City Ministry. Well, it's a question that most people seem to support. But it's supposed to be. I don't, for example. I believe that this is a return to the day before yesterday, especially in the present specific circumstances. But. I have nothing against the author of the bill. On the contrary. This is a very competent lawyer. But this bill combines the question of the integration of the positions of the Kiev City Head and the head of the KMDA and the issue of parking, parking, evacuation, and blockers. So both the Admincodex and everything else, and the Capital Act is in one bill. That is, we can still vote in favour of completing positions. But for example, I personally object to the return of the evacuators to the city of Kiev. And for three days the car will be taken away, and then the will to listen to what's going on in these gangsta parking lots. That's why I won't vote for it. What if it's just a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u69	I see. Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I believe that this bill should be supported. For the city’s new head to be able to bring order to the capital, he must have full authority. And let it finally be possible to walk through the sidewalks, let the evacuators take those cars that keep the kids from going to school, and let them have the opportunity to make Kyiv a European city. I think we need to back it up today and give it a chance to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u71	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should vote, not as they think, based on their zero rating of some candidates in measure, but on how the Chinese vote for it. Not only did 55 percent of the Chinese people support Vitalia Klicka in her position as the city’s head, but they require a combination of two positions to enable him to carry out his duties. If one of the former candidates of measure who was not supported by Kiev has a point to the law, they can make changes to this law as we discuss it in the session hall. And so, please, it's not the ratings that have to be measured, the kyans have already targeted them, it's the work for the kyans. And we demand that we support this on behalf of those Chinamen who today want to have an order in Kiev and a union of positions. And the strike party is ready to take responsibility for changing the situation in the capital and bringing about order, including on the roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u73	Thank you. National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, first of all, we promised, especially the deputies who had left Kiev, to promise the Chinese that power would be the only one and that power would be effective. In this case we see more than half the Chinese voted for the new measure. So we have to do it now and vote for this bill not only by including it in the agenda but by voting for it. Because it's the will of the Chinese. Second, the parking situation. We still have a bill in the agenda today on the second reading of 2499, which can, in fact, order the parking fee and, with the possibility of pre-scribing those who park, excuse me, totally spitting on other citizens. In some streets of Kiev and other cities, it is impossible not to pass because the parking situation is absolutely terrible. And this is a very important moment for us to start moving in the European direction at last. We promised that to our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's give the Zarubinsky people's deputy, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I agree with Viacheslav Kirilenko, who says that here in one bill and many novels, it is true. But let us agree that if he, for example, does not want to vote for the evacuations, he will be able to make his proposals. But I think, for example, that the evacuations aren't just necessary, and they're just a warning to the hammocks on machines that won't let you pass fire trucks that won't let you pass "Quick Aids" that won't let you pass police cars when something happens! And that's the kind of hammocks you have to fight. And if there are facts that this is wrongly done by the evacuation service, it is not a subject of law, you know? Well, it's also about the reconciliation of positions, and more specifically about one person being responsible for the situation in Kiev. Well, it's a European norm. There are no other countries in the capitals of two people who are responsible for the same functions. That is why we should uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we, I remind you, are not discussing matters. We need to make decisions about, I'll remind you, joining the agenda. When we accept it in the first reading, we can work on the evacuations, on the whole. So I'm asking that we don't make any political exceptions here for a question that the Chinese really think is necessary. Colleagues, the request is now determined by vote 4939, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to restore the effective functioning of the capital of Ukraine, Kiev. Please support the inclusion in the agenda, please. Vote please, colleagues, please. [[11:04:43]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 24, 45 – Fatherland, 31 – Impact, 27 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 18 – Company, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, when it comes to the inclusion of the following questions in the order of the day, let us go in order of the day. 4907, this is a government draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Agricultural Insurance with State Support (for water bioresources). It's a very important question. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please support, Your Honor, 4907. [[11:05:41]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 25, Parenthood 59, Impact 0. Dear colleagues, if there is a point to be made, I ask that we discuss it before we put projects from the government. 30 – "Economic development", "North European Ukraine" – 30, 35 – "Freedom", The Company – 0, non-fractional – 24. The next issue (4908) is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of the privatization of property in an agribusiness complex (for free transfer of part of state property). Draft law, I'll remind you, government. Ladies and gentlemen, please decide to include the project in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[11:06:37]] For 210 The decision is not taken. By factions, please 3 – Party of Regions, 62 – Fatherland, Impact – 29, 30 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 20. Next question, dear colleagues. Registration number 4900 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 (to complete the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk). Please, Your Honor, support this bill to include it in the agenda of the day session. Please, Your Honor, back up. [[11:07:32]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 35, Parenthood 59, Impact 1, Economic Development 30. "North European Ukraine" – 28, 35 – "Freedom", Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. The next question is, Your Honor, the draft Law on the Cooperation of Territorial Communities. Project 4756, please. An important project that, I think, has no political emphasis, and is important for supporting local self-government. 4756 please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:08:25]] For 235 Decision taken. The next question is, Your Honorary Colleagues, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for the activities of the State Employment Service). 4808, I'll remind you, the registration number of this project. For the inclusion of it in the agenda, please be determined by Parliament. Please be supportive. [[11:09:01]] For 229 Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. Registration number 4680 is a draft law amending article 186-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Land (to simplify the agreement procedure of the draft scheme). Please, Your Honor, please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda of this project. May I remind you, registration number 4680. Please vote. [[11:09:41]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Next question, dear colleagues. Registration No. 4663 is a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption (as regards the obligation to determine the mental status of a person who claims to take office in connection with the performance of the functions of the State and local self-government). I think it's an up-to-date question, dear colleagues. People's deputies will be asked to identify the inclusion of Project 4663 in the agenda of our session. Vote your honorary colleagues. [[11:10:38]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Where anyone doesn't want to check. Region Party 9, Fatherland 49, Impact 1, Economic Development 32, 28, Sovereign Ukraine, Freedom 0, Company 18, non-factional 19. Dear colleagues, next question. It refers to the draft Act (registration number 4836) amending Ukraine’s antiterrorism laws. Please, Your Honor, please support the fight against terrorism and the inclusion of this project in the agenda of the session: 4836. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:11:35]] For-183 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. Only 183 national deputies were voted. I'd like you to turn on the factions, please. Region Party – 4, 58 – Fatherland, 26 – Impact, 31 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 12, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. Dear colleagues, however, I think we need to maintain such laws together, because this is too relevant for our nation. In the case of a proposal, we can go back to it again. 4878 is the next question, has such a registration number. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2014 (to restore the differentiation of all subsistence minimums and all minimum standards to protect the interests of low-income and socially vulnerable groups). 4878, please identify the distinguished national deputies for the inclusion of the project in the agenda. Please. [[11:12:51]] For-198 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: 34 – Party of Regions, 45 – Fatherland, 1 – Impact, 13 – Economic Development, 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 18 – Company, non-fractional 24. The next question, fellow officials, is the draft Law on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality (recrimination of local government decisions), 4903 is the registration number of this project. Please, Your Honor, decide on this question by voting: inclusion in the agenda, I remind you, we are discussing. May I have the floor to vote for the distinguished national MPs? [[11:13:50]] For 181 "For" only 181 people's deputies voted, no decision taken. By factions, please: 4 – Party of Regions, 57 – Fatherland, 22 – Impact, 31 – Economic Development, 15 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 17. I ask the faction leaders: Please organize the work of your colleagues so that the faction in its entirety decides on the issues under discussion. Please ask the next question, 4278, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (to improve the mechanism for adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation). Please 4278 is the registration number of this project. Please, Your Honor, vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. [[11:14:55]] For 202 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. By factions, please: 31 – Party of Regions, 56 – Fatherland, 1, Economic Development – 32, 27 – European Sovereign Ukraine, Freedom – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, the next question is the registration number 4792 – draft Decision on some measures to prevent extremism and separatism in Ukraine. An important question, dear colleagues. National MP Mirny passed the bill. Please support the National Deputies and support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of our session. Please vote (4792), please. [[11:16:04]] For 148 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: 1 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 56, Impact – 27, 4 – Economic Development, 8 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. My colleagues, I would ask that the coalition be determined firmly on the issues that need to be taken to strengthen our country's resilience. The next question, colleagues, (4889) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Education Act on educational guarantees for students, students, listeners, interns, clinical coordinators, postgraduates, doctoral and pedagogical, academic and pedagogical workers during their military service in connection with mobilization. Honorable colleagues, an important question, apply to all students, all teachers, postgraduates, PhDs, etc. Let's support the proposal of a profile committee, an education and science committee, 4889. Please, Your Honor, support this project. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. [[11:17:33]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. The next question, your honorary colleagues, is the registration number 4845. This is a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. This is a matter for citizens to be called up for term service in order to regulate this important issue. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of this project (registration number 4845). Please vote. [[11:18:18]] For the 180. "For" is just 108 people's deputies. The decision is not taken. Next question, Your Honor, No. 4834. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. People's deputies insist. This is a faction question, please. Region Party – 2.55 – Fatherland, 0 – Impact, Economic Development – 4, Sovereign European Ukraine – 3, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 9. I thank the Freedom faction for the position they are taking in voting for the issues related to the security of our country. Colleagues, next question. It concerns the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel who perform tasks under the legal regime of the state of war or during an anti-terror operation and their families. Dear colleagues, an important issue, registration number 4834. Please support this project. Please vote everyone. [[11:19:36]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 4, 58 – Fatherland, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 32, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. The following question, fellow dignitaries, relates to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards security and security of the national security of Ukraine). Registration number of this draft law 4354. Dear colleagues, please support this question. Please vote. [[11:20:27]] For-191 "For" is only 191 people's deputies. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 4, Parenthood – 58, 26 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 4828. This is a draft Decree on urgent measures to increase the professional level of law enforcement personnel. Dear colleagues, Project 4828, please determine how to get into the agenda. Please vote. [[11:21:18]] For 118 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 2, Fatherland – 59, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, the next question about inclusion in the agenda is 4837. This is a draft regulation on reducing the pressure of control authorities on small and medium-sized businesses in 2014-2017. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself as to the inclusion in the agenda of this matter. Please vote. [[11:22:07]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 37, Parenthood 60, Impact 2, Economic Development 14, Sovereign European Ukraine 23, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 18. Dear colleagues, we're not discussing these issues right now. I ask you, please, from the procedure after the discussion, we will vote, I will give you the opportunity to make proposals. Dear colleagues, next question. The draft Law (4838) on the cancellation of debts from taxes and from congregations (compulsory payments) of small and medium - size business entities. 4838, locating your attention, registration number of this project. Please vote, Your Honor, for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:23:18]] For-164 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 35, Parenthood 58, Impact 2, Economic Development 10, Sovereign European Ukraine 0, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 16. Dear colleagues, the next question is 4931 with the registration number. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interim Occupied Territory. This refers to the place of residence and the right to education, the honourable colleagues, clearly, I think to everyone, the content of the draft law. And I ask you to determine by voting on the inclusion of this draft law (registration number 4931) in the order of the day of our session. Please vote. [[11:24:37]] For 225 Expensive. I understand. Technical reasons? Technical. Dear colleagues, let's work more closely with technology and work properly. Colleagues, I'm once again putting this inclusion into the agenda, it doesn't need to come back. Integrating into the agenda of the day project, please sit in your seats and vote, 4931 is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (for the place of residence and the right to education). We'll support our citizens who are there. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:25:34]] For 229 Decision taken, thank you. The factions, please. 17 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 67, Impact – 30, 33 – Economic Development, 26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. Next question, colleagues, 4938 is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on prejudice (minimization) to have a negative impact on the stability of the banking system. An important issue is also related to the problems that we discussed at the outset of this discussion. Please, Your Honor, project 4938 (4938, attention!) concerning the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session. I'd like you to identify some respectable colleagues. Please vote. [[11:26:42]] For 227 At the border. "To" is 227. Decision taken. The factions, please. 31 – Regions, 50 – Fatherland, 30 – Impact, 30 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by national deputies and have been asked to return to the vote for Law 4900. Let me remind you, this is a change to the budget for the current year for the construction of Metropoliten in Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the national deputies to support this important issue, because it's watering the Metropolitan and it needs very real, let's say, work to stop this problem and not lose the Metropolitan in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Please, Your Honor, support this project (4900). Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:27:56]] For 252 "For" – 252 people's deputies voted. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have been asked by the national deputies. Now, take it easy. Support (4772) is a draft law on the inclusion in the agenda, a project to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy to ensure the activities of the People's Deputies in the conditions that the country is experiencing today. Colleagues, engage? Include in the agenda. 4772, please, Your Honor, please vote. It's a technical question, I think, not a political one. [[11:28:58]] For 260 Decision taken. I'm saying to the stenographer that this question doesn't need any more funding. Now, dear fellows, please, I'll give you a chance now. Oleg Pullibok, National MP, turn on the microphone, please. I'll give you a chance, Adem Ivanovich, to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! What I did earlier, I ask you to vote on the inclusion of the Bill – ensuring proper medical care for participants in hostilities (4897) and their treatment in Phoefania.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u79	Of course, we will now put the project in place. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u80	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues. We've just included you in the agenda (4772) for making changes to the status of the national MP. Taking into account the millions of losses our hotel has already suffered, considering that national deputies are unable to receive compensation for staying in a hotel, some of you are unable to receive compensation for passing to carry out their parliamentary duties. We need to deal with this technically. So when we passed the law, we didn't exactly write down the changes, when we were, as it were, reducing the ability of the deputies to use those or other so-called benefits, we allowed such inaccuracies that it would take months to form these documents. And I'd like to ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, let's take this law as a whole. You said it was a technical question, we'll solve it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I have heard the offer. Now let's finish this block, I see hands. Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk Mikola Dmitrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u82	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Alexander Valentinovich, today we have put into order the day's issue that people under the Supreme Council have demanded. I would ask the Fatherland faction to put the bill into the agenda, to vote (1145) on amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the non-admission of the rights of debtors and on the introduction of the bankruptcy procedure of a natural person. We're the only country that doesn't have a physical bankruptcy procedure, unfortunately. And that's why we have these problems. So we're getting out of a situation that happened quickly. But we need to make a systematic decision so that we have an appropriate institution that does not allow us to create similar situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kirilenko. Turn on the microphone. I'll give you a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u84	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." At least four very important issues have just been addressed: military duty, military service for the recruitment of citizens; guarantees of social legal protection for military personnel in the course of an anti-terrorist operation and their families; draft Act on Security and Guarantee of National Security; project on raising the professional level of law enforcement personnel; and regulation on reducing the pressure of control authorities on small and medium-sized businesses. This is mainly about national security and the success of an anti-terror operation. That's what I'm finding out for myself. When we have a neutral question, we have a coalition in our room called "Paternity," "Freedom," "BOCK." As a matter of protecting national security and fighting terrorists, another coalition is working: "HOCK", "Party of the Regions," the Company. And the vote goes either to zero or no votes. That's why I call for a hit to be determined by what you're in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I beg of you. I'm asking members of the coalition, let's not go into the hall to find out the relationship, and during the meeting, I'm asking respectable colleagues. Let us not find out about the relationship in the hall. National MP Herman, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u86	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mr. Head! I believe that now that there is a war and when soldiers lack even armor, ask any questions about any compensation for MPs immorally. I ask you to put this issue aside until military action is completed and peace is restored. That's the first one. The other one. You've done well that we've all put in the order of the day the question of the moratorium on evicting people from their apartments. But this will happen, Mr. Head, until next week's project, and the people from the apartments are already being expelled. I am contacted by many, especially the Levians, who are thrown out of their apartments for not paying off their debts and loans. I ask you, since you are still acting as President of Ukraine, to issue a decree prohibiting the eviction of people from their apartments for not paying credit for the Supreme Council's consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u87	My fellow Members, I would like to say that this matter is governed solely by law, and the President's decree does not regulate this matter in accordance with the Constitution. But I hope that this working group, which will be created by the MPs, will prepare this issue by next week, and it is from this issue that we will make objective, balanced decisions. Please, please, colleagues, on the proposals that have been made here. People's MP Roadside. I'm sorry, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u88	Thank you. Alexander Valentine's Day, please, I represent the rural constituency, and I'm already ashamed of people to watch and listen to Act 0985 "On the Heritage." Please, we ask you very much, put this law in place at last. He doesn't put much preference or pressure on the budget there, but he solves a lot of the problems that people face. And the second question is the Bill of People's Deputies, Timoshenko, on Living Minimum. Please stand up again, come back to him, we ask you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u89	What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u90	4878. And the inheritance is 0985.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's make a decision now. The first is regarding proposals that were not prepared by the secretariat today and distributed to the national deputies. It's a proposal by Mikola Catherinechuk, number 1145. I'm asking you, on Tuesday, let me give you the commission to consider this issue so we don't have to look at it in a voice right now. But we do have the opportunity to go back to the issues that national MPs insist on, particularly the question that we have considered several times before, and unfortunately, we cannot vote and include it in the agenda. This is about Oleg Tuggnibok’s project proposal, registration number 4897, for the treatment of victims in carrying out their duties as part of an antiterrorist operation. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support inclusion in the agenda of the 4897 project. Colleagues, there was an offer for faction leaders. I'm asking you to support her. Please, 4897 maintain inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, let's support it. Please vote. [[11:37:41]] For 206 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: "Regions", "Party of the Regions" – 2.66 – "Paternal Fatherhood", 30 – "Abrasion", 24 – "Economic Development", 29 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", The Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, this is about treatment. I'm talking to the hall, the ones who can't figure it out. Well, do we have any problems treating our soldiers? They are children in most of their different regions of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please, let's support this question. I'm putting the vote again, and I'm asking, and I'm addressing the Party of Regions, factions, too, to support it. Please, Your Honor, (4897) vote for everyone. [[11:38:42]] For 223 Colleagues! National MP Zuravsky, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u92	Dear brothers and sisters, dear deputies! Well, be human, please. You can't do that, you know. Discard the political manipulations and vote in favour of the project. This is about our people, our children who are wounded, about their treatment. Don't you get it? I'd like a reputable speaker put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Benjuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u94	Bogdan Benjuk, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. My card didn't work. I'd like to vote if I could.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u95	Colleagues, please, let's sit in our jobs right now. I understand we're going to uphold the law. Let us vote without any political slogans or vocal statements. I'm asking you to take your seats, colleagues. Let's support this project (4897) for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:40:09]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. [[Applause]] In general, let us vote, alas, dear fellows! I'm in a mood right now. Let us, in general, vote on this law. I'd like to ask you for a basis, in general, No. 4897. [[11:40:38]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you to the distinguished people's deputies. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, by factions. The factions, please. Region Party – 7, 71 – Fatherland, Impact – 32, 32 – Economic Development, 32 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 25. Dear National MPs, it was a proposal from the national MP of Zabotny regarding Project No. 0985. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's on. As for this project, it is included in the agenda. The question is only when we consider it, when the time is right. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! You remember that we had already considered it in our second reading last week. We did not vote because there were no deputies in the Chamber. I am confident that the entire session room will now vote in favour of this bill. I see Adam Ivanovich is ready to vote. I see that other deputies and factions are willing to vote. We have votes for him now. Why we're putting it off. And I want to say that the other one in the package is going, which we also talked about, is No.4281, which also applies to this law, because it's in the Tax Code. We then decided to vote on it in the first reading. So let's vote on this basic law, and then on the first reading, let's vote on another law. But there are voices in the room. Why are we putting it off?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u97	Sergei Grigorovitch, this is No.0985. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u98	Yes. But, Alexander Valentine’s Day, Minust asks that this law be edited, and I read one thing on the transcript. It's all over the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u99	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u100	The entire text of the law requires the phrase "inheritors of the first and second lines of law" and "or of the will, including the right of representation." So our law was "according to the law." Minust asked me to add "under the will." That's right. Because only those who are legally entitled not to value their property, but "under the will" we have not put up. That's why, I'm sure, Minust, I've offered it faithfully in order to include "under the will." That's why it's all over the law. And that's how you vote him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u101	Sergei Vasilovich, please! Dear colleagues, I will now ask the secretariat to prepare a package of these documents so that I can. When you read the second reading, you understand that there is a procedure. And after the break, we're right away. Calm down, fellows! I say again, they're gonna get me papers, we're out of the voice. That's a serious question. I'll put it on right after the break. Now we're going to look at the second reading. Please, folks. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, calm down, please. Calm down! People's MP, Kyde. They're going to make me a package for this. Let's not talk out of voice. Therefore, there are rights to this law. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u102	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs! Dear listeners, the TV set! Ukraine is now a state of war, and no one is a secret. Wars against terrorists fighting in eastern Ukraine against the statehood of Ukraine against the Ukrainian people. And unfortunately, there are people in Parliament's walls who use their parliamentary powers not for the benefit of the state, but against that state. And there is such a benefit to the Kings. We have enough members of the coalition present in the hall right now. And so I, Alexander Valentine's Day, ask the entire faction to include in the order of the King's day's decree that he be deprived of his inviolability and voted now. [[Applause]] And finally, to put a dot on the abuse not only of Parliament and of the entire Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, this is a matter that needs to be included. It's being considered on standby. Now, I'll give you a chance to speak. So, colleagues, the willingness of the Supreme Council to address this issue, we have a legal basis for doing so. At that time, I ask the secretariat to invite the Attorney General to the office to inform him about the matter. Please, the Secretariat, as soon as the responsibilities are in place, we can move on to the matter. Please, colleagues, National Deputy Herman. And I'm going to give everyone a chance to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that those who tear our state apart and take sides with separatism should be excluded from our ranks. But I believe that the statements made by members of the Freedom Party from the parliamentary rostrum about the shooting of Russian-speaking people have done more harm in Ukraine than a hundred kings, together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u105	Colleagues, I understand that this is called the Freedom faction and very serious accusations. Please, who from Freedom to turn on the microphone? Oleg Pullibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, well, it is not possible to continue to listen to this kind of nonsense that is now being heard by the representatives of the Party of Regions knowingly spread in this Hall to the entire Ukrainian society in order to provoke people and fuel international hostility here. We stand firm against such claims and against similar accusations! Because of this, we must clearly take advantage of this opportunity offered by the Rules. And if the MPs give the relevant false information on the air for the entire Ukrainian society, we have to vote in order to remove such deputies from the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u107	Colleagues, I'm asking you to go in the daytime. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, from the rostrum. Dear colleagues! On procedural matters, please Soboljev Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, Sobolev. What Mrs. Herman has just afforded is a direct inflammation of national hostility. She works directly on Russian television channels. I am confident that her performance will be broadcast on all Russian television channels today. And this is done for one purpose. That's why my offer is like that. Remove Mrs. Herman from the hall for false information and end this once and for all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I say again, colleagues, I address all deputies. We really can't miss things like this. Because there was no statement "Freedom," that you needed all the Russian-speaking people, there was someone. So, colleagues, colleagues! I want to say it again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Anna Mikolayevno, can you correct your information? Because then I'm going to put the vote on removing 150 votes from the room. The Freedom faction didn't make that statement. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] With the insistence of two factions, I put the vote to the vote. This is a regular issue of removing from the Hall for violating the Rules. Please make up your seat, please vote. [[11:49:36]] For-137 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Please. 0 – Regions, Fatherland – 63, 25 – Impact, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 5.35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 7. Please, the word of Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. Colleagues, everyone had the opportunity to speak, I give my word to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u110	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Alexander Valentinovich and distinguished colleagues! Who, fortunately, does not live in a hotel or read the laws, I emphasize once again. There is no change in the financing of this law. The cost of living in hotels is. The other thing is that now, in order for a hotel person to pay these costs, he has to write down a ton of paper. The law, on the other hand, suggests that the MP submits an application to the accounting office and says that please count the funds that I own as a hotel immediately as a hotel. Again and again, this is a technical question and I ask the national deputies to support it. Alexander Valentinovich, you're also the head of the Supreme Council, you know, and you understand, and you can reassure those who think this is about benefits. It's not a benefit, it's just a clarification. So please put to the vote and adopt the law that we have incorporated into the agenda in total 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u111	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, let's finish now, let's put the risks to the questions that have been included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, we are putting at risk the inclusion in the agenda. And now we have a block of issues related to the second reading of draft laws. But before we look at these questions, dear colleagues, I say again, we're not going to do a replica on the line. Colleagues, I've been approached by two factions who, "Economic development" and "North European Ukraine" are asking for a recess so they won't take a break and they're ready to announce their application. I invite the representative of these two factions, Lithuania Vladimir Mikhailovich, to announce the application. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u112	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, I am in the development of an emotional and correct speech spoken from the mouth of our fellow Peacekeeper. We are now discussing with you some very important questions that many people do not have at all. I think the key question today is how do we find an opportunity to overcome terrorism in Ukraine and at the same time preserve our people, and that we will not allow such a situation to happen, that we will try to appease people and calm women, mothers who are facing the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. As you recall, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made appropriate decisions containing recommendations, including rotations and the release of military personnel. What can be explained today when a weeping mother falls on her knees, with five children? And any references to the Ministry of Defense as against the wall. This man is not released from the army. If necessary, I'll show you documents, three young children, and it's impossible to scream at them for release. I realize that it was very simple for those who came to the army to mobilize immediately. Those who hide do not mobilize them. We have a million people who can be called into the army. We made a lot of decisions to encourage them. We need to work for the military, the military, the Ministry of Defense. No, they don't. So, come on, dear fellows, I'm asking the Head, after a break, that the Secretary of Defense be here to speak and tell you what the ATO is? Do we need to ask questions about other approaches? How can we protect people? How can you survive a military man who gets a liter of water a day for everything and everything? And make the right decisions. Listen to one of the mothers who would tell about the circumstances of the children. Otherwise they will all go and take the children, and we will have even more problems in Ukraine. Well, let's focus on that. Look, the mass of statements just now, the mass of the cry of man here, the misery of man. Lonely people whose last hope was taken away. This approach needs to be completed. And one more moment. We voted with you in Law 4785, which largely eliminates all these problems. There was a discrepancy with the amendments made, such as by Oxana Prodan. These amendments are taken into account. The 131 articles should now be voted on, Alexander Valentinovich, and the appropriate decision will be taken. We made the right proposals. Give the team to the secretariat, let them call you, you announce them, and we'll make the right decision. And I ask if we listen to the Minister's information so that we can speak to one of the women so that we can feel them, respond and make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, on behalf of the people's deputies who spoke as soon as the government had finished, I would like to invite the Minister of Defense to Parliament. That's the first one. Next. Colleagues, please calm down. Now, with regard to the day - to - day consideration. I'd like us to take a break now, we've got five minutes, we've got people's deputies, we've got a second reading to look at the issue of the friction, because the reporter, the head of the committee, has to leave. This is a draft of the Law on Metrology and Metrology. Yuri Mikolaiovich, Voropeyev [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll do it again. Calm down, fellows! We'll discuss with the Ministry of Defense, we'll give it a chance to discuss it. [[B in m in s a l in]] An inheritance? I said, right after the break, they'll give me a package and put me to a vote. Calm down! Right after the break, I put it to a vote, I promised. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u114	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! You don't understand me. We have at two o'clock a.m. a.m. a.m. a.m. committee meeting on the second reading of the bill on metrology and standardization. I'm asking those two bills to be transposed into the afternoon, and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u115	I understood the offer, fellow believers. Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone will object to us discussing metrology and standardization, it's important issues related to European integration, then after a break in the case when we make that decision, and when the committee considers them. Now, dear colleagues, in order to prepare the questions that the National MPs insist on, I need the tables for the second reading. We announce a break of 30 minutes, up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Please, Your Honor. I ask the leaders of the coalition factions to come to the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! Please sit down, we'll continue our work. I would like to remind you that we have agreed to invite the Ukrainian Defence Minister to brief you on the situation surrounding the conduct of the anti-terrorism operation and to focus on the issues on which the national MPs insisted. In particular, it's about calling on an army of people who have the right not to be in the army, so that we don't treat the problems of people who have lots of children or who have low-income families, who have nothing to feed families and one breadwinner, etc. Although, according to the information, I can tell you that many of those who are assigned to the Armed Forces do not have the information that the Supreme Council has passed laws that fully secure both jobs and wages and other benefits for our military personnel, especially those who take part in the anti-terrorist operation, particularly as a "Fighter of Action" status. So, dear colleagues, let's give the Minister of Defense five minutes and then ask each faction about the question. Please, Mikhailo Volodymyrovich. And, of course, the question was, Mr. Minister, about the financial security of the army through the use of money by the Ministry of Defense. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the Armed Forces of Ukraine are carrying out tasks to ensure that the borders of our country are intact. Most of the Armed Forces are located in defined areas where group defences have been created, some of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have entered the Counter-Terrorism Centre and are carrying out the anti-terrorist operation plan. With regard to the issues that have been brought to your attention, I must report that all forces that enter into the force of an anti-terrorist operation are fully involved in secret orders and carry out the task only in accordance with the order. The fact that military orders say they're on one of the ranges is a purely technical question. People are officially where they are, in combat order, performing tasks, and we're going to bring these people into the proper order of the law to the category of participants in combat. It's about funding the Armed Forces. It comes at the right time. But I have to say that we're doing a job that's designed not to be abused. Regrettably, such abuses are. Only yesterday, I was forced to order the removal of some of the officials responsible for the security of the Armed Forces from their positions and the transfer of their special cases to the prosecutor's office. Abuses are, unfortunately, numerous, but we keep them under control and do not allow them. All the tasks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are being carried out. As you know, at the start of the anti-terrorist operation, in fact, the Ukrainian Armed Forces had been dismantled by such a structure as the food service. It was eliminated a while ago. The provision of food for the individual and all the issues of rear care was handled by people who were far from it. In fact, there were no such trials that have now taken place in the hands of the Armed Forces. That's why these questions didn't stand out. In winter apartments and fields, food was more or less good. But the conditions under which the Armed Forces are now operating are the conditions in which our military personnel carry out the tasks in separate search directions, and there are completely different questions on the stand block that have not been prepared for those structures that have been responsible for providing food to our Armed Forces. So I thank you for the decision taken and appointed Deputy Secretary of Defense, who has fully led the vertical in which we are restoring the food service, restoring all the security issues, the comprehensive provision of our Armed Forces. In general, I have to say that despite all the trouble, the leadership of the Armed Forces, the General Staff, responds to all the negative, positive moments that exist. We go ahead, we predict clearly what might be negative, and we make it clear that the Armed Forces are doing the tasks they are tasked with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u118	I'd like to ask, Mikhail Volodymyrovich, nevertheless, questions about the demobilization of the military, which should still be, let's say, with their families. This is true of poor, single foster parents in families with disabilities, where there are many children. Please, on these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u119	This question is practically solved, you signed the document. And we've got about 5.5 or 6,000 of these military personnel, and we've got, we've already started the release.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the faction question. Please, National Deputy Greenewecki, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u121	Dear Mikhailo Volodymyrovich! Yesterday at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Committee, the first deputy chief of the General Staff reported quite seriously on the situation that had taken place. Please tell us what further normative acts are needed immediately to be adopted by the Supreme Council in order to ensure the best possible work of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u122	I thank the Supreme Council for having accepted all the documents that regulate the activities of the Armed Forces in this situation. There are several documents. The decrees to be adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Prime Minister is informed and acting as President. And we're literally in the next session, and now the documents are being negotiated in all ministries and departments, and we're going to put these documents on the stand. Thank you. We have no problems in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, we have a very difficult question, including the Cabinet of Ministers, to consider immediately the issue of double the cost of feeding military personnel. That's at least twice. In addition, we talked to the Parliament's committee of profile about. However, this is true of the paratroopers, the Special Forces, in relation to the significant, I emphasize, the increase in wages for those who carry out the fighting during the anti-terror operation. So it's not 100 dollars, it should be equal. And this is a matter to be settled. I think we're going to have a joint meeting with the Cabinet of Ministers to press this issue. And those who fight for Ukraine, who defend Ukraine with their lives, must receive a decent wage. In order to feel really, not just a hero, but a man who is respected by the country. Despite the difficult economic situation, we are obliged to do so. Please, Booger, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u124	Please pass on the word Bidiowka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u125	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u126	Please indicate what specific measures are being taken to ensure the security of civilians. Especially in Donetsk. I mean the cities: Slavyansk, Donetsk, Mariupol, where he goes to hundreds of people who have been killed and wounded. To what extent will warplanes fly over a million cities on a pregnant flight and terrorize the entire population. Quiet, first of all. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u127	Warplanes and helicopters will fly until the end of the anti-terrorist operation. [[Applause]] The Armed Forces of Ukraine are doing everything they can to ensure that no person carrying weapons is injured. If it were the other way around, Slavansk would have been ours for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, Pankevitch, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u129	I'd like to give the floor to Eugene Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u130	Please turn on the microphone of the Melnik People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Minister! I have specific questions and complaints about the discontent of the ministry, which concerns 51 separate mechanized brigades located in my hometown of Volodymyr-Wolinski, whose representative I am in Parliament as deputy major. I want to point out that today the mothers of the 51 mechanized brigade are covering the Yagotin Kiev route. Why? Mothers express dissatisfaction with unsatisfactory conditions as military personnel carry out their service. They take part in an antiterrorist operation, and they say that their children, their sons, their husbands are not exactly ATO participants. Next. As they passed through, they took part in the military activities under Volnovah without armor, and there was not enough normal food.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u132	Let me finish. Let's just get this thing over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u133	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u134	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u135	And that's why you have a question. Who will be responsible for these events that took place under Volnobach? What specific generals will be responsible for the death of 18 unprepared military personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u136	51 A separate mechanized brigade was dispatched to the area of antiterrorist operations with the most extreme connections and parts. Before that, the brigade was mobilized and a complete agreement was reached at the Shirokolanovo Training Center. The tragedy of the brigade was long ago. The tragedy was that in the state of military time there were 450 men in the state of peacetime. Of these, three are the commanders of the mechanized conspiracies. The one who served in the army will not make this tragedy worse for me. One second. Now, after the tragedy under the Walnovah Brigade, it's being pulled out of the area of anti-terrorist operations, it's at the Shirokololanian Training Center, and it's being handled accordingly. Those members of the military, who were part of the anti-terrorist centre, apologize for the fact that they were part of the forces that participated in the ATO, and those military officials would be part of the fighting. As for the responsibility of the generals. We, too, have a general who crawled into this position on his stomach from the platoon, the mouth, the van, the commie, the combustible. And we were not born together as generals. So I would like you to treat the Ukrainian generals with respect. You're not talking about Lieutenant General Muzhenko walking in the chain with the soldiers and destroying the separatists. And we need to talk about him with great respect. And most Ukrainian generals, the vast majority, are experts in their own affairs. As far as responsibility is concerned, we will handle it because the prosecutor’s office is investigating it. The guilty will be determined and punished by law. I'd like to ask them not to hang.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u137	Thank you. National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u138	Please give the word to Army General Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u139	Please turn on Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u140	Dear Mikhail Volodymyrovich, I remind you and everyone here. You led the Ministry of Defense and the Armed Forces at the moment of a completely destroyed system of government. And you've mastered your job and your job! What we mentioned today is that they eat poorly, I'll tell you. For eight years, the daily supply does not change – within 17 bracelets 40 copies! So eight years has that been working for us? But I have a question for you. How will the rotation of the special warehouse in the areas of responsibility, according to Law No. 7485, be carried out?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u141	I have to say with full responsibility that this rotation will not take place. We've pulled out all the power and resources. We've covered all the state borders. We are ready to perform our assignments. We don't have any extra people to pull out and rotate. So I think that the point that's accepted is misleading. This paragraph is not confirmed in any way, and in such a danger to the State, there can be no execution. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u142	Thank you. Please, Agafone, strike faction. Agafone, impact faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u143	I ask you to pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u144	Please turn on Sergio Kaplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I, for my part, would like to thank on behalf of our political power that at such a difficult time you are helping the Ukrainian people fight against foreign divers and terrorists. That's the first one. The other one. In view of the events that are taking place and the further escalation of the situation in the East, its intentions are to bring about a critical situation in the South by Putin. Do you not think that the time has come after, after the presidential elections, to change the constitutional regime of the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, to introduce a state of emergency and thus improve the level of governance by anti-terrorist, anti-diversal processes in these regions? And that's how you solve the question of closing the border with Russia. There are 245 checkpoints that Putin transports through.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u146	The question is understandable. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u147	We have a clear plan of action approved by the acting president of Ukraine. In this regard, everything is clearly described. This plan will lead to Ukraine, Ukraine’s territory, the east of Ukraine being completely cleansed of separatists. To carry out this plan for the Armed Forces and our colleagues who are participating in the antiterrorist operation with their hands fully untied. So I think we're going to do those tasks at the right time and clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u148	It's about politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u149	Honorable colleagues, the national deputy of Paul, have the desire to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u150	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please give my word to my colleague, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u151	Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Minister! I'm here, look, please. I want to tell you like a woman. Well, first of all, I understand you're having a hard time. But if you could understand how every mother who calls us is breaking our heart. I have an offer for you. Look to the Committee of Mothers of Soldiers, they'll each take every part that's in the war right now. And you will receive honest information from them. Because when they tell me that they're feeding a cartilage with worms, and I'm only here, there's no baby with no water, there's no bronze. Please tell me you said nice words to your ear that you sent some deputies there. Tell us their families. And for me personally, is there a Butza who should be behind bars for that situation? [[Applause]] For Julia Timoshenko is his and Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u153	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u154	Please. Because Julia Timoshenko was exonerated from the Ministry for abuse and corruption. I know there are no tenders. Once again, I personally support the creation of a commission of inquiry. Not against you, Minister, for I will stand with you to defend the plans you want to make. But every snake that sits there at headquarters or in the Ministry will not be alive by the Ukrainian people. They must serve the people of Ukraine. And all the generals, we don't mind the position, let them give their heart as you do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u155	I must thank you for your great understanding. And you and I, we're going to protect and carry out the tasks that you talked about together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u156	Thank you. National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u157	Please give the word to Igor Jeremei.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u158	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u159	Mr. Secretary, yesterday the deputies from the "North European Ukraine" faction from Volin drove to the 51st Volodymyr Wallinsky Brigade. I'd like to say for the mothers who can hear us today. We were on the roadblocks and we saw our soldiers, these are heroes who are really ready to fight and defend Ukraine. But in the meantime, we were talking to the fighters who were called into the army with a violation of the law. First. We insist that a commission be sent to 51 brigades to verify the legality of the conscription of certain categories of fighters. The other one. In the near future, we would like to investigate those militias that have called for violations of the fighters. And we also insist that in the near future, there be a part of the brigade in the Wide Lan, where there is a redeployment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u160	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u161	She conducted a full investigation of the events that took place in Volnovas with the Witnesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u162	You said it all right. In fact, it's already been done. A criminal case has been violated. Now the task force is working in a place where there was a tragedy. So all the follow-up actions are coming. We're doing exactly what you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u163	And there will be a review of the appeal, of the conscripts who have the right to be demobilized.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u164	Yeah, military. The military commissioners. Now, some part of this is not a single case where the district commissioners of Volin and Ravenna district were directed to the army of men who, in their moral qualities and in their family and physical condition, should not have gone to the Armed Forces. And we're all, what these people have done, troopers, we're absorbing all of this right now. And that's why these people are being removed, personally, right now, in fact, but the personalization of this case is going to be a violation of the criminal case and accordingly we're going to hear the names of these heroes. We had the same experiences in Dnipropetrovsk, and the same experiences were in Restoration. I have to say that in the perspective that we're looking at and going to be, we're going to have to move away from the structure that has survived. We're going to have regional selection centers that are already tested, and we're going to work in a completely different way in this respect. Thank you. Absolutely!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I think we're thanking the Secretary of Defense right now. I'll tell you why. Please. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you listen to what I have to say, and then you will raise your hands. Please take your seats, Mikhail Volodymyrovich. Honorable colleagues, all the questions asked by the MPs, will certainly be considered, and a commission will be set up to deal with the issue of mobilization, the partial mobilization of our citizens. But I want us all to understand that in the east of the country, there is a real war against our country. And now I've got information: right below the Slovenian terrorists in Russian weapons, our helicopter, which is the military's rotation vehicle, 14 of our soldiers were killed along with General Kulczycki. I'm asking that we stand up for a minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that our Armed Forces, our power structures, will prove the issue of cleansing from terrorists to the end. And all the criminals funded today by the Russian Federation, the weapons of the Russian Federation, will be destroyed or placed on the bench of defendants. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Colleagues, let's do this another time. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, now we're better off than the performances, I'd like to ask the head of the profile committee of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Now we need to bring with you the law that we have passed and that we are waiting for in the Armed Forces to come to a logical conclusion. Now, now. 4785. Please give me your word. Mr. Minister, just a moment. Inni German, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u166	Now there's information in the press that's in the ATO period. I'm here, Mikhail Vasilovich. That during the ATO period the Ukrainian military used the castles in Slavyansk. We're asking for your confirmation or for a formal rebuttal of this information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u167	During the anti-terrorist operation, we used artillery several times, but it was used in artillery positions in the open area. I can tell you where it was and how it was. When the mortars fired on our blockposts. And now we've put each post in a group of minomets so that they can answer. The ATO’s reactive artillery is, in the form of compounds, but it has not been used. It's a very powerful weapon, and it's hitting the plane, it's dangerous, we're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, I would like to remind you that we have adopted Bill 4785 on second reading. But in the course of the rights to this law, there were differences that the committee asked the Supreme Council to clarify. In accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, I remind you, fellow Members, that we are voting with you on proposals that are not agreed upon by the Committee. In the case of support from the Supreme Council, these proposals are being made, in the event that the Supreme Council does not support them, these proposals are being rejected. Once again, the law is not generally voted upon, it is considered to be adopted. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, give a brief comment and let's identify our distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u169	Dear Head, dear colleagues! On May 20, you and I passed this very necessary law. At the same time, during the discussion and during the second reading report, there were twice in the Rules, which initially included 14 amendments and several were not included. But then, according to the MPs ’ insistence, it was said that all the amendments were taken into account. Thus, there was also a variation in the preparation of the technical drafting of this law in order for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Acting President to sign it, and for differences to arise in the interpretation of this moment, according to the author of the amendment of Oxana Prodan. A few meetings took place on the committee. Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, Oxan Sold, and we tried to find an opportunity to reconcile these amendments in a technical way, as required by article 131 of the Supreme Council Rules. These were 11, they're all taken into account. One amendment is technically taken into account by the Ministry of Defence, which refers to the release of not only members of the army for the purpose of discrediting, but also those of the sergeant, the senior, and the Mechmanian regiment. So once again, I want to say that the technical character is 11. Therefore, asking you to support and vote on these amendments that the Committee has proposed to the Chief of the Supreme Council, he has agreed with them and has also submitted to your consideration. In case they are not supported, the Supreme Council will sign this law today without these amendments, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But they improve the content of this law. There are no questions raised in the consideration of 131 articles. So there's no need, I think, to raise your hand now, mate. I'm asking you to support everyone very much. This is a necessary law, without political approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, then I'm in the corrections, a lot of them, by the way, let's take a walk so that we can figure it out. 1st. [[B in m in s a l in]] That is to say, together, the proposal for all amendments to vote. Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues, it's supported because they're here on many pages. Dear colleagues, I am placing within the limits of article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine an amendment that has been amended by the Committee. And in this section of the detailed regulations, I ask that we support the proposals that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin has just reported. Please, Your Honor, sit down and determine the amendments to this law in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:32:25]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Your Honor, I will make an announcement regarding article 13 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. National Deputy Popescu Ivan Vasilovic reports on his membership in the Economic Development Group. Dear colleagues, next question. Please, the Rudzkov People's Deputy, he's long held his hand, turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now addressing the Minister of Defense. Alexander Valentinovich, I am addressing you. You are now acting as President. Yesterday, I ordered the Supreme Council to introduce a state of emergency in the Luhansk, Donetsk region. If we had done this a month and a half ago, once the air force was captured in Lugansk, we wouldn't have lost hundreds of people in the East, in Donbas. We wouldn't have any peace offerings. We're putting the situation on hold right now. Boys die, and if we don't get a state of emergency, don't protect civilians, don't give all the legal grounds to protect, to provide food, all the necessary units, there'll be thousands more dead. What are we pulling for? How long can we go on? How many people can be bullied? We need to act!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I would ask that the pianist not be involved in these matters, but the emergency does not solve anything. When deciding the issue, it can only be said of the military situation in these regions. And this is a matter that is the responsibility of the National Security and Defence Council. But I want to tell you that we were not able to discuss this in the first place, because in this case we could not hold presidential elections that are equally important for our country -- to have legitimate authority so that Ukraine could solve the problems that are facing it today, by the way. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a second reading with you, and I promised when I was taking a break that we would consider the issues on which the national MPs insisted. In particular, Law No. 4897 in the second reading. Please, who's from the committee? Author? Who will report? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're talking. No, no, I'm sorry. No. 0985, yes. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, dear colleagues. No 0985. Please, Mr. Sergey Grigorovitch, from the committee. Turn on the microphone of the Mishchenka People's Deputy. He's ready to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! I want to remind you again that we've discussed it. The table for the second reading is fully processed in the session room. Now the question is to vote. What I've read about it, we've agreed that it's all there. So if there's some kind of legal and technical remedy, it can be done there, even though none of the deputies have any observations. So I ask you to put him to a vote and finally resolve this painful issue. And the second. Alexander Valentinovich, we looked at two laws in a bag, if you remember. After this law goes No. 4281, which we have also considered. Because if we're subtracting an estimate, we have to automatically set a zero rate in the Tax Code Act. And that's why we discussed this issue and decided to adopt Act No. 4281 in the first reading. To be prepared quickly by the committee in order to fit in with the main committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u174	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u175	For the basic law, he could work. Because you know, if there's no grade, no one's going to be able to collect taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a huge table, and there are many amendments. Are we going to vote on the Presidential amendments? Taking into account the presidential rights. I see. Dear colleagues, there is an overall proposal to enact legislation, taking into account the presidential amendments that are comparable in the table. Please support this project by voting. I'll remind you: 0985. Please vote. [[13:37:52]] For 243 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now, I ask you to prepare a law, which we will set in the first reading, after the Kiev laws, immediately. And now we need to consider two more laws in our second reading. Talked about it? It's law, once again, number 4281. Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues, can we put to the vote in the first reading? We can. Please support the law involved in this project in the first reading. Number 4281. Please vote. [[13:38:49]] For 244 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, please, 2499. Second reading. So we can look at it and move on to the first. Draft Act on Amendments. Is that what this is about? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! We have indeed voted on very important proposals for an inheritance. All of us are approached by our voters about the wrongness of paying taxes on this matter. But we also helped very rich people, who now, by registering 12 apartments per mother and granddaughter, will pass it on to them. So let's make some changes, work it out, so there's not only the relationship, but the level of the assets. So that the common people get an inheritance, it's free of charge, and where we have a large, truly rich people to pay for Ukraine's budget, the corresponding tax. That's the right thing to do. Please, this is our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we adopted 4271 in the first reading on the changes to tax legislation. So we can work on the other one. Yeah, that's not the problem. Dear colleagues, let us continue to work, 2499, the draft Act amending certain legislation on parking rules for vehicles and establishing responsibility for parking rules for vehicles. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u179	There is no secret that, on the one hand, drivers of vehicles do not want to pay money for parking, and on the other hand, owners of parking lots do not want to install parking machines. They usually work in the shadows and hide from tax collectors. The adoption of the law will, first of all, allow drivers who refuse to pay parking fees to be held responsible. And secondly, control the owners of such sites, which should be equipped with parking spaces and not hide from paying the money to the budget. In the preparation of the bill, 29 proposals came to him in the second reading, 19 of them being taken into account in whole, in part, or in editorial terms, 10 of them were rejected. A technical error was involved in the drafting of the second reading bill. Therefore, for a transcript of the footnote to article 152-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences, it is necessary to make such an editorial statement. The footnote of part one of this article does not apply in cases defined by parts of article 30 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine for free parking, as well as to persons who are exempt under the law from payment of the cost of services using the cost of parking facilities. Page 4 of the chart. A similar addition to article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities should be made to article 52 with the symbol 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Road Traffic. Page 8 of the table. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, there is a question for the rapporteur. I see a few. Let's just go for the repairs. The only way to deal with this issue is to turn Ariev on the microphone to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u181	I'm not in the procedure, I'm in the correction. 10 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u182	I'm asking you, mate, I thought you had a question for the profile committee. Please, then, after the negative adjustments, let's go through here, starting with the eighth. Now, now, I see. 8 Amendment, People’s MP Zubko insists? No, it doesn't. Please, 9 revisions. Let's go to the 10th, dear colleagues. National MP, the author insists? Don't insist. Yeah, 10 revisions. It's written, counted, respected colleagues. But please turn on the microphone of the Ariev People’s Deputy for 10 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! This law is very important so that we can finally arrange for parking in the streets. But the 10th amendment, it limits the use of technology. In fact, it can be counted as a lobbyist to use only one kind of technical tool. At this point, I strongly urge that we put it on the stand, not to support the actual drafting of the bill, which allows us to use all possible means that exist in European countries to control parking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, is there a need to comment on the proposal? I'm betting on confirmation of Amendment 10. People's deputies would like to make a decision on this. Please. [[13:44:42]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Is that a question? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, Alexander Valentinovich, if I understand the 10th Amendment correctly, says in the 10th Amendment that the failure of parking facilities, transportation vehicles with parking machines or automatic travel and exit terminals entails the imposition of a fine on officials of the owners who maintain 30 - 40 untaxed minima. So what we're doing is we're trying to get the playgrounds to be equipped with the machines needed to get everything to be executed, not in the pocket of whoever's holding this site. If we do not support this amendment, it means that just as we have taken parking spaces in our pocket, so will we. I mean, if we didn't support it, we don't need the law, because then nothing goes into the execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u186	Now. National Deputy Ariev, please. And I'll have the committee comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u187	I ask you very much not to mess things up. Because I am a cash - paying parking car that is paid for by mobile phones. So there's a lot of possibilities. So we narrow it down to just one type of parking technique, and we limit it to another. In this case, every city should determine on the basis of an open competition the technology that will win the open competition and the tender rather than impose its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u188	Vitaly Stanislavovich, please briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, this amendment has been considered in our committee, the Committee on Law Enforcement. This is an amendment of the people's MP Misik. Its essence consists of only three words: the lack of equipment for parking. Well, what's not clear? My colleague Adam Martinyuk made it quite clear that this should be accepted and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u190	Colleagues, well, the Supreme Council was determined not to support it. I can't convince the Supreme Council to change its position. Dear colleagues, the next unaccounted for amendment, 16. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 18th Amendment. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 20 revisions. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 21 revisions. Is the National MP insisting? There's no need to insist. 22 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u191	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u192	Excuse me, count 22nd. The 23rd amendment. Is there an insistence on voting? I won't. 24th and 25th. 25th, is it? Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u193	Honorable colleagues, 25 and 29 amendments, are amendments that apply to small cities. What's going on now? In small cities, the city’s mayors are obliged to install parking spaces. One parking lot costs about 20,000 dollars. They have a small town, let's say in 40, 30,000 citizens need to be installed 7 or 8. That's 160-170,000 dollars they need to spend on these parking spaces. What's going on? They're legally unable to take parking, so they're not taking any money in markets, anywhere, because it's against the law. And if they do, they share it with law enforcement, and it's all going, well, off the record. Let us give them the opportunity, the councils themselves in small towns, to make decisions about how to equip these parking spaces. It will also be a legal decision and will also have to be made. And the community itself will manage this money. Let's not rush them into the cabal, now no one's taking anything at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u194	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u195	So in big cities, yes, we really need to support where there's a budget, but small towns, 20, 30,000, 40,000 people, we're driving them into a situation where they don't have a parking lot, and if they do, they're going to spend 150,000 dollars. When will they be cut off? I have this question to the head of the committee and everyone. Let's look at things this way. Please give them the opportunity to take it, to support the 25th and 26th amendments. We'll simplify the work of the mayor of small towns. I've collected them, talked to them, they're all asking a lot of questions, let's give local councils a chance and give them the authority to set parking rules themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u196	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u197	Well, first of all, I'm not the head of the committee, we have the head of the committee, Mr. Cosemiakin, Mr. Kožemiakin, and I'm the secretary. Why did you reject the committee? The committee rejected your amendment because, with respect to you, it is contrary to article 116 of the Rules, and all rules should be the same for all cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's define by voting. I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 25 of the People's Chamber of Defense. Please vote. [[13:50:39]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have a final amendment, and we can make decisions. National MP Opanaschenko insists on 29 amendments? He insists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. Well, if we think they're taking money illegally now, hidden or not taking it at all, then the mayor or the little town can't fix these sites, let's just leave the situation, close our eyes. And this is where my colleague said that everyone should be on equal terms. Well, you know the difference between a town of 20,000 budgets and Kiev and their impact on the state budget distribution. If you develop a mechanism to provide them with a low-cost loan to install these parking equipment, I agree. If not, let's give them a chance and support them. Let them take the money and put their small town in the treasury, which will be a great help to them. I ask you once again to support all the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u200	According to the committee, this amendment is contrary to article 116 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's define by voting on this amendment. Please activate the "Council" system and vote in favour of the amendment. Please. [[13:52:27]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we can now decide with you on the adoption of this bill as a whole. As a reminder, registration number 2499 is a project to amend some Ukrainian legislation on parking rules for vehicles and to establish responsibility for parking rules for vehicles. The committee's proposal to accept the project in the second reading and in general. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Colleagues, attention, take your seats. Please vote. Please vote. [[13:53:14]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 23- Party of Regions, Fatherland – 55, Impact – 32, 10 – Economic Development, 22 – European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 17. Any suggestions from the committee? I beg you, Vitaly Stanislavovich, what should I do with the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u202	Too bad the MPs didn't support it. He can go back to the committee for a second read, but the committee has done a lot of work. I would like to point out that the committee is composed of representatives of different factions and groups, and everyone has supported this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u203	Is that a question, colleagues? No, it's not. Adam Ivanovich, from this question? Please. Martinyuk, national MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I understand that we are in this situation sometimes when we do not want to hear from each other or look at each other at the holiday, we do not look at what we vote for. I'd like you to hear what I have to say again. Without supporting Amendment 10, we eliminated the substance of the law. The law was written to allow local authorities, whether Kiev or any city, to legally earn money in parking. To make money in parking, you have to put machine guns or machine guns or whatever you want -- any device that will fix how many cars and how much to pay. I want this one to go into the city budget. We're taking this amendment, and we're going to continue the same thing that the parking lot is going to take in their pocket. And the purpose of such a law is not to pass. If we accept with 10 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u205	I understand that there is a proposal to put the 10th amendment to the vote. My colleagues, I'm sorry, there's an offer. I understand you don't support this proposal, by voting let's define. Ariev, a national MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, this amendment can be approved. I'll just tell you what format this is in right now. "No facilities for paid parking of vehicles by parking machines or automatic travel and exit terminals." It's clearly recalculated. Or then add "or by other means." If this is taken into account, there are no problems: or other means of controlling the payment of parking services. Then it could be. If everyone agrees, then it can be accepted in such an order, without restrictions on technical means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u207	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u208	I think it's appropriate to accept that. It's the right proposal, it needs to be included and voted in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to re-establish the offer. That is to say, we take into account in the general vote for Law 10 of the Amendment, but in the wording expressed by the Ariev People’s Deputies. I mean, or other technical tools that provide parking control there, so I understand, and parking fees. Yeah. That is to say, in this context, let us vote, let us try, in general, to vote on the law, including 10 amendments that were not supported, but in an editorial that was announced by the Ariev People’s Deputy. Please, Your Honor, vote for everyone. Please vote. In general. [[13:57:21]] For 232 Decision taken. Please, the People's Deputy Kyle of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u210	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm not on that. I know that the High Council is now in charge of the Attorney General's duties, and our faction insists that the issue of the King, the removal of the MP's immunity, be considered now and immediately. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the only thing I see is that we don't have a lot of deputies, but there is when the faction insists. I beg you, is the Attorney General in our room? Colleagues, let's go to the Attorney General's office, we'll be determined. Dear colleagues, I wanted to make you an offer. We talked to the heads of some factions, and I would suggest that we now resume the morning session for half an hour and then close our meeting today, and that we continue our work on Tuesday, June 3. No objections? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I mean, we're continuing for half an hour in the morning. [[B in m in s a l in]] One more time. Dear colleagues, I ask the Attorney General to the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking the secretary to invite all the national deputies to the hall. Please. Honorary colleagues, on May 12, 2014, the Supreme Council was given the executive responsibility of Attorney General Oleg Igorwich Nehnczyk to give consent to the criminal responsibility of the national deputy, King Oleg Anatoliyovich, and to grant a permit for detention and election in respect of him as a precautionary measure of being held in custody. Dear colleagues, there is a request that we have now heard the Attorney General. If necessary, we can listen. I'm the only one who can't see the head of the Regulatory Committee, and I've come to terms with this. No objections? I won't. We would also give the word to the national deputy of the King, but unfortunately he has not been present at the meetings of the Supreme Council lately. Please, Mr. Attorney General.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u212	Excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen! Following the Office of the Prosecutor of the City of Kiev, on 15 April this year, information was submitted to the Single Register of Trial Investigations under 4201410000000349 under part three of article 109, part three, of the article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the allegations of Rudnik, Kuwit, Marcus and Karpa by the National Deputy of Ukraine, King Oleg Anatoliyovich, as a result of media calls for a violent change or overthrow of the constitutional system in Ukraine, as well as calls for actions to change the boundaries of Ukraine's territory to violate the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine. The trial found that according to article 364 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Kingdoms, Oleg Anatoliyovich, is a service person who is constantly acting as a representative of the authorities and in accordance with part one of article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service, has a particularly responsible position. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputy with Amendments and Supplements, the National Deputy is a representative of the Ukrainian people in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and must respect the rights and obligations set out in Chapters III and III of the Act. Moreover, article 8, paragraph 1, of the Act stipulates that in their activities a national MP should adhere to public morals, always maintain his own dignity, respect the honor and dignity of other national MPs, officials and citizens, refrain from actions, statements and actions that compromise him, the electorate, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the state. In accordance with article 2 of the Constitution, Ukraine is a unitary state. The territory of Ukraine within the existing border is complete and intact. Despite these requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Kings, Oleg Anatoliyevich, made public calls for a violent change and the overthrow of the constitutional system of Ukraine in March-April 2014. Moreover, he deliberately made calls for a change in the territory and state border of Ukraine, a violation of the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine, which resulted in serious consequences in the form of numerous victims of the state of affairs today, law enforcement and the peaceful population. Also causing serious bodily damage to citizens, grabbing administrative buildings, barbaric destruction, and damage to state, municipal and private property, causing damage to the state, and deliberately blocking the activities of law enforcement agencies on the ground. The fact that the Ukrainian National Deputy to the King of Criminal Offences, provided for in part three of article 109, part three of article 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, is to make public calls for a violent change, to bring down the constitutional system and to make calls to change the boundaries of the territory and the state border of Ukraine to violate the order established by the Ukrainian Constitution, which has led to serious consequences, is fully confirmed by the lawful conduct of evidence. In particular, testimony from witnesses, videos, and media materials, including the Internet, and the findings of forensic experts and other evidence. Questioned as witnesses by citizens of Rudnik, Kuwit, Marcus, Karpa and others, 16 people today, have shown that during March-April 2014, through the media, they have personally seen and heard calls by the Royal People's Deputy for a violent change, the collapse of the constitutional system, and calls for a change in the territory and state border of Ukraine to violate the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine, which has led to serious consequences. In addition, the investigator’s free access reveals a large number of videos showing the King’s comments aimed at the violent change and collapse of the constitutional system in Ukraine, as well as a change in the boundaries of Ukraine. Especially on April 11, 2014, he acknowledged the existence of the self - proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic and even agreed to head it. An expert forensic-linguistic expert, as well as psycholinguistic analysis of the King's statements, is assured that the texts of his statements contain public calls for non-recognition of the legitimacy of the existing authority, the decentralization of the regions with a view to changing Ukraine's territorial system in violation of the order established by the Ukrainian Constitution, as well as support for the annexation of the Crimea, the attempt to create a negative attitude towards the Ukrainian State and its citizens as a whole in the audience. Open statements of alleged oppression of the Russian-speaking population and requests to Russia continue to be occupied. In addition, the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Kingdom committed similar crimes on 11 April of this year in Donetsk, during a rally where he not only expressed dissatisfaction with the actions of the Ukrainian State and the socio-political situation in the country, but also agreed to lead the so-called South Eastern Resistance movement, aimed at changing Ukraine's territorial integrity through its federalization. According to the report, the prosecution of the Donetsk Region also launched criminal conduct under part two of article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on 16 April of this year, and for that time there has been a judicial investigation. This includes even the latest events in Lugansk and Donetsk, during which the Kings continued their illegal activity, giving their consent to the leadership of the so-called "Resistance Movement" in the East. The investigation found that the Kings of April 11th of this year, during a rally in Donetsk City, expressed dissatisfaction with the actions of the Ukrainian government, a socio-political situation in the country, agreed to lead the South-East Resistance movement, aimed at changing Ukraine's territorial integrity by violent means. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the Luhansk Region also investigated criminal conduct since April 15, 2014, as part of article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine concerning the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Kingdom, which on April 12, at the Ukrainian Security Service building in the Luhansk region, made public calls for changes in Ukraine's territory. All of the above actions are combined and determined by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. In addition, on 26 May, the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine was identified as investigating the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine's Office of the Attorney-General's Office of the Prosecutor-General. According to the requirements of part of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, parts of the first article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine cannot be brought to criminal responsibility, detained or arrested without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part two of article 482 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy, its detention or election as a precautionary measure in the form of custody or home arrest cannot be carried out without the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, under part two of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, part two of article 482 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, article 218 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine has submitted an application for the approval of the National Deputy of Ukraine, King Oleg Anatoliyovich, to criminal liability and his detention and election as a precautionary measure. On the basis of this, I ask that you consider these submissions and agree to attract the National Deputy of Ukraine, Králova Oleg Anatolovič, born on 2 June 1970 in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukrainian Nationality, a Ukrainian national elected by the People's Deputy of Ukraine in one-maned constituency No. 40, the Dnipropetrov region of the Party of the Regions in the next election of the Ukrainian National Deputies on 28 October 2012, acquire the authority of the National Deputy of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 December 2012, previously not tried, to criminalize the criminal responsibility provided for in article 109, part three of article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, its detention and election of a precautionary measure in the form of detention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u213	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. I was approached by some faction leaders who said that many deputies who wanted to vote in favour of this decision were now absent. I would suggest, fellow honourable colleagues, that we don't immediately disrupt the voting process, to determine from this issue on Tuesday. Now we've discussed it and on Tuesday let's figure out, we'll make a decision, we won't need the Attorney General's report anymore, we've heard everything. And the Supreme Council will be able to make decisions. We invite the King constantly, and he hides from the Ukrainian people. I can put the vote in a signal, give us a signal vote, but it won't show us any position. Here's your offer. National Deputy Zharavsky. Then there is the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, in order for the hall to have a nice face, you still need to have a decision on the profile committee. I mean, there's no decision on the profile committee because there was no quorum. Next, count the actual number of deputies in the room today. We have to ask this question when there's a hall. So I'd like to support Mr. Alexander and transfer him to Tuesday and put him in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u215	Colleagues, please, calm down. Take it easy. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u216	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, if you vote today, I'll take my question off. If, as you said, Tuesday's vote, I have a request for the executive responsibility of the Attorney General: to give the MPs what you said by Tuesday, if Tuesday, in writing, seriously this motivational part. I remember this practice in the Supreme Council. That is, a booklet was presented, where all the serious charges were written. And if you bet today, it is clear that there is no need for such a booklet today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u217	Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u218	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We have a war with you today, and the National Deputy of the Kings has called for a war against the Ukrainian people, and children, brothers and men of our families and our Ukrainians are killed there. So we have to ask the question today, if there's not enough votes in the room by chance, I suggest you put in a signal vote so that we understand the willingness to make this important decision for the state. Criminals must answer to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u219	I totally agree with you. The People’s Deputy of God’s Word, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u220	My dear colleagues, without being threatened, I would like to say that every day Parliament is acting or not doing what is increasing the resentment of Parliament in society. If today. Now, really, we have to make a signal vote. If there is no decision on Tuesday regarding the traitor of the country, the national MP who calls for the division of the country and the actual death, it means that this Parliament is digging its own grave. Everyone thinks that people have already closed their eyes, people no longer think or analyze those who are betraying, who are betraying the country inside the parliament, the legislative body?Oh, my God! Don't play with people, don't play with society, because it's going to go under the parliament walls again, and then you're going to climb each other for a decision that you're covering with your non-voting thieves who should have been sitting on the Sugar for a long time!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear colleagues, give me a signal vote. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please give me a minute for the attorney general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u222	Excuse me. Dear National Deputies! With regard to the question of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy, the application was filed with the Attorney General’s Office on May 12th. As for the matter of the meeting of the regulatory committee, I would like to inform you that the regulatory committee has tried twice to gather. I arrived at it, as provided for by the Law on Rules and Other Legislation of Ukraine, but the regulatory committee was unable to gather. Under this law, however, when a regulatory committee is unable to take a decision, the matter is brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to the consideration and the terms of this submission, I just want to remind you that, until the MP's immunity has been removed, this person, who has been filed, continues to abuse his MP's integrity, continues to commit crimes that constitute national security for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-29-m0.u223	Colleagues, is there a need for a signal vote? There's a need. Well, colleagues, I mean, once again, let's just not start ourselves. Let's make a signal vote on Tuesday, and I feel like we're finally going to make a decision, 100 percent. Please turn on the "Council" system for the signal vote. Please, Your Honor, determine whether there is a signal vote on the presence of national deputies in the Hall. [[14:17:54]] For 206 Dear colleagues, I'm sure. By factions, please, according to factions: 1 – Party of Regions, 73 – Fatherland, 36 – 17 – Economic Development, 23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35.0 – Freedom, 21 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that on Tuesday we will make a final decision on this matter. Is there no objection? The first question is, on Tuesday, after the speeches, we're going to ask this question to make a decision. Colleagues, I'm asking you to keep your distance, colleagues, I'm asking you an important question. Let's say the strike faction insists, we're going to adopt two short laws on the first reading. Please. Laws 4940 and 4939. I beg you, is National Deputy Guillerus (4940) in order to report the Law? Vitaly. Who's ready to report 4,940 on a reduced procedure? Carpunts, national deputy. Please proceed with the reduced procedure. Please support this consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you for a brief procedure. [[14:19:11]] For 131 The decision is not taken. I'd like to take another seat at my workplace. Guys, don't split up. I ask you, for a brief procedure, to support the consideration of this matter. Please vote. [[14:19:41]] For-147 My colleagues, I think we should move on Tuesday, because it's unrealistic to make a decision right now. Come on, fellows of honor. Dear colleagues, you and I have dealt with some serious issues today, and we are closing today's meeting. The Supreme Council will continue its work on June 3rd at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
