ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:26:02]] There were 398 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yesterday, February 4, in the Sumskie region, 13 people died as a result of a collision of a bus and a train. We express deep compassion for all our family members and loved ones. We want the victims to recover as soon as possible. And let us honor the memory of those who died by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to deliver proposals, statements, messages. And that's what's going to happen. Then I'll give the word to the faction leaders who will report on the issues that are being addressed at the Conciliation Council to the faction leaders in the preparation of the constitutional reform documents. And then I'm going to put a draft to the vote and we're going to look at the calendar work plan for the session, the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Call, and then we're going to figure out how we're going to work together. That's why I'm asking the national deputies to sign up for the speech. Please, the Vitalia Klitschka faction, the National Deputy of Karpunts. Here comes Victor Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to draw your attention to the unfortunate thing that has happened here by our vote. The laws passed on January 16 that provoked a serious exacerbation of the conflict in the country were not repealed. Not overturned by technical legal problems, which unfortunately were known, but unfortunately they didn't want to be responded to, in any case the attempt was to stop the vote. I don't want to look consciously or unconsciously for this, but in any case, I urge the distinguished national deputies to correct this mistake. For example, I will give you an article. By January 16, 2014, the text of the Ukrainian Criminal Code did not contain such an article as “Small. ” This is article 151-1. If you open the Criminal Code today, you will find this article. But in the end, you will see a footnote: "the code is supplemented by article 151-1, according to the law of 16 January 2014 -- lost its validity on the basis of the law of 28 January 2014." That is, by voting the law, this vote did not result in the repeal of scandalous laws in 2014. I'd like to explain why this happened. This was due to wrong procedures to change the law. If we want to change the law, for example, we're changing the tax rate from 30 percent to 20, we're preparing the law. In article 25, paragraph "a" should be replaced by 20. Then, when the law is signed, that gives the basis for the body of the law to take the 30 and replace it by 20. To go back, we need to do a different mirror procedure. You have to adopt a law, you have to change the number 20 percent, and you have to change it by 30. We didn't do it. Instead, we canceled the law that changed from 30 to 20. I'm sorry, once again in a simple language, we canceled the change of law, but we didn't cancel the law itself. In my practice at the Ministry of Finance, I have faced this problem more than once under other laws. And it's always had a similar effect. So, dear colleagues, there's been a technical error. The political will of Parliament was expressed in connection with the repeal of laws. Now we need to bring legislation into line. There are two ways to solve this problem. The first way is to introduce into the law adopted on January 28, a standard of the same kind. Legislative acts that have been amended by laws that are recognized as having become invalid are in force in the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u3	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u4	in the January 15, 2014, issue of Awake! The text of the corresponding entries is added. But even in this paper, I'm not sure that this will lead to the restoration of the standards that were in place to adopt these scandalous laws. That's why there's a second offer. Prepare the law of mirroring, mirroring law. The standards that were adopted on January 16 are replaced by the standards that were in force on January 16. We invite colleagues from any factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u5	Victor Mikhailovich, well, most of the deputies want a performance. Come on, let's get this over with. Ishtenko, national MP, are you passing your time? You're handing it over? Yeah. Please speak for Ishchenk. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u6	Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm ready to leave the rostrum. If that's a question you don't find unscrupulous. I'm rare.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u7	Those principles! Well, you should. Come on, don't waste your time. Step forward, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, we have a group of experts working to bring order and to really adopt the law that caused the conflict. Cancel the law that caused the conflict. We have colleagues working for us. All those who want to join us are quick to work on the details of this law and are ready to submit it to the Supreme Council for its consideration. The main thing is to vote and put a dot on the existence of such shameful laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, three minutes' notice. I'm asking you to perform. Yes, the Freedom Union, the people's deputy of Schweik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u10	Igor Schwaika, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Society, I would like to go back for a week and point out once again the law which, on January 29th, with the traditional for the Supreme Council, unfortunately by clicking, with the absent National Deputies of Popescu and Supper, which at this time were in Strasbourg, and this is confirmed by the documents of their being there and their absence in the session room, so there were no 232 votes. But this is the problem that we draw from both the sixth and the fifth vocation. In fact, the law that was passed at the extraordinary session on January 29th. From the MPs of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom of Switzerland and Peace was submitted and registered in the Supreme Council on Monday, before the Conciliation Council, a bill amending the approved Act on the Elimination of the Negative Consequences of Citizens' Participation in Peace Protests. Our proposal concerns the following. The law that exists today is in fact the Hostages Act, since the State continues, regardless of the Supreme Council’s declaration, to imprison, to keep people in prison, to open up new criminal conduct and, in fact, to act as a terrorist who begins to release the hostages only after the citizens have made some concessions. The position of our faction and the position of those who went to Midan is clear and clear: The State must adopt the Rehabilitation Act of Protestants. So, first. We propose to change the name and the Supreme Council's law to call the Rehabilitation Act a protest party. The other one. It's very important. Never in life has Ukrainian legislation seen such a structure that the law begins to apply to the Attorney-General's revenge, regardless of the Attorney-General's name – it will be Pshonka, or Piscon, and never has the right of the Minister of Internal Affairs, nor has the Attorney-General to enforce that or any other law. At this time, what can we do? Our proposal is to cancel the 9, 10, 11 articles of the approved Law and move to a normal regime for closing all criminal conduct. Because it is necessary to move from the Hostages Act to the Law on Apologize to the State of Ukraine to its citizens, who have in fact been placed in the position of criminals today. And the state must apologize, the state in the person of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for putting the country in such a short-sighted position. This will be the beginning of a possible solution to the crisis situation that our country is in today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u11	Party of regions, National Deputy Kunchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u12	I'd like to give Nestor Ivanovich Schuffritch a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u13	Please, National Deputy Nestor Shufric
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u14	Thank you. Honourable Vladimir Vasilovich, respected colleagues, 23 years of independence, and in the streets of Ukraine, people are killed, and the militias are shown to be killed. Like it or not, it's acquisition, including all of us, because today we're responsible for what's going on in the country. Believe me, the Party of Regions demands and is closely monitoring the investigation. Because we, no less than our opposition, want to know what actually happened on Gruszewski Street. And today you can't help but agree that there's extremism in the country and there's terrorism. Even the U.S. Department of State, which you cannot fail to respond to, has warned of sanctions against those who will provoke extreme action on Kiev streets. And that's a fact. Of course, today we have to look with respect at what we are being counseled, but the fact remains a fact. I heard a speech yesterday about the ruse of tolling. But I have a question, was there any Russian politician in Ukraine who spoke publicly about what was going on in our country? What they're discussing in Brussels is a general practice. And today we see politicians coming and publicly upholding one side's position by coming to the invitation of the Ukrainian government. It's unacceptable and it's not correct, we have to make our own decisions on this issue. And now the main question you're talking about is reform. The question is, Will you follow the standards of possible changes and return to the previous texts of the Constitution? Will it really satisfy you, or is it just a game on your part to make this conflict linger? Of course, we must resolve all the issues that society demands of us today. Of course, we must today ensure the law and the functioning of the Constitution in any way. And here I have a question, and will you respect this Constitution, or is this just a reason for you to prolong the conflict? Therefore, today, the Party of the Regions calls on you to act within the framework of the law and within the interests of Ukrainian citizens, regardless of the language they speak and where they live. Ukraine is ours, and we will not allow anyone to tear it down, and we will not allow anyone to pursue it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u15	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, the national deputy of Tchakouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u18	Honorable Voters and Honorable Fellows! On behalf of our faction, I would like to draw your attention to the fate of those simple people who have fallen victim to the opposition, the responsibility for which lies, indeed, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to emphasize a few terrible figures, for today 30 people as a minimum remain missing, and therefore from the strike faction, we ask the Supreme Council Head to submit to the Attorney General a statement from the Supreme Council requesting personal control of the search for these people. And for us to be convinced that they are being searched for and not subjected to torture under the Kiev woods -- it's very important. The other one. Dear colleagues, you may think, thousands of people have suffered as little as these, violence as in the streets, and six people have lost an eye. And today Lithuania even allows us to treat our Ukrainian citizens who have suffered the effects of Ukrainian politics. So maybe we'll give you, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and every deputy, part of our wages, and we'll settle this on factions, "BOCK" made this decision, send them to the treatment of these people. One person lost an arm and is helped to make a prosthetic by our colleagues abroad. But this is our responsibility with you. Dear colleagues, 150 journalists who explain our daily work with you, have suffered the same damage from the actions of the power structures. And you know, none of this muscle that beat and bludgeoned journalists is named by their names. We're asking you, Mr. Head, to file a statement on behalf of the Supreme Council requiring a full investigation and to name the names of either one of the Berkuts who exceeded his duties and beat up journalists, otherwise this impunity will give rise to new impunity, and the next time we'll have 200 or 300 beaten journalists. These are absolutely unacceptable facts where the Supreme Council cannot hide. It's the same thing, colleagues, to all of you, to pay attention to these appeals that are currently taking place. A lot of them are artificially moved, and that's the fate of the common people. Yesterday, a number of appeal courts were transferred to consider changes in the possible preventive action of innocent people. And once again, I want to emphasize, but there are no authors of these laws on January 16th, but these prosecutors are sitting there, ashamed to be, and the judges who wrote these. That's where only the opposition deputies go. Let's go to the judges together and get them to look at all these cases in time and let people go free. And this should be the position not only of the three opposition factions but of the entire Supreme Council. Once again, we would like to urge you, dear reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u19	It's a faction of the Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, do we have or don't we? The faction of the Ukrainian Company, the national deputy of Baiduk. I'm asking you to comply with the Rules. Peter Cibenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u20	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! While Ukraine’s post - Soviet history is full of shocks, today’s situation is most acute and explosive. Ukraine is at the threshold of civil war. All of them agree that a degree of stress should be reduced, a compromise sought. But the initiators and organizers of the turmoil in Ukraine understand the compromise very well. They see a compromise that the state, the authorities, should only retreat, give up positions, destroy the state, and they, i.e. the opposition, should only come forward. That is, they have only rights without obligations, and the state, the authorities have only duties without rights. But there is no such thing as law without obligation. The so-called opposition, its fuhrers, whether or not the traditional scarecrows that worked for two months are no longer working, have begun to update the arsenal of scarecrows. In recent times, claims of the disappearance of opponents have been made, and some claim that they have been kidnapped in general. I'm surprised what they call 30-40, not 300? Why not three thousand? After all, anyone who simply left Maidan could simply leave the field barracks and declare them missing without news. They demand that the power structures find those who have not disappeared and return them to Midan. And now for amnesty without warning. The Supreme Council, Ukraine has been through this before, that's the law we passed with you. Let go of the thunderbolts and the provocateurs? Let go. Where are they now? On the barricades. What are they doing? Keep thundering. So these are the same rakes that we're offered to tread on the next one. And the last thing I want to say is, my fellow Ukrainians, the faction of the Company of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine have long offered to allow Ukrainian citizens to express themselves on the way forward. But one side and the other both refused to do so to the citizens of Ukraine. So we have what we have. And last but not least, dear colleagues. For the last week, I had a conversation with all the leaders of the Ukrainian veteran organization. They are extremely concerned about the situation that is under way today: the decline in production, the disruptions in the supply of pensions, the decline in the cost of the bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u21	The faction of the Party of the Regions, the National MP of Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Koleschenk Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u23	Please, National Deputy Vadim Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear country! My country has become a hostage to the painful ambitions of a group of people for whom power and money have gone beyond the integrity of Ukraine. We have become hostages of information technology and unprecedented information interference in our lives. The authorities are meeting today with various representatives of Maidan, and they say in one voice that they have not authorized those politicians who speak on their behalf to negotiate on behalf of Maidan. There are the vast majority of people who demand a peaceful settlement of the conflict, and they demand that they negotiate with them, not with those who, on their behalf, belong to the rescuers of the nation. We're being told someone has something to apologize for. And who will apologize to the millions of Ukrainians who are working today, who are studying today, who are doing everything today to make the country flourish and develop?Oh, my God! That is what they are doing today to fill the budget, unlike those demagogues and provocateurs who claim not to pay taxes to our State's budget. I have a legitimate question about who's trying to tell you that someone's guilty here. It's all my fault! And you first! Because when you don't win by the rules, you have to change the rules. You are required to return to the 2004 Constitution by a decree, but you have forgotten that the 2004 Constitution enshrines party slavery when deputies are required to comply with their demands, not the demands of voters, as a box of blessings to their leaders. It is therefore here in the House of Mayors that allows the unwavering ambitions of individual bombarded politicians to be balanced, who see nothing but fleas and foreign money. For me today, it is clear and obvious that we are under an obligation to protect the country. And those who claim to be depriving themselves of violence against people have received an adequate response: today they are talking more and more about federalization for one simple reason: people are afraid to live with national fascists; people do not want fascists to come to them and explain how they live. Therefore, you are primarily responsible for the civil war that you want to unleash. Party of regions, people of the world, millions of people against what you're doing here. They are for a peaceful settlement of the issue, not for the development of our sovereign State, as opposed to how you do and break ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u25	The faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Kovac.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u26	May I have Chechtovo Mikhail Vasilovich, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u27	Please, National Deputy Mikhailo Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Vasilevich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Ukraine had never stood so close to the line that the country’s collapse continued. A party of regions, power, the President, we are completely excluding the possibility of force disengagement. We see only the way of compromise. We see an end to the political crisis by reaching a national compromise at the negotiating table. And the light came at the end of the tunnel when negotiations began at the initiative of President Viktor Yanukovic with the leaders of the factions of the opposition. A number of compromise steps have been agreed upon and implemented. I also mean the resignation of the Prime Minister and the Government. I am also referring to the repeal of a package of bills that fully comply with European standards for the adaptation of our legislation to European legislation. And all European experts say that they are lettered in conformity with European legislation. Yes, maybe it's not the time, we've gone and we've repealed those laws, although four laws have voted together. We compromised, and we voted on the Amnesty Act. But still a very thorny and slow way of compromise. The question is, why are we taking this road so slowly? Although there is light at the end of the tunnel. I see two main reasons. We have a different vision of compromise. Our political opponents see the compromise as the victory of one political power over the other, but here is the absolute right of Leonid Makarović Kravchuk: if you sit at a table to compromise with the ultimatum, it will be no compromise, it will be an attempt to lead the other side to surrender. That's not gonna happen. But the main second reason is that there is a slow compromise. Regrettably, the leaders of the opposition are thinking more about not how to localize the political conflict in the country, but they are thinking about what political dividends they will go out with after the localization of the political conflict. More cynical, more immoral opposition, the world did not know. It's like this: it's burning the house, they're standing there, and they're thinking, you know, start taking a shower, you start helping old people and kids out, or they're gonna pack their shoes, and they're gonna wrap their jackets up. How, then, when the fire is extinguished and the shoes are dirty and the jacket is burned? If you put out a fire, they'll look at you like real people, like patriots, like men. That's the second reason. That's why there's no other way out today. Including the next compromise step under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u29	The faction of the Party of the Region of the People's Deputy Zubik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u30	Please give the floor to Deputy Saldo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Vladimir Saldo.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished fellow MPs! What we're doing here right now is forcing each other to speak in the language that we're more comfortable with. We force each other to hear about what's going on here only in Parliament. Let's hear what people are saying to us. Now people are thinking, for example, in Hersonian, how they're going to sow, how to prepare for the spring season, how to buy fuel. What's really going on? What are we talking about? Again, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] But scream more, it won't work. Again about yelling at each other. Nobody wants to think about people. What, then, is happening? We keep saying that someone there, thanks to the head of Nazbank or the head of the government, is having some economic difficulties. The economic difficulties began two weeks ago when the national currency began to fall. Now where are we going? We're going to go to the point where the price of fuel will rise by spring, and the price of fuel will be reflected in the sowing campaign. Next. You can talk about anything that's happened. So let's just pause a little bit and start talking about the economy. Our faction has offered factions leaders to continue their talks and suggestions in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, and we will still do what we need to do, what people expect us to do. People are waiting for us to approve the bill. Let the negotiations take place, and we can work quietly. The results of the Supreme Council are not measured by who is forced to break or break through the knee, but by the law’s approval of more than two thousand. Again, more than 16 bills aimed at increasing accountability for corruption, and improving the conditions for business, and increasing the rights of residents of hostels, and urban activities, and housing and utility issues. People are looking forward to it. Journalists are already on the way out asking, "Are you going to start working at the end of the day or are you going to yell?".. I invite you, honourable deputies, our colleagues from the opposition, but let us remember that the opposition, its authority and its responsibilities are to remind the authorities of their failures, of their shortcomings, not their simple ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u33	Thank you. I beg of you, Mikola Tomenko, a minute. And we're done. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw everyone's attention to the fact that, in our different interpretations of the political situation, we should stick to at least three values: the safety and protection of every person in Ukraine, the protection of every citizen's freedom, and that is unity and the only Ukraine. And in view of that, Vladimir Vasilovich, I would like to ask you to give a commission to our Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, perhaps to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to examine the situation in the Supreme Council of Crimea, particularly at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Crimea, to discuss the possibility of amending the Constitution of Ukraine and the Crimea and the definition of almost Russian autonomy in the composition of Ukraine. Apparently, this is a violation of the Constitution, the laws in force in Ukraine. And we need to look at this situation. And in case the Supreme Council of Crimea continues to act in an anti-Ukrainian way, to approve the decision to dissolve this Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u35	I beg you, Freedom Union, one minute, National Deputy Chevchenko. Please, Edward, a minute, Leonov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u36	A venerable Ukrainian community! Edward Leonov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Betrayal took place in the country. State traitors are here in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And when there are rumors that there are no Russian politicians in Maidan, there are no Russian politicians in Ukraine, they're here in the session room. And I'm sure that many of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine here are, unfortunately, Russian passports in their pockets. And they prepare a spare airport to escape from the Ukrainian people to Russia and to other warm states, other states. It's about Crimea. In the Crimea, there was an open rebellion in the first place. When the people who call themselves the Supreme Council of Crimea, the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Crimea, are in fact speaking in secret about the violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and the violation of Ukraine’s national integrity. These people must be drawn to criminal responsibility. For these crimes, there should be no statute of limitations. These are state criminals who should be persecuted by the authorities now, not caught by boys and girls, blaming them for nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you know there's work going on, negotiations are going on with the changes to the Constitution. So I'm asking the faction leaders to make their proposals for further consideration of these issues. Please, two, three minutes. Give me three minutes. And from the non-fractional, let's give it a word. Who's speaking? Later. I beg of you, the Freedom Union, your proposals. Who's speaking? Andrew Mohnik, please have three minutes. What suggestions for working on changes to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u38	Andrew Mohnik, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The position of our political power lies in the following. There is a social and political crisis in the country, a deep social and political crisis, and Parliament is still able to resolve it today. If he's late for his decisions, he'll just be away from this historic process. So if we are to be with you as people who have been authorized by the community to perform certain tasks, we have to assume responsibility accordingly. First. We really need to take steps to establish a constitutional process and to resolve in the shortest possible time the question of what was illegally returned to the 1996 Constitution. And also to initiate all-encompassing changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. As long as this process takes place, a working group will be set up in which representatives of all factions will work to signal the settlement society, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" insists on putting in order the daily bill of Law 4172, which has been registered by the National MPs of Peace and Schwaik, to remove any conditions regarding the release, the cessation of criminal persecution of members of the protest, and the name of this law in general for the rehabilitation of participants in action, mass action, protest. If we do not do so, it is obvious that the street will continue to speak and the escalation of the conflict will increase. And then not the Supreme Council will speak, but the community will speak directly using its right, as defined in the fifth article of the Constitution, direct national expression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u39	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Alexander Turchinov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! The whole of Ukraine is an independent region of Lviv or Donetsk, Crimea, Lugansk or Kiev waiting for change, for real power in Ukraine. People don't care about the name of the future president, it's a secondary issue. The question is, Are we going to change the system of government or not? We're going to break the concentration of all power in one hand when one person's whim is tossing or killing. Or we can build a European democratic state, and we have all the preconditions, the honourable colleagues. I'm primarily addressing our opponents from the Party of Regions. Responsibility for Ukraine is for each of us. For the blood that spills on each of us. And to stop Ukraine from slipping into a chasm is our responsibility to the country, to our children. So we need to stop talking, we need to stop stalling, and we need to make decisions about restoring the constitutional system in Ukraine, a constitutional system that was broken by artificial means, illegally in 2010. There are specific, real mechanisms for this. There was a constitutional act that the Supreme Council could adopt. We have heard many criticisms about this. There's a faster mechanism. Our faction was introduced by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitutional Court Act. Under this law, the Constitutional Court can correct its illegal decisions by itself until it is too late. And voting for this law can take place today in the presence of political will. What's more, we've already worked out a detailed text of constitutional changes that have already been adopted by the Supreme Council and which have passed the expertise of the Venice Commission. It is these changes that the Ukrainians are waiting for, the changes that will rebuild our country's democratic system, where Parliament is not artificially the technology of buttoning, but a body that makes responsible decisions and forms a government where there is a balance between branches of government, where there are independent courts and regardless of the party ticket that lies in the pocket. It is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u41	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u42	It's time to vote on these questions immediately. In Parliament, all the materials for this are, not only political will. A working group has been created that can already issue draft documents for which to vote tomorrow. And our obligation, our duty, is to give 300 votes for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u43	National Deputy Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. The honourable electorate, the honourable colleagues, would like to correct a few myths first, starting with the Constitutional Court’s changing the Constitution acting in an illegal way. The role of the Constitutional Court is defined by our Constitution: to analyse constitutionally certain laws. The Constitutional Court's appeal to the deputies, I stress, not only the Party of the Regions, but also today's opposition, has considered the issue of amending the Constitution (Law 2222) and has determined that the procedure has been violated, and accordingly this law is not constitutional. But we shouldn't hang on to each other right now, we shouldn't blame each other, we shouldn't manipulate facts like the fact that there are already materials in the Supreme Council that we can consider about going back to the Constitution in 2004, it's not. What I'm going to say is that there's a willingness to cooperate, there's a normal, absolutely constructive dialogue, there's a normal proposal that our colleagues made yesterday from Fatherland that makes it clear that the way forward is to restore the Constitution and implement the parliamentary-presidential republic. There is a willingness to form a joint working group to be joined by all factions, including representatives of the working group that was formed by the President of Ukraine and that came out as soon as possible with a coherent text that the Supreme Council could vote on as soon as possible. There is a willingness immediately, as such a text is harmonized, to vote in the Supreme Council. There is a willingness to announce a recess until now, with only the Supreme Council's Calendar Plan. It's the fragile, but the ground for compromise is what people expect of us -- it can be a positive signal for the international community. And today we must overcome our prejudice and follow this course. So I'm proposing and voting all of us now on a calendar plan, but still, to build up courage, to delegate our representatives to faction leaders the right to support the initiative on the working group and to allow this working group to prepare the changes that are being made by opposition colleagues today. Our Communist colleagues are ready to propose, and the Party of the Regions is also ready to make proposals, but they're not yet in the Supreme Council, and we have to do that. Even a proposal was made, over 226, perhaps even 300 signatures would be under this bill, which would determine the social consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u45	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the leader of the factions, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u46	Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, our party's position is that these changes to the Constitution should be made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 13 of the Constitution. Secondly, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, we should approve with you the Temporary Commission, determine the task. And we think what we've achieved needs to be determined in our decision. This is the direction of work on changes and approval of the parliamentary republic or the parliamentary-presidential republic. We, the faction of the Company, have made concrete proposals today for changes to the Constitution and have suggested what needs to be done. The content of this is the abolition of the presidency, and we, the faction of the Company and the party as a whole, are deeply convinced of this, and these bloody events in Ukraine today show that it is precisely the struggle for the President's office at the expense of the lives of Ukrainian citizens that must be stopped. This is a referendum on the limitation of the President's powers and the definition of Ukraine as a federal republic. And with regard to those calls that have now been made regarding the prohibition of the activities of the Supreme Council of Crimea, first of all, we need to start by disbanding the district councils of Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv, Ternopil, Ravenski, Lutsky, Volinsky for failing to comply with the laws of Ukraine first, forming paramilitary formations, banning the counting of taxes, and many other crimes have already been committed. And that's where we have to start. It's a reaction to what you're doing by destroying the state of Ukraine. Secondly, I would like to give Ukrainian citizens another piece of information about why this noise was made in relation to the laws that were passed by 16 numbers and who is doing it. January 16th, I mean. The main problem, the honourable electorate, as well as the respected journalists, is that one of the laws that, in the first place, provided for the identification of each organization, the non-state public organization that receives money from abroad for its activities, that it is an organization that receives this money, should register to the state as used in this money, are the so-called grantoids. And they are practicing today, screaming all over Ukraine. Because it was the same Americans and Europe that used these developmental special funds to form the fifth column in Ukraine that did everything. And Nuland, by the way, the Deputy Secretary of State of the United States, explained, and, distinguished journalists, told the people of Ukraine that since 1991 these organizations had received $5 billion in subversive activities against the people of Ukraine. This is what we wanted to settle, and when they were scared, and the security forces were afraid, we made this noise, accusing us of trying to put order in terms of national security and the protection of the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u47	Faction Impact, leader of the Vitaly Klitschko faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u48	My fellow Members, once again, I would like to remind you that the political crisis and the key task for all of us, for all of us, for all the politicians, for all the deputies who have gathered in the walls of the Supreme Council, is to do everything they can to make sure that this crisis does not happen so that people will be heard why they came out. I want to remind you once again that not only did many people in Kiev go to Midan. People went out to other cities and it's not just Western Ukraine, it's also Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv. People came out because laws don't work in the country, there are no laws. Just because there's no prospects, there's no work, there's no justice, people are out and they're offering to reboot the system. Our task, we've offered one of the ways: to allow power to be distributed today. No one wants to be dependent on the mood of one person, and that monopoly that is in the state today, we see what it leads to. Returning to the Constitution in 2004 is one way. How did it happen that the Supreme Court overturned the decision of 300 votes of the supreme legislative body, the Supreme Council? It wasn't in a constitutional way. And that's why we can now, people are expecting decisions from us, not slander, because we can adopt the Constitution for six months, and people are standing and waiting for a decision today. If we don't make that decision, it's going to be a new escalation. I want to warn everyone: we have to do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen. So one way out of this situation is to go back to the Constitution in 2004, and then we can talk about the new Constitution. And we're going to have enough time, enough time to talk, work out what it takes, six months to adopt a new version of the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u49	Thank you. The non-factions have been identified. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that exactly 20 years ago, in 1994, Ukraine encountered a similar, somewhat similar political crisis today. This crisis resulted in parliamentary and presidential elections for the term. For the then president and the then composition of the Supreme Council, courage and intelligence were sufficient to go to the early elections so as not to provoke opposition and bloodshed in Ukraine. Unfortunately, for today's power: for today's President, for today's parliament, that is not enough courage. Because if we had courage with you, we would have made decisions that would not lead to bloodshed, we would have made decisions that would not allow Ukrainian citizens to die, that would kill people. Today, the whole country is looking at us, the Supreme Council: whether we are able to solve the crisis with you or if we have enough civil courage to sacrifice our own ambitions, political interests for the sake of uniting the country, for the sake of getting out of the crisis. What I see in the Supreme Council today, unfortunately, is that there is no such responsibility in Parliament. Neither in the next session were they able to make decisions, not now. We're still pulling the cat by the tail, we're not making a decision. Vladimir Vasilovich, specific suggestions. Let's go in if we can get out of the situation -- change to the Constitution, let's go into the constitutional process right now and let's make a decision without breaking up (I'm stressing once again) in order to make changes to the Constitution. Next. Five people were killed. Why does the Supreme Council not answer that question? Kidnapping, torture, and torture of Ukrainian citizens. Why is the Supreme Council silent? I think the Supreme Council needs to make the right decisions to set up a commission to investigate these facts. Next. A colleague of Pinzenik spoke, stressed: The laws of January 16 are in force. Today we have a decision to make with you on the actual repeal of the January 16 laws. So there's no more reason to fight. Next. The Constitutional Court, which has made illegal decisions, has resulted in this crisis. The Constitutional Court must have its composition reviewed, at least in the part appointed by the Supreme Council. And the last. Dear colleagues, listen to the voice of the people, to the voice of the mind. Communists aren't from the people, so they're laughing. Shut up, you parasites! So, what do you need? If you and I don't make decisions right now, the only way out is by presidential and parliamentary elections as soon as possible. And the one who laughs! Are you a monument to Lenin’s work? Why didn't you protect him? You're laughing. You're not able to protect your own Lenin, and you're sitting there laughing. And the country is crumbling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u51	Oleg Valeriyovich! Oleg Valeriyovich, please. I'm talking to you. Please make an offer for parliament to dissolve. I'll send it to the committee, we'll ask the committee to consider it, and I'll put your proposal to the vote. I'm expecting you to draft a decision like that. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. I'm asking you, we have 43 deputies who are non-fractional, so I'm still asking Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please. You have three minutes. Postfaction calls for Vladimir Mikhailovich to speak. Please. Let's hear it!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. As necessary, I'll remind you of the faction formation regulations. Calm down. Calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this week we will have a plenary without fruitful negotiations. At the same time, a quick and reasonable compromise is needed. Such a compromise that would rule out a strong scenario for further developments in Ukraine. We need to have a dialogue in two dimensions. The first is getting the country out of conflict. We need to do this now. And the other one. The definition of a system to organize Ukraine. These two problems may need to be linked and discussed together. In order for a group to think of it, not all non-fractional deputies, what would have to be done? Prepare a document that could be called a treaty, a memorandum, whatever the power of the law. Under the terms of agreement and signature of this document by the president and deputies of 226, 300 is desirable. What can be predicted of him, fellow believers? Principles for the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. The situation is unusual, but there must be a government formed that will receive support. The other one. Answers to all the questions raised by society. In the absence of time, I will not count them. To outline the approaches, principles and principles of the country's functioning -- as we see it together. Step-by-step changes to the Constitution with specific dates and fuses to avoid possible scenario when this document is not implemented. What might these fuses be? What document can be used to bind him? To finalize the proposal for an act, but to provide for the following conditions: the imperative mandate and the formation of a government exclusively by factions. That's a problem that can give birth. Changes to the Constitutional Court Act. Perhaps a reference to the Constitutional Court should be considered. And in sync, these decisions will be made if the arrangements are not implemented. And one more thing. Make the decision to hold local elections where it is long needed. I think it might be a topic for discussion and discussion at the level of faction leaders and adoption of appropriate recommendations. Otherwise, we'll talk. The country won't wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Decree No. 3565 on the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation is under consideration. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of the Committee on Rules, the MP's ethics, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the proposed draft Supreme Council regulation on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation prepared and supported by the Committee at its meeting of 6 more, I would like to stress, on 6 November last year. The project is proposed to start the work of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 4, 2014, which is what we did yesterday. And finish it on July 18, 2014. During the fourth session of the Supreme Council, the draft calendar plan is: for plenary meetings, 11 weeks, for committees, commissions and factions, 7 weeks, for the work of Ukrainian national deputies with voters, 6 weeks and eleven hours of questions to the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Calendar Plan project envisions work, including July 7-11 in plenary mode. There's an offer, fellow conspirators, a plenary week to move to July 1st week, from July 1st to July 4th, and a week from July 7th to July 11th to work on the committees. Please support the Calendar Plan project, taking into account the above-mentioned proposals and accept the draft regulation as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u55	Any questions? None. Have a seat. Are the proposals understood? Exchange of thoughts? Please register with the factions for two minutes to discuss the matter. Please. I beg you, Freedom Union, National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Igor Schweitz.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u57	Please give Igor to Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u58	Igor Schwaika, deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, first and foremost, is what we've been saying since yesterday at the opening of the next session of the Supreme Council. Today, society is in a huge social and political crisis, when we were given a daily order on February 4-7, separately on February 4, prepared as if by the Conciliation Council -- that was lie number one, because the Conciliation Council on Monday did not approve any decision on which the Supreme Council will work. If this is the autonomy of the Supreme Council apparatus, it does not meet the requirements of the law. If the Rules Committee had to work on the Calendar Plan. But, I emphasize, based solely on the Rules, and to present it in the sessional room, it should have been reported to the committee’s head. There has been such a situation that the Heads of the Rules Committee, who should be on the watch for law enforcement, do not exist. If we don't have the head of the committee, we have two first deputies from the strike faction and the fatherland faction. Who gave reason to speak to a representative of the Communists as Secretary of the Committee? And most importantly, society today, the issues that are being put into the agenda do not reflect the real picture of the needs of Ukrainian society. Our current Calendar Plan should begin with the amendment of the Hostages Act to the Rehabilitation Act. And then we have to go to the Constitution and quickly, legally settle this process. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u59	Glory to Ukraine! Dear brother, the issue of the Calendar Plan, not the laws, is being considered, at least listen to the question. Well, it shouldn't be either. Who's from? Paul Rosenko, please, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u60	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, the committee representative told us that this calendar plan was approved by the committee on November 6th of the previous year. But, colleagues, I just want to remind you that there are massive protests in Ukraine on November 6th of the previous year. Millions of Ukrainian citizens today are on the streets of the entire country, not only in Kiev, but again, throughout the country. Today, the radicalization of society is getting worse every day. The situation is very tense and difficult. Ukraine is in a difficult political crisis. And we already have difficult and economic processes. That's why the impact fraction position is the next. That we should not leave the session hall, interrupt the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a day, for two weeks, until we answer all the questions that society is asking us here in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is not just a return to the 2004 Constitution. This is the question that the law that was passed last week, the end of political persecution, it doesn't actually work, it's a dead law. He won't work, we have to look at him. We need to improve legislation on the abolition of laws by January 16th. We need to talk about the prospects and directions for reforming the Ukrainian government. We have to do this immediately. So talk about the fact that next plenary week we're either traveling around the districts or working on a committee is impossible. The Impact Group is offering three weeks to work here in the session room until a solution is found from today's extremely difficult.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u61	Dear National Deputies! We have not established the order of the day session, nor any law. There are conditions for three opposition factions. Until the issue of constitutional reform is addressed, no questions, these are your terms, cannot be considered in the Supreme Council. I'd like you to confirm the order of the day, where there are these laws that you're asking to approve the calendar plan. Let the work commission work out the law, and we have to work every day. You don't want to do this! Why are you lying to each other? What laws do you make, Paul Rosenco, if you do not establish the order of the day?Oh, my God! There are no such laws! Your proposal is to consider constitutional reform and then consider others. I'm going to tell you that there is no law for a given moment that can be considered under constitutional reform. There's no law! What will you consider for three weeks?Oh, my God! Once you've told me, I'm giving you an answer and I'm giving you an answer to all the national MPs. Dear friends, to know how we're going to work, we need a calendar plan and we need to establish the agenda, and then we need to look at it! And you don't want to do that! [[B in m in s a l in]] You'll have a replica later! There won't be a replica! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, who's still going? Party of regions. This is Vadim Koleschenko speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u62	Faction of the Party of the Regions, Vadim Kolesnichenko, town-hero Sevastopol. Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! [[B in m in s a l in]] We've all become eyewitnesses of Parliament's inaction, born with the word "prostance" at the "closure" of thought, blowing up the situation in Ukraine. For almost two years, the blockade of Parliament, the reluctance and the inability to work have led the country today to a civil confrontation, the authors of which are representatives of the opposition. And now again, we are trying to impose a word of error that covers the absence of responsibility for the future of our country and the refusal to answer to the people of Ukraine for the wages paid by the people who are in the mines today, by the machines, in their jobs. For everyone, it is clear and obvious that Parliament should work, as a general rule, the calendar plan should be adopted. And the fact that the opposition has not even introduced any draft laws and does not wish to adopt them as an agenda once again suggests that between the three leaders of the opposition, who are referred to as “treasures”, there is no agreement, each of them sees and thinks of himself as a married general or a hetman with a flat, they don't care that the country has to work. What three, five, ten-week cooperation might be involved when there is not even one draft law that could be considered? We will therefore do, if we do not know how, by law, we approve the calendar plan that we have put in place, and then we begin to adopt the agenda and consider reasonable draft laws that will preserve stability in Ukraine and ensure its prosperity and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u63	The faction of the Ukrainian Company, National Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u64	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. The Company's faction supports the proposal for acceptance as a basis and throughout the calendar plan of our fourth session. But the faction thinks it's necessary to look after it, it's meant when it's free time, but what needs to be done more intensely, from the point of view of working today. Because we need to get out of the next, a lot of questions that we have put into our daily lives, and especially those questions that require and qualitatively change the process of preparing all the draft laws and regulations, and especially the content of those draft laws in the first order that the people of Ukraine require today. The Company's faction, by making such a proposal, has come to the conclusion that we will insist on abolishing pension reform and medical reform, and we will insist on introducing a moratorium on forced housing, as well as a Code of Labour Code on the organization of work on weekends and non-working days, the introduction of a penny 0.5 percent of the delay in each day of unpaid wages from the total to the benefit of the same workers who work, this is also the first step in preventing the increase in prices and tariffs on residential services. That's why we, the Communists, and we insist that today, by adopting and voting for this calendar plan, we review the issue of the workload of the work of the Supreme Council, based on the fact that, in the first place, we need to make the decisions that the people of Ukraine really require to be both work and pay, and at the same time we can pay the salary, and we can go to the same hospital, first of all, so let's say, to think about the pension level of insurance. I mean, really, questions are a lot and a lot of questions. The Company's faction is proposing to do just that by approving the calendar plan today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u65	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, National Deputy Andrew Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u66	Arsenia Yatsenuk, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u67	Please Arseny Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u68	Mr. Head, the Fatherland faction does not support voting for the calendar plan, as the purpose of this vote is to take a break from the Supreme Council until Victor Janukovic returns from Sochi. That's why we address you and urge Parliament to sit down every day. That's the first one. The other one. Do not try to delay the time without solving the problem and order of the day, which has already been approved by the Ukrainian people, namely the lifting of the dictatorial powers of the current President, the restoration of the constitutional order in the country, and the return of power to the Ukrainian people. That's why, Mr. Head, we're asking you to have Viktor Janukovic come to the Ukrainian Parliament as he's already arrived to keep the Party of the Regions from falling apart. And here, directly, in Parliament, he gave instructions to vote on his faction for Ukraine to keep as a sovereign state, to make the Ukrainians feel that there is, indeed, a legal order in the state that we have a President, not a dictator, that we have a Parliament, not a buttoned-up state, and that we have a solution to the crisis in Ukraine, not its exacerbation and destruction of a sovereign, independent state. So please do not push through a plan that will allow Parliament to rest. They have not yet done so as to rest, each day meeting and making decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u69	I, Your Honor, would like us to approve the calendar plan. There are proposals to vote every day. Make suggestions, but we have to confirm them. Next, the order of the day, you raise the question of a number of laws. And the order of the day is these laws. We have more than a thousand laws that are considered by the committees. We include a weekly order. weekly schedule. You're not looking at the weekly order. Order sessions -- you don't look, calendar plans -- you don't approve. What laws should we consider? You say the Constitution. Yes, we noticed that Turkinov worked there with his colleagues today, and something will appear tonight. Working group. The faction leaders agree, let's work. Let's work to get something out and look at it in this room. But nothing's going on! [[B in m in s a l in]] The replica. I didn't insult you, there won't be a word, don't waste time! From the non-fractionals, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] So read the Rules, you're not reading the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] I called! I gave you an explanation on your question. I didn't insult you. Sit down! Let's listen to the non-frustration MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] National MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! The postfractions offer this in February instead of the second week that will now go, instead of working on the committees to make the planar, and so the whole February will be plenary, because the following is once again plenary. And remove the problem. There will be compromises with one side and the other. So we have the opportunity then to have three weeks of plenary and vote in favour of the calendar plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u71	Did you hear the offer? Did you hear the offer? May I put it to a vote? Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u72	No, it's not. So, the honourable national MPs, there's an offer of what? I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote. If she doesn't get the votes, I'll make an offer that the week following the week would be. The decision to be a member of the plenary has been made. So you made an offer? Yeah. I'm asking for your attention! May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the nation? I'm betting on a draft Decree (No. 3565) for adoption as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Please vote. [[11:45:52]] For 185 Against 13, held – 11, not voted – 189. The decision is not taken. Factions please: Region Party – 141, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Company – 31, non-fractional – 13. I'm asking for your attention. Yes, furious, which one? Well, 10 to 14. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm putting this motion to a vote, but it's a week from February 10th to February 14th to work in plenary mode. Understand? I'll bet you a vote on the MP's proposal. Please vote on this calendar plan: to work from week 10 to 14 in plenary mode. Please vote. [[11:47:31]] For-73 Against - 1, held - 10, not voted - 314. The decision is not taken. Are there any more suggestions? Please, Baby, offer. Let's see the factions. The Party of Regions is 9, Fatherland is 14, Vitalia Klicka is 8, Freedom is 0, the Company is 31, non-fractional is 21. Please, just a minute, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, let's vote to make all the rage work in the plenary to solve the crisis in the country, what I'm talking about. Let's not break up, let's not stop work until we make decisions that will help solve the crisis in Ukraine. No rest, no breaks. People are standing on the streets, waiting for us to make decisions. Let's vote: February's full plenary until the country's decisions are made. Vladimir Vasilovich, please put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-05-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that no decision will be made in February or March. We won't. I'll make an announcement. Now, I'm going to call off tomorrow morning so the faction leaders and the working committee will prepare the Constitutional Reform Act to review the calendar plan for their work today, and tomorrow morning I'm going to put a motion to the vote agreed upon by all the factions. So I declare the morning session closed. I'm asking the deputies after lunch. work today on the committees. Work on the committees. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll continue the session. Good-bye.
