ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. I'm calling on the heads of the MP factions and groups, and I'm asking you to secure the work of the people's deputies in your workplace. We're preparing to register. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that in accordance with the Order amending the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh occasion of September 2, this year, you gave me authority in the event of the need to convene non-planned sessions. That's what I used to do. The main purpose of today's session, the main purpose of today's work, is to consider and adopt the most important package of laws for our country that ensure an effective fight against corruption. I am convinced that all the political forces that go to elections promise our citizens an effective fight against corruption, a persistent fight against corruption. But not only do we have to promise, we really have to do this. And today we're going to have that opportunity. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Traditionally, I inform you that today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Korzhov Anatolia Leonidovich and Pavel Andrija Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. [[10:08:28]] There are 232 national deputies registered in the hall. Morning session announced. Dear colleagues, please calm down. And now, according to the Rules, I want to make some announcements. First. According to the statement and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitali Andriyovich, from the MP's "For Peace and Stability" group. Next announcement, dear colleagues. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy, Pinchuk Andriy Pavlovich, as part of the parliamentary group "Economic Development". Better late than never. Yes. And the final announcement, your honor. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Iljuk Artem Alexandrovich from the MP's Economic Development Group. I am also given a draft announcement that I am obliged to announce. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary group "For Peace and Stability" meeting of 6 October 2014, I report on the election of the new authorised representative of the MP group "For Peace and Stability" of the national deputy Kozuba Alexandr Andrijaovich. And, honourable colleagues, the information is requested to announce to the national deputy who came to the head of the Supreme Council that on October 3, 2014, I will inform you that a statement has been received from the national deputy of Goncharov Sergey Vasilovich that he was in Ukraine in September 2014 and did not take part in a meeting with the head of the Russian Federation, Sergey Narishkini. According to Goncharov’s statement at this time, Goncharov was at that time in the city of Mirgorod Poltava. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we today have the opportunity to speak to the people's deputies from MPs and factions. Please sign up for the performances, please. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Tajnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! Honorable Society, Brothers and Sisters of Ukraine! It would seem that our Ukrainian Parliament, in completing the work of this cadence, would have to work actively and in those two days that we have left to work here in the session hall and to adopt the laws of 7 and 14 would have to give a productive vote. But the morning registration showed that there are only 232 deputies here. This means that if some in the process of dealing with the impeccable issues that we today have to discuss and approve concerning anticorruption legislation, we may not be able to count the quorum. And that's why, Mr. Head, actually impeding the election campaign, and someone thinks that they might not be going to work right now, I demand on behalf of the faction that today all the votes are printed in public media. So that our voters, so that the Ukrainians know clearly who and how they want to change the system of power in the Ukrainian state, who and how they want to fight, not in words, but in action, against corruption. Because today is a very important day. And we approve of the initiative that we now have to consider anti-corruption laws. And the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, as always in this House, votes in favour of any initiative related to the fight against corruption, no matter who is the author of this initiative, and votes in full and 100%. And we're calling right now, because there's low visibility, we're calling for all forces to mobilize all the factions of state, and we're calling for 100% votes for the laws that will enable Ukrainian society to fight that internal enemy -- corruption. There is a great benefit that you and I have approved the Book of Illustration Act. And in the tiredness of the Illustration Law is a section of the wealth illustration. And this is part of the fight against corruption. Not in this House, but in another way we will have to undo the parliamentary intricacy, the judicial and the presidential. We will have to adopt a decision on the right of the people to recall national MPs, officials and judges, which is also part of the fight against corruption. We're going to have to give all government officials the right to go through a lie detector and a polygraph. This systematic fight against corruption will help us to fight both the internal and the external Moscow, the Putinian, the bandit’s enemy. Let us concentrate on our strength, fight, and win!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u3	May I see the National Deputy Chumak of the Strike faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u4	Count, dear Mr. Head, dear fellows! The war continues for almost 8 months in eastern Ukraine. This war for our future kills the best Ukrainian daughters and sons of the Ukrainian people. But for almost 23 years we have been living in another war -- a war declared by corrupt MPs and ministers, officials and judges, prosecutors and law enforcement officials, tax collectors and tax collectors. And this corrupt war we're still losing, and it's also hurting and killing. Imagine that the corruption losses for 2013 were 60 billion dollars, almost 3 defence budgets, 6 medical budgets and 10 education budgets. It's the same money that would give each budget a salary and the pensioner a pension at least twice as high. That's an average salary of 7,000 and a pension of 5,000. This is the amount that the government is asking international donors to maintain the country’s viability. This war kills no less than hot. It also kills the economy because it cripples the investment climate and prevents it from developing. It hurts people because it kills medicine and gives them quality help. Hundreds of sick people are sentenced to death each year because officials buy drugs from AIDS and hepatitis at high prices, which is why they are not enough for all who need it. It kills the future because it cripples education and prevents young, talented people from getting quality education without bribes, but that's not even the point. It kills the state because it undermines the citizens' trust that justice can be guaranteed in this state, and without it, there is no state, and that is the result of people going out on the Maidan. And that's why we see in the streets today: instead of an activist prosecutor, instead of a court-warming crowd, instead of a jury of defendants, a garbage tank, instead. A fist to the face. If the state fails to trust itself, it will become a rule and we will lose the country. Today we still have a chance -- a chance to restore that same trust. It is today that Parliament can vote on an anticorruption package of laws that could break the course of this undeclared corruption war. And it's very good that we have an agreed and consolidated position of the President and the government on these projects. Now every parliamentarian must show his own level of public awareness and support these laws. I believe that today is not a vote for the government and the President's package the same betrayal of the country as the vote for the dictatorship's laws on January 16th. And trying to cover up such a non-vote with your own, with your soon-to-be-registered, legislative initiatives is a banal osmification that none of the voters will poison. Today, Parliament is to demonstrate unity. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u5	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u6	We, the strike party faction, have consistently stood up for anti-corruption. It was by our insistence that the parliamentary benefits were lifted, and it was by our insistence that the shameful practice of mass buttonage was destroyed. That's why we're addressing all the parliamentarians today, so let's all prove once again that the positive changes in our country are possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, from the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u8	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I would like to begin by saying thanks for the words of support to me personally, and regardless of political views and political affiliation, those who have expressed these words of support have upheld the law and order in our country. Today, according to the previous speaker, we need to protect people from the traffic, we need to finish people's rights with machine guns to create justice and scare people. The law and order must return to the country, and we must protect all our citizens, regardless of what language they speak or where they live, and that is our responsibility. Of course, today is a very difficult situation in the country, and we realize that we are experiencing the consequences of a major military conflict, which unfortunately has not yet ended, we believe that it will end, but today it is still going on. How many died, especially in July and August? We're talking more than 10,000 military casualties, and we don't know about civilians. Why did these people die? Look, I'm asking you why not? They died for Ukraine in their own understanding. But why, when there was a truce, when dialogue could continue and doors were opened? 57 people were killed before the first truce. Indeed, 70 to 80 per cent of the population of Donbass were under the control of the Ukrainian authorities today. Today, on the contrary, 70 per cent of the population of Donbass have actually lost control of Ukraine. And today we must engage in dialogue to restore the unity of our country. Dialogue and only dialogue. What do we have today in terms of so-called reforms of prosperity and stability? We're on the threshold of cold winter today. Few people know this, but the country should know: for the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, we have not only begun to import and import gas from Ukraine for $385 at the Harkov price, at the price of the Harkov Agreements. Kuzbass and I are starting to import coal for the first time at a price of about $100 a tonne. We don't have enough gas to pay for the currency, we'll pay for the coal. The result is the collapse of the bracelet and the freezing of pensions. We see today, unfortunately, that the bracelet has been depreciated by 62 per cent and the inflation is real 20 per cent, and pensions and salaries are frozen. People get twice as much as they get.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u9	Give me half a minute to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u10	People are actually getting twice as much as they would be obliged to receive today. This is the result of the actions of today's authorities. The opposition, the Opposition Block, will protect people, protect them against impunity and protect the social interests of our citizens. We have a duty to protect pensions and salaries. Of course, we must abolish pension reform and return it to our women.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u11	Thank you. In half a minute, I'm giving you the opportunity to finish the performance. People's deputy to China, from the MP's Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! The Economic Development Union supports the vitality of adopting a package of legislative acts to strengthen the fight against corruption. The unprecedented scale of corruption in Ukraine is a scourge that destroys the economy and threatens the existence of the State of Ukraine. We urge all national MPs, factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to turn an important day into a system-wide decision to fight corruption into another stage of political electoral campaign. The issue of combating corruption is a matter of strategic importance and all current, personal and inter-political competition must be at the back. But laws were to be passed against corruption. We pay attention and demand that we understand that the primary source of corruption is human resources policy. As long as Ukraine decides to appoint high-level government posts on the basis of party quota portfolios, service the interests of political and financial groups, the problems of corruption in Ukraine will only increase. In principle, we pay attention to this and point out once again that this is the basis of the requirement of society, the new quality of authority. And people will no longer close their eyes to imitation actions in the context of forming a system of power based on the principles of statehood, professionalism and ability to work in the interests of people and the state of Ukraine. At the same time, the risks of socio-economic collapse are increasing. We have to say that the government has essentially lost the economic and industrial bloc to manage the economy of Ukraine. And in August of this year, the decline in industrial production is already negative 21 percent, in some areas, 40-60 percent. There are absolutely no systemic actions, which we have repeatedly talked about in this room and called for contact -- the National Bank, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers. The unprecedented devaluation of the bracelets has essentially destroyed the capacity of Ukrainian citizens and has profoundly exacerbated socio-economic problems, in fact, of people on the verge of survival. We are confident that today, more than ever, it is necessary to ask about the draft budget for the following year. And once again, the risks Ukraine faces are no longer just a threat to socio-economic development – they threaten statehood, territorial integrity. And only working in the interests of the state on the basis of systematic, highly professional actions can save the state from a collapse and a major crisis that is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u13	Let me finish. We finished the show. Thank you. Please, Donny's national deputy from the "Northern European Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u14	Alexander Donnie, Kolomishte and Horatio. Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative that we vote on laws to combat corruption today. On behalf of the group, it must be said that the group unanimously supports the Presidential Bill, which aims to combat corruption. And that means that we need to clean up both power and economics and politics. And now that I didn't even think of talking from this rostrum after Maidan. Fighting corruption is first of all transparency, it's fighting the secret. I never thought I'd have to protect myself in time after Maidan's information program. I'm concerned that UT-1 is trying to throw away the Schuster program that anyone can treat, but it's one of the biggest programs. And during the election period, to rule out one of the biggest information programs is, excuse me, it's shadow action, it's the fight against freedom of speech, not the other way around. I think that journalists and politicians should protect this information program. Now, what they're talking about in the country. As a candidate for the Majority District yesterday on behalf of the group, he asked the Conciliation Council about two bills: one voted by deputies and one not put to the vote. Both bills are urgent needs in the countryside. The first is the Heritage Act. He's sitting there, Sergey Mishchenko, the author who's been penetrating this bill for a year. We broke through, we supported him, we voted. And I'm sorry, he's still not signed by the President. I'm speaking to the Head of the Supreme Council, yesterday I talked about it at the Conciliation Council, they talk about it at Volina, at the Hmelničin, at Cherkaščina, in every district, in every district. Grandma can't pay 10,000 to build the house that her late husband built. Well, that's not normal. Please let this be the final question. And secondly, what we put on the Conciliation Council yesterday is the issue of reviewing pension reform. Well, I'm sorry, each of us, and we're the Midianian Coalition, we talked when Yanukovic was in power that we would come and review the pension reform. Half a year now, I'm sorry, but why aren't we looking? Look, today's the last day of the Supreme Council's work (we'll still be sitting on October 14th), we're sitting in the middle of the day. Why are we sitting in the middle of the day and in the south? Can't we consider pension reform? Why are we going to be looking at a few bills today, and south what? The MPs are going to talk? That's not normal, so we're asking the question at least on October 14th to go back to reviewing the pension reform, once, and finally sign the Heritage Act. That's what people in the country dream about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ilik, Fatherland faction. Will he speak himself, or will he pass on the word? He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Sobolev. As the People's Deputy Sobolev goes to the rostrum, I inform the Donya People's Deputy that the Heritage Act is signed and sent to the President's Administration in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u16	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Representatives of the Media! We have a unique action today, if it's not a anti-corruption company, then I think the whole package of 15 bills has to be considered and approved in the session room. What are these bills? These are bills that regulate not only the issue of combating corruption today, but that are really the basis for combating corruption throughout the period of possible existence of the most important things regulated by Ukrainian legislation. First and key question. Two bills that regulate the creation of special bodies that will fight corruption are impossible to exist without actually a key bill that has been tested in the session hall, which was approved in the first reading, which passed the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which received the support of international organisations, namely: the Prosecutor's Office Act, which should be adopted in the second reading. This is a law that opens up the possibility of European status for the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office. Let's think about the so-called "Fule list," which was 10 points. 9 points have been completed today, and these are not only items that we have implemented at the request of the European Parliament, but those are items that we have carried out at the request of the Ukrainian people, because they meet the key positions in the fight against corruption, in the conduct of economic reforms, in order of order in the economy. That is why the question of the prosecutor’s office remains the urgent issue that should be put into the session room and voted. If the public prosecutor's office remains under general supervision, if the prosecutor's office continues to have the right to investigate, the prosecutor's office will never carry out its key law enforcement tasks in the state. That's why the position is one. Today, we will support those bills that have been tabled to combat corruption, but 14 already have the agreement to set up a working group of parliamentary, governmental, presidential prosecutors to ensure that 14 numbers in this room are set up at a fat point and we have completed a real reform of the fight against corruption through the approval of the Public Prosecutor's Act when the Prosecutor's Office becomes a key organ and will exercise its powers under the law that will match European traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had the opportunity to speak. Guys, calm down, please. I would like to stress to you right now what is really in this room, despite the fact that all the political forces are talking about the desire to fight corruption, there are not enough national MPs. And now I want to assign the Secretary of the Supreme Council to put the number of people's deputies on board on factions before we go to the vote on this important package. I'm announcing the presence of the National Deputies in the Hall. The Fatherland faction is 61 national MP present in the hall; the Party of Regions is 25; the Impact Party is 40; the Economic Development is 10; the Peace and Stability Party is 9; the Sovereign European Ukraine is 24; Freedom is 35; the Non-factional is 28. Dear colleagues, I fully support Oleg Tuggnibok's proposal, who spoke from the parliamentary rostrum to publish all the results of the vote on the package of anti-corruption laws, all of them: who voted in favour, who voted "against" who "resisted" who was absent in the hall. For Ukraine to know who is really contributing to corruption and who is willing to fight it. Without any questions or images, they will all be printed in the Voice of Ukraine and distributed in the regions. Dear colleagues, we are about to move on to making a decision. It's very important, your honors, that we, together, can really get into Parliament's decision-making format. I realize that there's not enough people in this room, so I'm going to go to all the faction leaders, the MPs, and I'm going to ask you to ensure everyone's work, and I'm going to stress, every national MP. I'm asking all the national MPs to work closely in their jobs so that we don't make 10 votes on these important issues. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Now we're going to move on to making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down, dear fellows! Calm down, please. I work within the Rules. There is a reference to the Rules, please make changes to the Rules. Dear colleagues, during the Conciliation Council that took place yesterday evening, we decided that we would start discussing and making decisions right from the draft Law on a System of Specially Authorized, Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anticorruption. This law, you remember, did not win the required number of votes last time. At the same time, there are two alternative drafts of the law, which are called drafts of the Anti-Corruption Service Act of Ukraine, which also regulate this important issue. That is, the creation of an anti-corruption body. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in order to start working on these laws and making decisions, we must now vote on Parliament's decision to return to Project 5085. This is a draft of the Law on the System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anticorruption. And the day-to-day inclusion of two alternative laws is 5125 and 5125-1. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote and support. Colleagues, sit down, sit down. Put your hands down, prepare them for the vote. And support the return to the draft Law (registration number 5085) and the inclusion in the agenda 5125, 5125-1. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please support everyone. [[10:37:42]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you very much, dear colleagues! Thank you to all the national deputies who voted in favour of this decision. I'm asking you very much, Your Honor, to show the factions, please. Fatherland 74, Party of Regions 17, Strike 40. 13 – Economic Development – the USG – 6, 27 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35 – non-fractional – 38. Please, Your Honor, so that we can discuss today the entire package of laws that we need to adopt. I ask you to support the proposal for a resilient procedure for addressing these issues, the issues of today's agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the offer. [[10:38:36]] For 213 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. I give the floor to the report on Law 5085 of the President of Ukraine, Ruslan Knazević. After that, the authors of alternative laws will have the opportunity to speak – the National MP of Peace and the National MP of Pashinsky. After a speech from the committee head of the committee, it will be possible to discuss this law from MPs and factions. Please, dear fellows. The word is given to the representative of President Ruslan Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Last time I was reporting on this law, I had, in principle, already outlined its main aspects. But I think it will be imperative to focus once again on the basic positions of the bill that is being proposed today for your consideration. This is about the fact that the mechanism that exists today, the law enforcement mechanism to fight corruption, I think, has demonstrated so much inefficiency that there is no person in this session room who is not convinced of it. So the only way to fight corruption right now is to have an institutional and radical change of authority and create a new body that, in turn, would really take over all the petty powers that are now scattered through a number of different legislative acts among the various law enforcement agencies. The point is that in Ukraine there has long been a need for the creation of a special body that, according to the law, will be empowered to carry out pretrial investigations and conducts, criminal conduct in matters related to the fight against corruption. This is not only in line with the challenges of time, it is also an international legal commitment undertaken by Ukraine many years ago within the framework of the International Organisation for the Fight against Corruption, as part of the ratification of the UN Convention on the Fight against Corruption, within the framework of the Istanbul Round of the International Organization for Trade and Development. Moreover, my fellow Members, I remind you that when signing the memorandum of Ukraine with the International Monetary Fund, among the main items of this memorandum is Ukraine's commitment immediately after the memorandum has been ratified, to take a legislative decision on the establishment in Ukraine of an independent body that, unlike the current system of fighting corruption, would concentrate not only on authority but also on responsibility for the state of the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u19	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u20	This body is proposed to identify the National Anticorruption Bureau and to establish full independence in the formation of its composition. First of all, in the formation of a leader of this body, who will in fact be identified by a special independent competition commission and approved only by the head of state. Instead, no one will be able to release such a manager from his position. Only in cases determined by law can he be released by himself or if he is legally empowered to decide. Moreover, all the members of that body, without exception, will also be selected for their posts solely in the order established by the special competitive commission, and they will be in competition regardless of whether they have been in office until then or not in accordance with the laws of others in the public service, including the law enforcement agencies. For the first time in the history of Ukrainian legislation, it is suggested that the amount of material encouragement and wages paid by employees of this body should be clearly defined to discourage them from any subjective, for example, decision-making factors, whether Parliament or, for example, government in determining the size of such wages. In carrying out a whole range of powers that rely on this body, we can talk about what is actually going to happen in Ukraine at the end of the day, an institution that is capable of taking on the burden of social requirements that confronts Ukrainian society, and we can probably finally ask the very organ that, according to our decision, will start, I hope, an effective fight against corruption, to ask about the results of their activities. Since, according to law, control over the activities of this body relies on the number of the Supreme Council who will have the right to submit their proposals in due course during parliamentary hearings, when considering these matters in the session room, they will receive a full and comprehensive report on the work of this body, to make their proposals and, accordingly, to give due consideration to the freedom of their own voters, in one case or another, to obtain the fullness of the information. At the same time, given the fact that we are now standing before, including our delegation's visit to the International Monetary Fund, given that this bill has already been considered and has not obtained enough votes, we simply do not have the right to postpone this decision, and therefore I call on the session room today to make every effort to get this bill voted on, and then Ukraine will accurately testify to the world that its intentions to fight corruption are truly honest, are responsible and are those who have the prospect of finally overcoming this evil in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u22	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You and I understand very well that corruption is a deadly disease that consumes the body of the state from within, and if we do not overcome this disgraceful phenomenon or minimize this disgraceful phenomenon, the state will die. And that's why, in order not to allow this Parliament to jump, sorry for the slang, on this issue, Freedom was forced, I emphasize -- I had to find legal ways and register my bill so that we could have the opportunity, and we were obliged to consider this issue with this summons. Because it is this Supreme Council, although at the very least atonement for the sins that it has earned, unfortunately, before the Ukrainian people that it should consider and accept the matter. And we are grateful for today’s Supreme Council vote that has just taken place. And that's why we're filming, stressing, filming our bill so that we can consider both the Presidential Bill and the next one that follows ours. Because in our view, it should not be so that we create another body that will lead corruption. We have to write a bill or a law in such a way that we don't allow people who do anti-corruption activities to relax and just solve matters because it's a matter of national security. Appropriately, all the work in the Presidential Bill and in the Pashinsky Bill should be taken into account. And Freedom will support any option, because even for a minute, what brings us closer to overcoming this fight, we will vote for it, otherwise there is no way back for Ukraine. So we got together, we voted, "Freedom," as always, a hundred percent. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u23	Thank you. National MP Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u24	Dear friends, the bill registered on my behalf was developed by a working group led by former government-authorized author Tetjana Blackwall. Why did we go to serve him as an alternative to the president? Because unfortunately, the Presidential Bill does not reflect the challenges that are now in the process of creating this body. What do I mean? We're all talking about changing the Public Prosecutor's Act. Regrettably, the Law on Specially Authorized Subjects in the field of anticorruption is pierced by the direct direction of the Attorney General’s Office. For example, the prosecutor’s office decides on the subject. So, for example, the D.A. can take a criminal case back to the National Bureau of Corruption, pass it on to another body, and so on, we know the problem. And that's why we're with you, I hope, in a week, we're going to vote on a new edition of the Procurator's Act. The second question. We must make this body independent. That's why my bill allows the head of the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption to remove prosecutors without an explanation. Third moment. In the Presidential Bill, all the international contacts of the National Bureau are again through the Attorney General's Office. We propose to give the National Bureau the right to direct contact on behalf of Ukraine on the external market to fight corruption. The fourth moment is fundamentally important. We don't have a clear record of corruption in our legislation, and unfortunately, we don't have it in the Presidential Bill. The fifth moment. You know, I'm impressed, in the Presidential Bill, in the list of articles to be investigated, the Anti-Corruption Bureau doesn't have an article like 190 -- it's a fraud with financial resources. Two thirds of all corruption is government fraud, but this article is somehow lost. There are other comments that make it possible to create an independent one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u25	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u26	An independent, controlled society of the bureau with those powers to really fight corruption. I believe that it is possible to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading of the presidential bill, but it is imperative that the second reading take these principles into account and create an independent National Bureau of Corruption. And for the rest, I'd like to say one more ideological thing. Assignment and release. The Presidential Bill has such an interesting form that the head of the National Bureau of Corruption can be released on the basis of an administrative protocol on corruption. Do you understand? So some district court is going to accept the admin protocol for 210 bracelets of corruption and the head of the National Bureau, which we're talking so much about, is going to be retired. I think we need to set a standard, given that we have a presidential-Parliamentary republic that we need to be freed, either by bringing the President through Parliament, or by filing 150 (Parliamentary-President) or by filing 150 people's deputies. And the same principle: through a competitive commission of appointments. Thank you for your attention. And I'm hoping that we can work together on second reading to adopt a law that doesn't give us the opportunity to set up a branch that we've adopted, but we're going to adopt a law that will allow us to create an independent competent and professional body to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Now, please, the chairman of the committee is Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Then two for, two for against. And before the vote, I would like to give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because the government actually worked on this huge package of anti-corruption laws. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I can only speak for the Presidential Bill: 5085. This bill is a key part of today's anti-corruption project because it speaks of the creation of a new investigative body that will deal with purely high-level corruption. Whatever anyone says about the need to fight corruption must be taken the first step. What Mr. Pashinski's national deputy has just said about, let's say, the flaws of the presidential bill are not true. Because it is the National Anti-Corruption Bureau that can conduct investigations, operational and search-and-search activities in relation to high-level corruption that can only be done without touching business and other issues of economic crime. If we don't punish the judge, the prosecutor, the minister or his deputy for corruption, we won't move out of place at all. We've been waiting 20 years for this from the D.A., the D.A., UBEP and all that. We can wait another 23 years, but nothing will change. The bill proposed by the President, I would like to say that this is a harmonized bill agreed upon by the government, agreed by international donors, agreed by international experts all, agreed by the International Monetary Fund and is a direct requirement for the International Monetary Fund. That's why I insist that we vote for Project 5085. Why? Because projects 5125 and 5125-1 only appeared this morning. Unfortunately, the committee was unable to consider them at its meeting, although it was held yesterday. Therefore, it is not possible to put this to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Alexandre Valentinovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please sign in: two for, two against. Please, Osuhov National Deputy of Ukraine, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u30	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Indeed, we must adopt the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act today, because it is one of the most important laws that this Supreme Council should adopt. The National Anti - Corruption Bureau Act was filed by opposition leaders in 2013 in May. But unfortunately, the law wasn't adopted then, most of them were then gang members of the region and Communists didn't support the bill because they had to engage in corruption, banditry, plundering the Ukrainian state, destroying the Ukrainian army and the economy. Of course, we didn't have to impose this law, we had to put this law on the second day after the Dignity Revolution. Regrettably, the law was not then passed and corruption in our country continues to flourish. Although the European Union always requires us to adopt the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. Of course, international financial institutions don't give us credit because they don't know where those loans are going. Last plenary session we discussed two laws on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union voted a hundred percent for those laws, unfortunately, they were broken. And of course, today the faction again votes 100 percent for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act because it speaks of the responsibility of the highest officials, the highest public officials. This is the President, this is the Cabinet of Ministers, these are the National Deputies, the Prosecutors, the Judges, the heads of the district administrations. Accordingly, this law indicates that the director of the Anticorruption Bureau is to be selected on a transparent system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u31	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u32	And the employees of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau under those laws will be protected both physically and socially. Please support this law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u33	People's deputy Yatzenko, faction of Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! Indeed, the problem is urgent. The only thing that matters if we vote now is to vote first in favour of the Presidential version. And I want to point out, if we're creating an investigative body, of course, the head of this body and the deputy supervisors have to have legal education, like, for example, the Attorney General or other law enforcement officers. And secondly, as a footnote, we need to look at the articles on which this law is distributed in order to avoid interference with business. In fact, there were a lot of complaints from experts about this issue that there might be no interference in the business process that does not concern the work of public authorities. So I propose that we adopt the Presidential Law in the first reading and redraft it, maybe in a week, by October 14th, and adopt such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Rosenko, national MP, strike faction. He's giving the word to Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u36	I ask you to pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u37	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! In the last month, I had about 150 meetings in the courtyards, in the courtyards, where I heard two important questions. First, when will there be peace? And the second important question is, how do you survive a simple Ukrainian citizen's pension of 1,100 dollars and a salary of two thousand dollars? In order to implement reforms in the country, the President must rely primarily on the bills he is introducing today. The Bureau can become a cradle in the fight against corruption. The Presidential Bill, exactly 100 percent, will be able to start a countdown to the great ethnic struggle against corruption and corruption; against the political corruption that the Ukrainian oligarchs who are once again in power are producing clones, including trying to do so in my majority district. But there is the Lord God and he is on the side of the common people; he is on the side of Ukraine and the common Ukrainian people. The strike faction will support the president's bill. Together, we will be able to start a great, unique, historic fight against the evil that is hindering, hindering and possibly hindering reforms that will lead Ukrainian pensioners to have not a thousand dollars of pensions, but to have a decent European pension; young people will have a decent scholarship; and people who work at businesses, factories, factories will have a decent salary. Without corruption, without this point of resistance, without fighting it, without destroying corruption and corruption, it is not possible. But there is another key question: Who will lead this body? We know a number of deserving people who can do this. This will be a major step forward in the fight against the worst scourge in the country. And I'm convinced that this law of the President today is not just about Ukrainian society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u38	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u39	Because it is with his acceptance that we will join forces and remove the major obstacle that prevented us from starting the construction of a new Ukraine for 23 years. Glory to Ukraine and to the fight against corruption!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u40	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u41	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. I think that if it wasn't for the last revolution, if it weren't for us, obviously for us, for the Ukrainians, and for our country in the world, we would only know how such a security of corruption was formed in the very center of Europe. I think it's symbolic that, literally in the last breaths of this cabinet right here in this Supreme Council, we have the opportunity to adopt this law today and, I think, we will definitely accept it. I just want to remind our electors that today they're afraid of fire, they're afraid of Communists because they're not there. There are no ones who thought they were holding God’s beard yesterday, and they also fled knowing that the adoption of this law would apply to them. But, dear fellows, if we don't adopt the Prosecutor's Act, which is corrupt by itself today, I'm not talking about the summit, but it's still corrupt down here. Who, then, will really root out corruption from Ukraine? "Paternality" votes in favour of this bill, we'll give back all the votes we have. And please, Alexander Valentine's Day, on the 14th we'll meet, there's a bill of mine and Vasil Pazinjak that the day of the patronage should be considered the day of the Ukrainian army, the day of the Ukrainian army. I'm asking you very much to put it in the order of the day 14th and vote. This is very important for Ukraine here and especially for Ukraine in the East, where our boys are fighting. This must be done. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions insists that I give them one minute at a time. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u43	Clearly, the fight against corruption. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, of course, fighting corruption is the main thing the state has to do in any part of the world and perhaps in Ukraine first. But the question is, what prevented corruption in the fifth and sixth years? In 2008-2009, when did you have absolute authority, Your Honor? There have been many complaints about the position of the Party of the Regions. Yes, there is a position of individual lawyers regarding the imperfection and incapacity of these laws. But today, most of us support this law from the presence of our colleagues, and we want to see how the fight against corruption will really work. We will not interfere and help you in this process. But I wonder why it's happening now, three weeks before the election, not on the first day of coming to power. I think that responsibility should be in place today in front of every citizen of Ukraine, what is happening in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I would like to give the floor to Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Today, a package of five laws to combat corruption is being submitted to your consideration. The framework document is the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, which will be the first to vote in Parliament's walls, as before, it has generally been adopted solely by regulations or decrees, or by regulations and has never been implemented. Ukraine's National Anti-Corruption Strategy this time prepared by the government, sent to Parliament and signed by the President. And this will ensure that all three branches of Ukrainian power bear full responsibility for the real fight against corruption. In the framework of the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, the key element of the fight against corruption is the creation of a separate body, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which should fight corruption not among the small-scale officials, but primarily among senior managers of the I-II category: prime ministers, ministers, deputies, heads of the TSOVs, district administrators. All those with appropriate governmental powers should be subject to this anti-corruption law. The third bill before you is the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. In fact, it's an anti-corruption code. According to the bill, there is a special procedure for the declaration of income and the cost of all state officials of the highest category. An electronic publication procedure is in place for all statements made by high-ranking Ukrainians. As well as a special procedure to check whether the declaration conforms to the lifestyle of a minister, a deputy, or a high-ranking minister. As part of our anti-corruption strategy, the declaration also includes special graphs that oblige any high-level owner to declare any property, including cash, preciousness and so declare the costs of the relevant public official. The law provides for the establishment of a procedure for monitoring the life and activities of a direct superior. It is meant that if one is written in a declaration and in fact lives by other standards, a special committee, most of which belongs to members of the public, will investigate the life of such a public official, verify the declaration, and publish the facts of corruption. In addition, according to the National Anticorruption Strategy and the Code against Corruption, criminal law has been amended and criminalized. The fourth law passed by the government of Ukraine is the Act of Ukraine amending the definition of the final beneficiaries of legal persons and public officials. In other words, in the case of the adoption of this law, all information on the immovable property of all natural persons, including property for the real estate of all Ukrainian high-owners and members of their families, will be disclosed. Any Ukrainian will be able to access the real estate register and see who is registered to a house, an apartment, and an object of real estate – the minister or his mother-in-law. The bill also provides for the disclosure of all information on the real owners of entrepreneurial activities registered in Ukraine. Because today, there are a number of business entities where the actual owners are either active or former high-ranking individuals registered for offshore companies. After the adoption of this law, we will receive real information about real owners of both real estate and land, as well as all subjects of entrepreneurial activity. And this will reveal a real picture of who owns it in the country and where he's from with a government official who's spent his entire life in the public service or his family's millions of assets and property for tens of millions. The last bill we ask to adopt in Parliament is the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Income. The bill provides for a special procedure for financial monitoring, namely the examination of all accounts and accounts of high-ranking persons, namely public individuals. The same applies to public figures in Category I-III: Ministers, President, Prime Minister, Ukrainian National Deputies. Any calculations, both cash and cashless, directly by seniors and their families, will be subject to a special financial monitoring procedure. So, honourable national deputies and Mr. Golovo, we've been doing this package for five months. In general, dozens of world experts were involved in the preparation of this package. This anti-corruption package was being prepared along with GRECO, a group of countries of the Council of Europe to fight corruption. We had American and European experts working together with the government and the President on a package of five anticorruption laws. We realize that simply adopting laws is not enough to fight real corruption. That is why the government has, over the past few months, gone along the path of deregulation and reducing the corruption functions of a number of government authorities. Of the 56 control organs, only 27 remain. From more than 1 thousand 100 different kinds of control functions we've reduced them to 680. Of the 143 licenses issued in accordance with the law, only 84 remain. That's not enough. But the adoption of the anti-corruption package, the establishment of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the increased responsibility of officials, the disclosure of all property information, the screening of financial accounts and the monitoring of the lives of senior officials, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, deregulation, the removal of officials of excessive powers, the reduction of the number of vetting bodies and functions, as we have, in fact, banned checks during the current half, will allow Ukraine to take the path to a real fight against corruption. And this is one of the key elements of the economic recovery plan in Ukraine. They don't give corrupt countries money. And they don't go to corrupt countries either. So this is our joint test, not for words, but for the fight against corruption. Please support a package of five laws to combat corruption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agreed before the vote, we heard the Prime Minister's speech. And now I'm asking you to sit in my place of work. Please, Your Honor, stop walking around the hall, prepare for a very responsible vote. We have an opportunity with you to make a decision right now. Moreover, I am convinced that the entire package of anti-corruption laws will be able to vote today. Colleagues, pay attention! Please support the first reading of the Law on the System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anticorruption (registration No. 5085). Please vote. [[11:13:29]] For 278 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows of honor! Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let us consult with you. We've had speeches, we're not voting on alternative laws accordingly. But let's do it again. There were suggestions for clarifying some of the positions of this law. These are the important clarifications that Pashinski’s national deputy, the other speaking deputies, spoke about. I'm very concerned that if we start to make specifics to the law in a voice right now, it's a very responsible law. So there is an offer, honourable colleagues, that we should accept it as a whole on the first of October 14 — the following Tuesday. In this regard, I am asking to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Colleagues, I ask you to vote that by the age of 14, the law be passed to the Supreme Council, so that we may vote on it as a whole. I mean, the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, after or before the D.A.'s office, we'll meet you in the hall. And now I'm asking you to vote on the shortened procedure by October 14th. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[11:14:59]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 70, Party of Regions – 19, Impact – 40, Economic Development – 16, SMS – 5, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 37. Dear colleagues, we must now make a decision with you on the issues that we have just discussed. Now, dear fellows, I will allow everyone to speak. This is a 4284 project on the principles of state anti-corruption policy in Ukraine. We've been discussing this. And now, in order to restore the main positions before the vote, I ask the Minister of Justice to comment on this law two minutes before the vote. Please sit down and comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the Prime Minister has clearly outlined the basic principles enshrined in the anti-corruption strategy. This is the first time that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has in 20 years not shared a political responsibility for the approval of an anti-corruption strategy with the government and with the President in the event of the adoption of this law. This law we are actually going to implement from the first minute after its adoption, because the following laws that are being passed to implement this anti-corruption strategy are the Law on Prevention of Corruption and the Law on Disclosure of Information on end-users and Public Actors. This law is done with international experts, and it actually sets out the technical plan and tasks for the Ukrainian State on the way to overcoming corruption as a systemic phenomenon, which unfortunately now exists in the state apparatus and in society. So I ask you to take this vote very seriously and support this law on the basis and in general, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u48	I, the only one, would like to address the committee of Victor Vasilovich Chumak, I would like to give you my word, one minute. Can we vote on this law as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u49	I have to say that, at my meeting, the committee has accepted it to be sent to further the subject of the legislative initiative. But my personal impression is that this law is very important, and my personal opinion is that this law is very important. It needs to be adopted because anticorruption policies need to be adopted at the level of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u50	On the foundation or on the whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u51	On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u52	On the basis and in general there is a proposal. Well, dear fellows, there's an offer. We've already discussed this, dear colleagues. We've discussed it. Now, here's the next question, I'll give you a chance to speak. The proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Head of the Professional Committee is to adopt the principles of state anti-corruption policy in Ukraine as a whole (registration number 4284a). [[B in m in s a l in]] Only in the first? Okay. When the MPs insist, I can't deny it, on the basis. Please, Your Honor, accept this project as a basis. Please vote. I mean, first reading. [[11:18:17]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I also propose that we pass these laws together on October 14th. We have practically the last time there are no extraordinary events, there will be a session. Let's support the reduced procedure by October 14th. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:18:48]] For 229 Thank you. Decision taken. By factions, please 74 – "Fatherland" (thank you), the Party of Regions – 11, 39 – "SHOCK", "Economic Development" – 12, "For Peace and Stability" – 3, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 21, "Freedom" – 35, non-fractional – 34. Dear colleagues, next block of questions. In order to look at them, this is a very important issue -- the prevention of corruption, which we have already been informed about, and the amendment to some of the legislation on the definition of end-users of legal persons and public officials. Before you do. And also, I'm sorry, the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of the Proceeds of Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons. Please, Your Honor, support these are draft laws: 5113, 5113-1 (is an alternative law), 4114, 4114-1 and 5067. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Please 5114 and 5114-1, technical error. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of these draft laws in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:20:34]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Your Honor, I remind you, we're going to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, we've made a decision at the beginning of our session. And now I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum of Justice Minister Petrenk Pavel Dmitrovic to present the draft Anti-Corruption Act. After that, he's the author of an alternative law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u53	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, reverend Ukrainian people! The Prime Minister has just presented a package of five laws developed by the government, the President, international experts, donor organizations, and this package of laws needs simultaneous adoption. The adoption of one of these laws does not, in fact, provide for a simultaneous mechanism for implementing those reforms and the expectations for combating the corruption enshrined in these laws. As far as the law I am presenting is concerned, it is the Anti-Corruption Act. This is actually the Anti-Corruption Code, which defines a whole range of anti-corruption mechanisms by which Ukraine can become one level with European countries under the standards for monitoring the lives and activities of government officials, according to the standards for monitoring income declarations and the costs of these public officials. Similarly, Ukraine will meet the requirements of both international organisations and our civil society for the electronic declaration of revenue and the expenditure of all government officials and access, which is the key to our citizens' access to these declarations. Under this law, a special preventive body is created, the National Commission, which is formed after an open competition, and most of which is represented by representatives of the public. This committee will monitor all declarations made by the I-II officials in the category. Similarly, this commission will conduct anti-corruption expertise and maintain an anti-corruption register of all offences committed by government officials. Most importantly, this law actually provides a real tool for our Ukrainian citizens to detect corruption at all levels of government apparatus. This law defines the legal status of exposeers, that is, our ordinary citizens, who have the right to provide information about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u54	Let me finish, mic. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u55	Give information about a corrupt official, about the facts of corruption. And the State commits itself to ensuring the safety and security of this citizen at the same level as ensuring the status of a witness in criminal conduct. I ask you to support this law and it is actually a serious step towards combating the mass domestic and large corruption that exists in the Ukrainian government apparatus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, National MP Rudzkowski will report the draft Law 5113-1, an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I propose my alternate bill. For what reason? It's text and content close to what the government has submitted to the Supreme Council, but there is one principle of difference: the government is proposing to form an organ in which leadership is appointed and liberated by the Cabinet of Ministers and this body will control the fight against corruption is nonsense. I suggest, fellow officials, that the government make personnel proposals for a leader, the Supreme Council appoints, and so, at the suggestion of the Cabinet of Ministers, has released. Then this body will be independent and will fight corruption, not an instrument of the Cabinet of Ministers to fight the foreign exchange. I also address the government in the presence of a finance minister. While we're passing laws, Mr. Finance Minister, overcome corruption in Montenegro, because you're spending money on the area, and the funds are not being used for the purpose. We have a debt on salary in the Kozelec region, in the city of Priluki. Your assignments, unfortunately, are not yet fully implemented. Let us be law - abiding and reflect on today. I also refer to my fellow believers as well as others. We have a unique opportunity today, as well as 14 numbers, to adopt laws that the Supreme Council never adopts, because it is against the interests of the deputies. I mean, to pass the law, at least in the first reading, to remove the parliamentary immunity, to pass the law on the non-retirement of pension reform. That's where half of this Supreme Council went, and now we're taking it too long; making a decision on a different moratorium on wage and pension indexation, because inflation is already 20 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you. Please, head of committee Victor Vasilovich Chumak. The account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, Mr. Rudzkowski, I would like to ask you to read the bills carefully before you go on stage and report them. I would like to point out that there is no reason in this bill that the government there appoints the head of this body, more than that, there is virtually no head of this body, because there is a National Commission made up of five persons who are all with the same responsibilities and equal rights. The chairman of this committee can only hold meetings of the National Commission. In addition, the National Anticorruption Commission, once again, once again, says five people to the National Commission. Moreover, it is not appointed by the government, the government only approves the appointment of these people, who are elected by an independent competition commission, which includes government representatives, representatives of the Supreme Council, representatives of the public. So I just want to say that I have to read. Moreover, on the committee yesterday, we considered this bill carefully. This can indeed be viewed as a bill, which is a code of anti-corruption, prevention, more faithful, corruption. I'd like to say that this National Anti-Corruption Commission doesn't have law enforcement functions and can't break criminal cases, bring criminal responsibility and all that. However, financial controls are very clearly written down, but very clearly defined declaration testing mechanisms, but very clearly defined control mechanisms, according to the lifestyle of high-level owners. The committee at its meeting yesterday reviewed these draft laws and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the draft law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's write it down: two for, two against. I am the only one who addresses the leaders of MP groups and factions. Colleagues, request: Do not allow MPs to leave the session, questions that are too responsible. I'm looking at the monitor, we're running out of deputies in the hall. We need to accept the more important issues on which the future of our country depends. Please, dear fellows, come on. Discipline and responsibility should be our priority today. The word is given to the People's Deputy Marcinkov, the "Freedom" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u61	Please give the floor to the Ukrainian National Deputy of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u62	Please, the national deputy of Osuhovski is speaking from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u63	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! Today, in fact, there is no strategy for preventing corruption in Ukraine. And this bill proposes the creation and formation of a new independent body to combat corruption, which is the National Anti-Corruption Commission. The National Commission will be entrusted with the functions of implementing the anti-corruption policy principles in Ukraine, including the development of anti-corruption strategy projects and the State programme, the preparation and submission of the draft national reports on anti-corruption policy implementation, the organization of research into the situation of corruption, the monitoring and verification of the declarations of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government, and many other important measures aimed at combating corruption in Ukraine. The National Commission will be accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and also to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. The National Commission is a collegiate body composed of five individuals who clearly select and meet certain statutory criteria. The independence of the National Commission from influence and interference is guaranteed. The prescriptions and conclusions of the National Commission are mandatory for the execution of all organs, institutions, and enterprises. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill. Also, please support the hall. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u64	Thank you. People's MP Moshessky, the MP's group "North European Ukraine." He gives the word to the people’s representative Jeremiah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u65	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! Ukrainian people! The issue of corruption is today the main issue raised by the Ukrainian people. Today, when the national deputies of our faction and all the national deputies meet with voters, the issue of police corruption, the issue of corruption in the courts, the issue of corruption in the prosecutor's office, this is question number one, which concerns every district and every citizen of this country. And our faction supports these bills, and we will vote for them. But we think it's necessary to adopt, support the Rudzkowski bill, a national MP who is more balanced, where it is the Supreme Council that approves those persons who will run this Anti-Corruption Bureau. Elections are taking place today, elections are on a democratic basis. We will have a new democratic Supreme Council, and then we will be able to establish honest, decent people who will truly defend the interests of the Ukrainian people. Because when we come to the districts and communicate today, and when we're told that food for children doesn't count for months because there's no swelling, we don't understand what's going on in the country for nine months. When we talk today and talk about the fact that nothing has changed in the courts, and in three minutes there has been no charge against any soldier who has violated it, and we know how thousands of messages with one purpose are being sent to get bribes for the child or the man not to go into the army, we believe that this law must be passed immediately. We will support him, but he must be balanced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u66	Please, National Deputy Žuravsky, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, almost all laws have been passed from the Fule list. There is a requirement for the Council of Europe to adopt the Public Prosecutor's Act. As Secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement, I would like to assure you, Your Honor, this bill is prepared and can be considered by 14 numbers. Why do I say that? Because this bill that we're looking at right now is definitely the Economic Development Group and I will support it. He's on time, he's needed. But the anti-corruption package, unfortunately, will not work until we change the Soviet prosecutor's office. We've got the Soviet D.A.'s system. Alexander Valentine's Day, ask you as a speaker, a thoughtful and balanced man, to pass the Attorney General's Act of 14 numbers. Then we will quietly finish this cadence and say to our constituents: The law on illustrations was passed, the anticorruption package of laws adopted, and the Law on Public Prosecutions was passed. People will bow down to us and say thank you for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputy Shufrich, faction of the Party of the Regions. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, it is vital that laws be adopted today to deal with at least the serious problems called corruption. We hope that these laws will not remain on paper alone. Although, to be honest, we do not believe that they will actually act in their behalf. But he was absolutely right to say that 14 should be the first to make the law on settling the work of the prosecutor and the whole system in Ukraine. But where do we now see the greatest corruption? Do we not today have the right to put an end to corruption on an issue that is fundamental to millions of our people? And that's what made them twice as poor during the six months. These are the people who receive pensions, which unfortunately have become twice as low. We request, request and require that the 14 counts be considered in Bills 5134 and 5135, which are registered in the Supreme Council. One will help our pensioners and that will be our mutual assistance. Index their pensions and make their real lives more affordable, given the price rise, given the decline in the rate of the bracelet almost twice. And the second law. In the end, let us return to our women their glorious retirement age of 55. You promised that in 2012, during the parliamentary elections, and then you forgot that. Let's do what we promised. You promised by going to the polls. And we have a chance to do that. And that will unite the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, Valery Mikhailovich, also prepare for the vote. Colleagues, colleagues! I'm talking to the people's deputies who are at the entrance to the Supreme Council, please come to the hall. I ask the secretariat to announce that all deputies enter the session room. Dear colleagues in voting. Now we're going to vote 5113. In view of the proposal made by the MP Rudzikowski in his law, we will adopt this law as a basis for further elaboration of this issue, which I hope will also take place in 14 numbers. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote. And I'm setting up a project. Colleagues! Guys, let's not play! And I want to tell you that I can't put it on at all, he didn't pass the committee, he was just registered yesterday. You didn't read it! I want to say it again, and I don't need to play! I understand when the deputy has to speak for once in the Supreme Council, but please don't break the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say again, we're voting as a base! We're voting for it! Who doesn't vote, please go outside and tell us what you don't vote for! I want to say again, on the basis of this law, in the first reading. In the first! First reading. Please, Your Honor, support the Law on Prevention of Corruption (5113). Please vote. [[11:38:42]] For 263 Decision taken. The factions. Please. Parenthood – 79, Party of Regions – 19, Impact – 40, 15 – Economic Development, 5 – Peace and Stability, 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35 – non-fractional – 42. Dear colleagues. Next question. I'm asking you, colleagues, just don't break up, please, please. We've got it. Oh, thank you, thank you for the tip. Please support the simplified procedure for preparing this issue by October 14. Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Please vote. [[11:39:30.]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your support, for your effective and effective work today. The next question, your colleagues, the continuation of the topic of combating corruption is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to identify the final beneficiaries of legal persons and public officials -- 5114. Please, Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovitch, Minister of Justice will report. I'd like to remind you that this is a short-circuited procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, this is the second, more faithful bill, which has been drafted on the basis of a series of findings of the Council of Europe Expert Committee, the European Union Directives of 14 March this year on the freezing and confiscation of the proceeds of corruption. The essence of this bill is very simple. It envisions two legislative innovations. The first is the obligation to disclose information about end-users, i.e. owners of legal persons, who in fact make it impossible to hide through fictitious enterprises, through offshore companies of real owners of our business entities. And the second is extremely important money, which provides for the disclosure of access and the publicity of property registers. That's the public requirement. This is a requirement that has repeatedly entered this hall and has not been supported by the national deputies. This is the requirement that is essential at the moment in order to really, Ukraine, first of all, officials and national deputies by their example show that we are not hiding from the Ukrainian people, and, indeed, we are actually fighting corruption because of the public information about both the owners of legal persons and the real owners of property. This practice is common in Europe. The law was developed with European experts, with experts from the Council of Europe, with our public experts from the rehabilitation package and with American experts. Please support this law. The government and the Ministry of Justice confirm that we are technically ready to comply with this law if it is approved in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u72	National MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the adoption of such a law is essential. One reason is that if you look at the amount of taxes paid by one percent of the richest citizens of Ukraine, one percent of the richest citizens of Ukraine pay 2.5 percent of the total taxes to the budget. In the United States, for example, one percent of the richest pay 34 percent of taxes. And this says, first of all, that the tax system is unfair, the big business is not actually paying taxes in Ukraine, it's putting everything off and hiding behind the right people in Cyprus, Switzerland and so on. The adoption of this law will allow for the identification of every Ukrainian citizen who tries to hide behind offshore companies outside Ukraine and to clearly account for the property of every citizen. After that, we will be able to accept effective taxation of the property of Ukrainian citizens, as well as real estate, including the commercial property that is in Ukraine. Europe has shown an example of how it has overcome the crisis. It increased, as in Greece, for example, the income tax on big business, the income tax, up to 35 percent, introduced a progressive tax scale of 45 percent, and introduced a commercial property tax of 0.1 percent to 1 percent. This filled the budget. Ukraine, if it wants to overcome the crisis, must go this way: to fill the budget at the expense of the rich and to finance social programs, increasing wages, pensions and scholarships.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, the head of the Tsumak Viktor Vasilovich profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, this bill is an analogous painting. The bill was considered yesterday, and the bill of government was considered on the committee yesterday. Unfortunately, there was no draft by Mr. Rudzkowski yesterday. The committee voted to support the government bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u76	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Well, please sign in. People's deputy to the Kurensky, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u77	I ask you to pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u78	It seems to me that if we held elections every six months, we would probably have voted on everything that has worked to combat corruption in the last 25 or 23 years. At the same time, however, it is very sad to hear the insults and cynical speeches of the former oligarchs, and perhaps now the oligarchs who have transformed into democratic politicians and now candidates for especially tax hikes for the rich. In addition to adopting a government bill for which I personally and our faction will vote, I would like to point out that yesterday I registered the Ukrainian Nationalization of Gas, Oil Fertility Act. My firm belief is that the oligarchs should return what they have robbed to the Ukrainian people. There has to be a substantial increase in the rent for everyone without excluding the oligarchs, and there has to be a substantial increase in taxes. Enough funding for political parties! Enough to fund your noose candidates in major districts! Invest in the modernization of your own productions, invest in businesses that you have invested in all over Ukraine. This must be the position of the future democratic majority in Parliament. We have to take the anti-Ukrainian oligarchs behind our throats, shake them up, give what belongs to the Ukrainian people back to the Ukrainian people: raise pensions, scholarships, raise social assistance. Return money to the children of the war that the country owed. Dates to live, not to exist, to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. The oligarchs have to finance all Ukrainian reforms from their pocket, not a grandmother for a thousand dollars of retirement or a boy or a woman or a man for 2,000 dollars of wages. This must be our mission. And I will be dead in Parliament for the next five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u79	Please, the National MP of the Marches, Freedom, conveys the word to the National Deputy of the Osuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u80	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! We now have a paradoxical situation. In Ukraine now, those bandits who have stolen the Ukrainian budget for four years have destroyed the Ukrainian economy, they are now still doing business in Ukraine and, more importantly, they are funding terrorism and secession in Ukraine, and the law enforcement authorities are either unwilling to see or simply unable to establish those legal persons. The proposed bill establishes a mechanism for the identification of the natural person of the final beneficiary of legal persons, as well as free access to the State Register of Real Estate Rights. The adoption of the bill will greatly facilitate the fight against the legalization of proceeds obtained in a criminal way. Since all legal persons of private law will be obliged to direct the final beneficiary to the natural person when registering the change in legal property and when the accounts are opened in financial institutions. The bill will have significant positive effects, both legal and socio-economic. We need to seize the opportunity that the Dignity Revolution has given us and adopt this bill, which is very important to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people today. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Yavorowski has a word, the faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u82	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, if this bill had been adopted on time, if it had been adopted a few years ago, and finally all these mysteries, which are now in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian business, in Ukrainian ownership, Ukraine may have been appalled that and to whom it belongs in Ukraine. More specifically, it would be wise to determine who belongs to Ukraine today. And we'd see these few people, a few of these peaks that suddenly came out of existence, and we'd see who owns a big country in the center of Europe. It's very good and, of course, it's necessary to vote in favour of this bill from a moral point of view and necessity and anything. Look at the country we live in. Here is the Park Street, where we travel almost daily, this family monument is not built, which is now. To this day, we do not know who built it. There's some information out there that this guy is with, if I'm not mistaken, Latvia, which he belongs to. Built without any documents, without any permission in the center of Europe, this is where. In the center of Kiev, I'm sorry, this is where this landing ground was supposed to be. All Ukraine today and the wealth of Ukraine are hidden. Because of this bill, of course, it's absolutely necessary, the Fatherland will vote for it. Because there's going to be a lot of evidence today, and I can imagine the stress that society will have when we get to announce the offshore accounts that there is, and the real estate that there is today, and the land that there is. It turns out the son of the Attorney General today has 130 hectares of land. Where did he get them? Why do they belong to him? And it's like that. That's why we're voting for this bill. I think this vote will take some of our sins away from society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Žuravsky, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I think if this law works along with an anti-corruption package, Ukraine will shudder. We're going to see real real estate owners and real people who took over the economy of Ukraine. Experts estimate that this is about 1-2 percent of the population. It will be very interesting to see how many national deputies, ministers, and perhaps even presidents there. Of course, this bill should be adopted, a government bill. He is working really hard to clean up power and to take power of new, uncorrupted personalities. The government law will put an end to the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal, dishonest, and criminal means. And we finally get real access to the State Register of Real Estate Rights. This will certainly go in Ukraine’s favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from non-factional insists on the word, I give one minute, the People's Deputy of the Divine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, if we're talking about fighting corruption today, I have a personal appeal to our Justice Minister, who is reporting on these laws. Mr. Secretary, you have recently appointed the head of the Kharkiv District Council of Justice. The administration of the justice of the former deputy governor of Kharkiv County, who was taken hostage by the Ukrainian Security Service a few weeks ago. I'm asking you very much, if you didn't know that, then look at my open voice right now, at my address to you, please remove Georgievsky from office, conduct a background check, take a video of the Ukrainian Security Service, and don't let the person who was bribed a few weeks ago, filmed, and what kind of roof is now working so that this person doesn't lead the justice service in the area. Because it's a shame, the Harkowians know it and there's no confidence in fighting corruption, unless this fact is destroyed as such, there's no Kharkiv region, I think in Ukraine too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u87	Thank you. The Minister of Justice asks for the floor before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u88	We will definitely carry out a proper test. At present, there is a special inspection, and this officer is not assigned. If your facts prove, of course, it does not belong in the public service.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I turn to the session room, to you, dear colleagues. Can we take on a basis as a whole? Huh? Based on what? Just on the ground, okay. But it is imperative that we prepare it in a reduced procedure by the 14th. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please, please, sit in your workplace while you press the button. Please support the first reading of Bill 5114. Please vote. [[11:55:24]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. 79 - "Paternality" – 74, "Regions" – 13, 39 – "BACK", 13 – "Economic development", "For Peace and Stability" – 3, 27 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35, 38 – non-fractional. Please, Your Honor, support the brief procedure for preparing this issue for second reading, so that we can consider it on October 14. Please vote. [[11:55:58]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. We continue to fight together the bill of corruption. Draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds derived from Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction (Project Registration No. 5067). Please report to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Schlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. I'll remind you, we're working on a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As early as February 16, 2012, I emphasize, in 2012, a group of financial measures to combat money-laundering and terrorist financing, more known as FATF, adopted new standards in the fight against money-laundering and terrorism, and requested all States that support such a fight and who would not want to apply sanctions to themselves, to uphold these standards. Subsequently, the Council of Europe Committee on Countering Money Laundering and Financing Terrorism made a similar request. Sadly, however, for two years, Ukraine has failed to meet its obligations to these important international organizations and adopt these new standards. We have the opportunity today to correct this situation and to do so. The Prime Minister has actually stopped and that is why I will not waste time in the main positions of this legislative document. I want to emphasize that you and I have a way out of this: either we're adopting standards that are already in place today for more than 90 countries in the world that are supporting FATF and MANIVEL standards, or we're not accepting them. I would like to remind you that these standards will be followed by extremely unpleasant procedures in relation to the State. First, the state will receive appropriate claims, then commercial banks, and then our subjects in terms of additional checks, delays in money, delays in the recalculation of funds in international financial systems, and so on. So I would ask you, honourable national deputies, today at the end of the 14th year, after almost three years of adoption of these standards, to vote on this extremely important bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal without discussion in general. No objections? Thank you, dear colleagues, for the inspiration you're working with today. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why on the Basis? Well, colleagues, these are FATF standards, we can't correct them. Colleagues, I'd like to propose anyway. In general, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, the profile committee is asked to accept it as a basis, and there are positions that need to be rectified from international obligations. Please include the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs! Clearly, this bill is necessary and Freedom will vote in favour of this bill. But this bill contains some comments from, in fact, FATF. So the main point to this bill is that it does not meet the requirements of the recommendations of the intergovernmental organization against the laundering of FATF's dirty funds, in respect of the rights, professional rights of lawyers and business accountants. According to the proposed project, those persons are obliged to provide information on their clients’ financial transactions at the request of a financial monitoring body, which is not used to combat terrorism, but to either press or take over business in current Ukrainian realities. Moreover, FATF requirements require that the professional rights of lawyers and accountants be respected and not violated. So we propose that this bill should be voted on as a basis and, in short, prepared by October 14th. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, has the proposal been understood by the profile committee? Therefore, honourable national MPs, we vote in our first reading, i.e. on the basis of Bill 5067 on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of the Laundering of Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing, Spreading Weapons of Mass Destruction. Please. We all vote, dear fellows. Please support me as a base. Please vote. [[12:01:00]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. 80 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 12, 37 – Impact, Economic Development – 13, 2 – Peace and Stability, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Freedom – 32, non-fractional – 40. Dear colleagues! The next question is also going to be the block. Aah!? Thank you. Let's follow the procedure, your honors, so that by the 14th we can prepare this issue for consideration in the second reading in the session room. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote. Yes, dear colleagues, I see that they have not been able to vote. [[12:01:43]] For 213 Yes, dear colleagues, I see that they have not been able to vote. "For" is 213, the decision is not made. Please, colleagues, please, I beg your pardon. Please take your seats, let's stop walking around the hall. Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue so that we can make a decision on October 14 in the second reading. Please vote. [[12:02:22]] For 216 Dear colleagues, 216 decisions are not made. The point is, well, we can't make a debt to the next Supreme Council, a colleague. Well, we have to make our own final decisions on these issues. I'm begging you. Well, we have the opportunity now to support the reduced procedure. [[Noise Nodes]] Now, now. Colleagues, don't go on break. Is that what I'm saying? Because after the break we have. We always lose people's deputies in the buffet. So please, my fellow Members, so that we do not suffer such losses and are able to adopt all the laws, please, colleagues, please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who would like to say a word on this question? People's MP Mirny. I see. Then there's Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u94	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! Dear National Deputies! Well, let's finally remember that the workplace is ours in the session room, that we should work here. We can work on committees when we're allowed to. We can work in the towers when we have the opportunity to get out of this room. The law of accession is now being passed in the Ukrainian Parliament, and the 216, in 219, in 220 is shame! Shame on those who will then come to the districts or go on television and start tearing up calves and telling them how they suffered for Ukraine. You don't have to suffer! We have to do our job! Just come and vote or support, or not support, but be in the workplace! And 232 people registered at the beginning of the session is a disgrace! Let’s work hard and work hard! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u95	Thank you, colleague, for your support. Please, dear fellows! Now let's work together, mobilize together and support the preparation of the short-term procedure of this bill. It is our Supreme Council of the Seventh Call that can report what it has done to fight corruption in real terms. Please support a simplified procedure for dealing with this matter. Please vote. [[12:05:02]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. It's hard to go, dear fellows. So let's not break up! We work all the time. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading. Right away, without a break. Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, 4448a, draft Law amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine regarding the irreparability of punishment for individual crimes against the foundations of national security, public security and corruption. Please. Instead of Andrija Anatoliyovich, it is clear that the people’s deputy, Zharavsky, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues! Special attention should be paid to the accused’s rights in carrying out distance conduct. Because there is a high risk of violating his procedural rights. Part of this is done by introducing a mandatory advocate’s participation in such conduct. In addition to the fact that such conduct begins solely with the approval of an investigating judge, not with the sole investigator or prosecutor. The committee considered the bill at its meeting and asked it to accept it as a basis and as a whole. But with a view to withdrawing the warning made in the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the International Activity of Criminal Sentences, the chapter of the first draft submitted is proposed to complement article 3 of this content. Paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the International Activity of Criminal Sentences, of Exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, please. Taking into account the conclusions and comments of the committee, support the law as a whole. Colleagues, it's not discussed, it's a second reading. Well, the rules, my friends. Guys, this is second reading, we're not discussing this. Fellows, I ask you very much to take into account the observations made by the profile committee rapporteur, to support Project 5067 – prevention and resistance to legalization (washing) of income received. Oh, I'm sorry, 4448a. Yeah. Thank you for your help. 4448a. Draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against the Fundamentals of National Security, Public Security and Corruption. Please, dear fellows. Support the second reading and overall, taking into account the profile committee’s comments. Please vote. [[12:07:56]] For 211 Yes, "For" is 211. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 76, Fatherland. Region Party – 9, 39 – Hit, 11 is Economic Development, 0 is the M.S. "North European Ukraine" is 9, "Freedom" is 35, non-fractional is 32. For reasons, please, National Deputy Schufrich. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u98	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. I want to point out to all of us that this is one of the laws that was passed on January 16th. So follow the right path, comrades! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u99	Please, National Deputy Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u100	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I'm explaining to Mr. Schuffrich myself. When it comes to combating terrorism, financing terrorism, and not fighting their opponents, yes, Parliament will decide that Yanukovic and your comrades have been held accountable, along with wheat and azares, regardless of what they do not now get Russian citizenship and keep their property by financing terrorists, and that our law enforcement authorities have the right to bring them to criminal responsibility. That's what this bill is for. Confiscating the property of all persons who support terrorism, confiscating the property of those who directly finance terrorist activities, is the purpose of the bill. So whoever's protecting Yanukovich and Azarov right now, I think this list should be printed in the press. And we'll see who's not voting for this bill right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u101	There's a very good offer, dear colleagues, very much. Please, Minister of Justice, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u102	Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Ukrainian People! This law allows for the completion of dozens of criminal cases against former high officials, primarily Yanukovič, Arbuzov, the so - called Family. Which is why tens of billions of dollars are currently being arrested, but they can't be budgeted because a court decision is needed. This law is fully in line with European standards. He took an expert course in the Council of Europe. But the main thing is, those who are currently in favour of him really don't vote, they're allowing them not to return the funds that have been stolen, they've been stealing from Ukrainian pensioners who have been sneaking into the Ukrainian business for the past four years. So I ask you to vote in favour of this law. It is considered, it refers exclusively to corruption, terrorism, and national security. In fact, it allows Ukrainian justice to complete criminal cases and pass sentences under the previous Janukovic regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u103	Thank you. My fellow Members, I understand that it is a common position for Parliament to return to this issue. Please, dear fellows. I'm addressing all the national MPs, well, we need to fight for the cleansing of Ukraine. We must, dear fellows, return the resources stolen from Ukraine. It's a principle thing. So, Secretariat, I'd like everyone to come to the hall right away. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Please, colleagues, this is a matter of principle. I agree with the offer. Colleagues, come on, there were no images during the performances. There was no image during the performances, period. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to now vote in favour of returning to this issue and to support its effective vote. And I agree with the proposal, supporting it fervently, that those who do not vote will be printed in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, in the regional edition. Including I'm going to ask the government courier to print these names as well. Please, dear fellows. Colleagues! You're beautiful all the time. I give my word to everyone at the right time. Please, colleagues, vote. Please support, this is important. Back to this question, please, 4448a, please vote. Edward Josephovich, we vote. [[12:12:26]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 77 – "The Fatherland", the Party of the Regions – 13, "The Impact" – 38, 13 – "Economic Development", "For Peace and Stability", of course – 0 (full-time work for Yanukovic). Yes, "North European Ukraine" is 12, "Freedom" is 35, non-factional is 29. Please, Caplin. Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a chance, ladies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u104	I have an offer. You don't have to limit yourself to the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. There's a RADA channel in Parliament, and I think that anyone who hasn't voted for this bill, all these Janukovich rashes, who are now hoping he'll come back. Only a lid can bring him in here covered in graves, I want to tell you. It's not Janukovich's place, and it'll never be. So we should now put a running line on the RADA channel and show it throughout the campaign as long as it lasts, show the names of all those MPs who voted against this bill. And so by all means, without exception, by voting for some anti-corruption bill. This is my official offer. I demand that you, Mr. Head, implement this proposal in the form of your decision, and this is done immediately, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u105	I don't deny it. Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we really voted in favour of this law on January 16. And I think they should vote today. Everything stolen must be returned, whether there is a person in Ukraine or not. But I would also like to mention the millions of Lazarus who have not yet returned to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies of the Moshensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, respectable people! Now, what is happening is about a return by 16 January, when this law was voted on, which has aroused the whole country, has led to today's consequences for the country. Today we are again imposed by this law. What this law needs to do, I'll tell you briefly. Organize triplets, and a man, being on a mission or on vacation, comes and finds out he's been arrested, and he's already on trial. That is why people will not forgive such a law, it is not just democracy, it is anti-democracy. And as for Yanukovic, let's make a separate law and get this gang back, and we're really gonna judge them. And don't tie up and yell, "Janukovich!'--here blushing, blushing like some, quite afraid to look. The main thing is for Yanukovic to really answer. Let's make it a separate law. But you can't turn a country into a 33rd, 37th, zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u109	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u110	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. If we're careful and objective, there's only one thing that's common between January 16th and what's being proposed right now -- similar names. The principles and principles are completely different. But I want to say something different. I looked closely at the board, and those factions, and groups that joined the coalition, didn't add anything but Freedom, unfortunately, except Freedom, 11 votes. People just didn't vote! There'd be 228 votes. So let us not talk about how bad things are, but let us, factions and groups, simply carry out our duties. Otherwise, we cannot be holy in front of the television screen, and we do not, in fact, do our duties. Let us at least put to the right vote those factions that are in the majority! That's it. Vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I hope that in the next Supreme Council there will be most, indeed, democratic, patriotic. I'll remind you, unfortunately, we don't have most of them today. But I am addressing all the national MPs who have a conscience, who have a conscience and a responsibility to Ukraine. This law, despite the claims made here that are not true, has undergone expertise, European expertise, talked about by the minister of justice, and it fully meets European standards. And this is not true of those who, as the distinguished national MP said, went and planted, but of those who fled the country and hid themselves from the Ukrainian judiciary. Only these apply to this law, respected colleagues. So once again, I'm going to put this law to the vote for the last time. Please, Your Honor, go back to his consideration, it's very important both for justice and for the economic base for the return of the stolen money. Please, Your Honor, support the return to Law 4448a. Please, colleagues, vote everyone, please, Your Honor. [[12:18:18]] For 222 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. The factions. 78 – "The Fatherland", 13 – "The Party of Regions", "The Strike" – 38, "The Economic Development" – 14, "The Press" – 0, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 15, "Freedom" – 35, "the Non-Factional" – 29. Please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, this is really a very principled question. Let's be honest, if you reminded the country and fled, you have to take responsibility for it, whatever your name is. What are we afraid of? Any of you here want to get out of here? I voted in favour of all anti-corruption laws, and I tried to vote for that law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's be men. The one who doesn't vote is trying to get out of the country. There is no other motivation to vote. And let me with this yoke that I run away from the country go and run in my districts today. Alexander Valentinović, ask for a vote so that no more jerks from our country will run away, and if she runs away, forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I cannot, after such a speech, not put the law to the vote again. People's deputy Golovko, and we'll try to determine. Secretariat, I'm asking for an announcement: everyone to the session room. Everyone to the session room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u114	Glory to Ukraine! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear MPs, colleagues! Indeed, there is a great dissatisfaction in Ukrainian society today, that the authorities have allowed those criminals, representatives of the Party of Regions, who have shed blood in Ukraine and are now guilty of war in the Ukrainian State, to flee with billions of stolen goods and funds exported from Ukraine. And that's why our task right now, as deputies and representatives of the Ukrainians, is to vote that this law should finally be passed in the Ukrainian Parliament so that we can bring to justice all those bandits who shed blood in Ukraine and take billions out of Ukraine. I understand that many laws have not yet been passed by those who did not initiate Freedom, but look at our faction, 35 stable voices. We are disciplining and calling on our colleagues from other factions to vote and support, to control their deputies so that we can give this appropriate number of votes and approve this law for the Ukrainian state. We urge everyone to be accountable to Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see the national MP Opanaschenko has now come up, perhaps there will be a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. After that speech, I didn't plan to put this law to the vote again, but after that speech I had to put it when even the representatives of the Party of the Regions were backing the vote for this law. Because there is justice to be done in Ukraine. Those who steal should be in prison and those who are stolen should be returned to Ukraine. It's our principled position, your esteemed colleagues. I'm asking you now let's mobilize. There is a possibility to vote, there is a possibility. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues who don't vote, don't be offended, we'll write their names in capital letters, in black box, and all over the country. Please, please, and I ask the national deputy Jeremeyeva to support this decision actively, please, this is an important issue: the return of the stolen from Ukraine. Yes, National Deputy Chumak is seated in his seat. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] And now with a double, we're back and we're voting right now. Please, Your Honor, please. Ruslan, come on, push the button. Please vote for the return. [[12:22:34]] For 234 Decision taken. Applause after the second vote. Applause after the second vote. In general, a proposal (4448a) with comments made by a representative of the profile committee. Please, dear fellows, and then a round of applause. Please vote. [[12:23:05]] For 253 Let's have some applause. [[Applause]] Thank you, thank you, this is a very important decision for our country. [[Applause]] Thank you, dear colleagues, all who voted. The factions, please. Please, heroes. Parenthood – 80, Party of Regions – 17, 40 – Impact, 15 – Economic Development, peace and stability – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 37. I don't take off my commission to print those who didn't vote in favour of this law and through the "Council" channel, as suggested. Dear colleagues, we have several questions that the National Bank and the government have asked to vote on. This is a question of protecting investment, you know how important it is, this is a question for investors of banks, you know how relevant this is, and this is a question for Luhansk region -- the governor's request for pensions, social benefits in the Luhansk region. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Proposal: First reading 4766: Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the taxation of investment activities). Please, Blaujki Mikhailo Vasilovich. Very short. Let's listen to Michael and vote. Let's not break up, guys, let's not break up! Alexander Volodymyrna, let's not break up! A very important vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u116	Dear Head, honourable deputies! Bill No. 4766 is proposed for your consideration – to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve the taxation of investment activities). I want to tell you that the law has passed all the conclusions, and the Cabinet of Ministers, including. The implementation of this bill after its adoption will not require amendments to other laws of Ukraine, nor will it require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine and the local budgets. The adoption of the draft law will increase the interest of private business in making investments in the production of useful mines in Ukraine, as the introduction of the proposed changes will significantly improve the order of taxation under the distribution agreements. This will help to increase the production of Ukraine's beneficial fossils, especially natural gas, and increase the level of economic independence of Ukraine. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There is a desire to vote. On the basis and in general can we vote? On the basis of nothing but? Okay, okay, okay. I wanted to do what was best. Please, on the basis of this, please prepare. Guys, we're getting ready! Regarding investor protection, please. Please, colleagues, support Project 4766: Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for improving investment taxation) – based on the first reading, 4766. Please vote. [[12:26:30]] For 215 Colleagues, why is that? 215 -- no decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, there is a possibility. We're relaxed. I'm asking you to mobilize. Parenthood – 64 (80 now only voted), Party of Regions – 9, Impact – 40, Economic Development – 15, MOU – 1, 21 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues! I'm asking, come on, just. We are not responsible for matters of equal importance. You know how hard it is for investors to enter Ukraine right now, a country that is fighting. And to protect investors, it is our duty, fellow believers. Make it an attractive job in Ukraine. It's very important, dear colleagues. We stand for the recovery of the economy, for the development of the economy. Please, Your Honor, let's go back and vote now. Andri Volodymyrovich, please help the faction to vote! Help me to vote. Please, dear fellows. Please return to this question. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[12:27:53]] For 219 The decision is not taken. All right, fellas, come on. National MP Mirny, please. I'd like the secretary to invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u118	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Look, we just voted on a bill that won 256 votes. And really, you say, Alexander Valentine's Day, the "Fatherland" faction gives 80 votes, right here is 64. We don't have the primary, secondary, or necessary bills. We're taking everything into the hall now, it's going to be on the weight of gold. And it seems that none of those MPs who don't vote now are going to live in this country. And no one thought that maybe someday he'd stop being a deputy and maybe he'd have his own business, and maybe his parents would have their own business, and maybe you'd still have to involve investors and raise standards. And I want to understand why all those who shout the loudest don't normally vote? No offense. But where is Mr. Lazko? So why doesn't he have him in the hall on this important issue? It is the person who is most protective, more loyal, who cries out for the protection of the little ones and the ones who follow. We have to raise the small and the middle class!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u119	Thank you. Please provide the Minister of Finance with information on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! It's about a simple enough thing. We have two product distribution agreements with important companies for solar gas production, and you know that. If we do not now vote and acknowledge the changes in legislation with which we have already accepted our obligations, we simply refuse to do so. I think after that, it's unlikely that anyone will come here to help us with gas production and Ukraine will once again emphasize how much it is an optional partner in any investment arrangement. Extensive request: Please support this bill. And I hope that within a year we will talk about Ukraine becoming more independent in gas supply cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to what the Minister of Finance has said about not only the protection of investments, but also Ukraine's energy security. Because under the energy blockade of Russia, the solar gas for us is one of the most promising directions for development. So, dear colleagues, I ask you very much: let's not talk now, but vote now. Please, Your Honor, I beg you to vote! Colleagues please support, and after the vote, I will give you my word, absolutely. Please, dear fellows! Please, colleagues. This vote also reveals the Russian Federation's agency in our ranks, which is blocking the development of alternative energy and gas production in Ukraine. Please, dear fellows. Please, colleagues, after the vote, ladies. Please support, colleagues, a return to this question. We all vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich, we're all voting for our jobs. Please, colleagues, strategic question, answerable question. Please vote for the return. [[12:31:48]] For 225 The decision is not taken. David Vajayevich, everyone was waiting for you! Please take your seat. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, colleagues! And I'm asking you, Mr. Geller, to sit in my place of work. Colleagues! One vote was not enough. David Vazievich, please, is discipline and responsibility. And, colleagues, I ask you to immediately adjust yourself to two votes, two votes. We've included, we're out, and we're voting in general. Okay? Ladies and gentlemen, please return. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Please return to this question. Please, Your Honor, and we are now voting on the law. We're voting for the return, please. [[12:33:03]] For 231 Decision taken. Exhale, all of it. All in all, please. [[12:33:23]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. By factions, please, by factions. Mosheński, national MP, please. I'll give you a chance. Yeah. Parenthood – 72, Party of Regions – 15, Impact – 40, 14 – Economic Development, Peace and Stability – 2.25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35.31 – Non-fractional. Please, Your Honor, ask for one minute of the People's Deputy Moshensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u122	I thank all the deputies for voting in favour of this bill. He really needs it. Because we really need investment like the blood of an organism. But I want to convey what is happening in the Luhansk region. Programmes are not funded. The Ministry of Finance is pursuing a policy of destroying its people. And in general, this Cabinet of Ministers, this feeling, it's trying to destroy the people, and then there's no need for finance. I would have retired long ago if I were the Minister of Finance. Because he's useless. In fact, he's probably just an enemy of his people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u123	Colleagues, let's not get emotional. We have just today two laws regarding the Luhansk region that we are voting on that raise the issue of financing those regions that today can get funding. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have colleagues, please. Come on, we can't make it. I see that people are falling apart. Please close the door so no one leaves. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making, respectable colleagues, two laws. Two laws. More correctly, I ask that we also make our decision to take it into the daytime order. What are you talking about, fellow officers of honor? It is about guaranteeing the contributions of individuals. Two laws. Each of these changes only one word, except for electronic regular promissory notes. That the National Bank is able to fund deposit guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, please include these questions in the agenda. And draft regulations on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Luhansk region. What the Moshensky People's Deputy said about funding, the possibility of financing the Luhansk Region. Please, Your Honor, registration numbers 5055, 5049, 5115, 5116. Please, Your Honor, this is the finale of today's session. We have to vote. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:36:06]] For 224 Dear colleagues, well, I apologize. Colleagues, please. The factions, please. 66 – "The Fatherland", 13 – regions, 39 – "The Impact", "Economic Development" – 14, 1 – USM, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 24, 35 – "Freedom" – non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, please, please, colleagues, ask the MPs all over again, yes, to vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Eugene Geller, please, you're from Luhansk, please take your seat. Please, dear colleagues, the inclusion in the agenda and effectively, let's take a quick look, put a exclamation mark in today's work. Please include colleagues in the agenda 5055, 5049, 5115, 5116. Please vote. [[12:37:19]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, Dubil Valeriy Aleksandrovitch will brief us very briefly under the Law on Amendments to Article 23-1 of the State Budget Act on Financial Bills of the Fund for Guarantee of Investors, Investments of Persons. Please. Investing in individuals. You know how many banks have stopped, you have to pay people back. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, in particular, the project proposes to amend article 23-1 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 by deleting the word "financial" in paragraph 1 of the article. This gives the Cabinet of Ministers the right to issue internal government loan bonds in exchange for the bill of the fund to provide financial support to the fund. The adoption of the bill will protect the rights of investors, restore confidence in the banking system of citizens, and ensure the sound functioning of the banking sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, may we vote? Please give Teryohin a word. I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u126	Is it on? Dear colleagues, let us look very carefully at the contents of these two bills. Today, see how the Deposit Guarantee Fund is formed. Banks account for the corresponding share of their income to that fund and plus the National Bank gives a share. Now it's proposed, the Guarantee Fund, once again, it's a private fund formed by banks. I remind you that a year ago, the Supreme Council made the wrong decision to lower the bank account. In general, take away the minimum amount that is to be paid to citizens. Now this is the fund itself. So what's in this bill? Not only will the National Bank help the fund now, but taxpayers will help the fund, loans will be given in the same way as they are given to the Pension Fund. And you know, at the end of history, all the de facto loans of the Pension Fund are being written off. So you know what? Let's, if we have to protect our investors, let's take a decision in the Banking and Banking Act or the Pro Deposit Guarantee Fund to increase the deductions from commercial banks to this fund. And let them finance investors for their income, not at the expense of a teacher or at the expense of a pensioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u127	Please, Rudzkowski, the National MP, then the Minister of Finance will explain his position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I support the national MP Teryochin. We don't need fast solutions that will then put the entire financial system in a difficult crisis. We've already made up our minds. Once the head of the National Bank, who is now returning to the Supreme Council, has decided to issue currency loans to people. Today, hundreds of thousands have been thrown out of their homes. And now they're pushing a couple hundred more to do that by not converting currency loans into national currency on the day of the loan. I insist that we take such decisions very seriously. The proposal to simulate promissory notes, we've already lived in promissory notes. People need money, not bills, in order to recover savings, and they need to increase bank counting, they need to be charged at the expense of bank owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I see from the speeches that the MPs did not understand the content of this law. Please, the head of the Geller Eugene profile committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u130	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that at least before voting on the Law at number 5055, Law 5049 must be voted on. Because as long as we don't have the bill of circulation in Ukraine, we can't vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u131	I see. Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! These two laws, which we have not yet considered before, really need to be considered together. What are we talking about? You know the difficult situation in the banking sector, which makes it necessary to pay off bank liabilities at the expense of deposits. But since there is no funds, it is a temporary operation. The point is that the government issues VAT in exchange for the fund’s commitment to return funds from the banking sector to Ukraine’s budget in the future. And what Sergey Terjochin says about the increase in counting is a particular topic, one that can be considered separately. And in this case, I would like to propose the adoption of this law, because it's about insurance, guarantees that the funds will be reimbursed by the Fund's Deposit Guarantee Fund. I ask you to support this bill, and the next to vote also as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u133	Please, Minister of Finance, Alexander Schlapak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u134	Dear National Deputies! Two things I'd like to point out. First. With regard to the formation of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The Supreme Council has long been defined – there is no doubt that the money of commercial banks goes first. If they are not enough to fulfil the State’s social obligations, the National Bank will pay 200,000 dollars, at least. The National Bank has fulfilled all its obligations to the Fund today, and there is no resources in the Fund. And only on the third, last, hand comes the government that does this by exchanging its securities, the bonds of the internal government loan on the bill of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. All we're doing with you right now is we're throwing out the words "financial bill," because the financial bill is a separate tool. And in order to bring it in, we can do that, we're going to need extra expenses, deposits, expenses and time. And the second is what I want to say. There is no investment guarantee for today. If we don't adopt the law today, if we don't sign it by its President, we're going to deprive people of the opportunity to get at least 200,000 dollars in the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The need for the fund by the end of the year is about 16 billion. Five have been issued by the National Bank, 10.1, you have already made decisions, national deputies, in the State Budget Act 2014, if it is necessary to send these funds to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. There is such an urgent need. Please vote now and support those who count on the state to meet its obligations and pay 200,000 dollars to those people whose deposits are unfortunately burned in banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, you know how painful this question is for many of our citizens who have put money in banks and can't get a penny back. And that's why it's not from a good life that this law is being passed, that the government in these difficult circumstances, yes, will actually be lending the Guarantee Fund to pay people off. When we take care of people, we have to take this step, because the government has to help the National Bank, which actually can't get this problem out today. And the government is taking the form of aid to the National Bank. Please, Your Honor, support this question: 5055. And then, clearly, it's a package, two laws that regulate the same issue, the issue of providing the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons. Requests, respectable colleagues, 5055 and then 5049. Because I support Geller Eugene's statement that these laws can only work together. Please, Your Honor, support the adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Law 5055. Please, Your Honor, vote everyone. Please. [[12:46:36]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's see who doesn't vote, then with your voters who can't get a penny in the bank, you'll communicate and explain what you mean. The factions, please. 65 – Fatherland, Regions – 5, Impact – 40, Economic Development – 14, SMS – 1, 26 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35, non-fractional – 29. The chapel, turn on the microphone, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u136	I would like the heads of factions who did not provide the necessary level of presence and voting for this bill to know that there are only about 15 million investors in Ukraine, I would stress that 15 million citizens have just watched the "Council" television channel, will watch this report and give an assessment of the level of your protection of their interests. This bill is certainly to be supported, otherwise everyone who has not voted and who is not willing to defend the interests of those who have invested not in banks but in the national economy who have filled the financial blood vessels of the economy with resources will curse you for not giving Ukraine a chance to lift their economy from their knees today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u137	Please, Zarubinsky National Deputy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u138	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, honestly, unlike some of the previous bills, which I think will be of a declarative nature that we voted for, but when they are implemented and implemented, you will see how much difficulty there will be. This bill is to be voted on by all in attendance, because the banking system is falling apart, and you know it. And if even 200,000 people don't get paid, all their ten neighbors, relatives, godparents and so on will never be taken to the bank again. So this is just going to end with the collapse of the Ukrainian financial and banking system. So we just have to vote for this bill because it's the one that will help preserve our banking system. Once again, the level of mistrust is increasing in a progressive proportion, if the people of this 200,000 are unable to produce the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, please let's try this again. Please, colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, friends, please take your seats. It's an important question. We have a few votes left and you can rest in the districts. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to your consideration of question 5055. Please vote. [[12:49:56]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 69 – "The Fatherland", 6 – "The Party of Regions", "The Strike" – 40, 14 – "Economic Development", "For Peace and Stability" – 2, 26 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", and non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, I have an offer: let us now give Moskal Gennady Gennadyovich the opportunity to speak. He'll present two decrees right away, two decrees that apply exactly to the social protection of citizens in the area of anti-terrorist operations. I think that everyone, regardless of their political affiliation, is willing to support it. And then we'll go back and we'll try to vote 5055 and 5049 again. Since each of these laws does not work in itself, they only work in two. Please, Gennady Hennadiovich, very briefly. And imagine the determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u140	Very short. Dear colleagues, the scalp went through Luhansk without asking the people in which area or city they lived. And it turned out that the sister stayed in one village, the brother in the occupied LNR, and another brother stayed in a village under the control of the Ukrainian authorities. And they can't get pensions, wages, and they can't get them. Because the treasury is closed. This is about what are the population points that go along the line of the Anti-Terrorism Operation, where people stayed between the earth and the sky. And no one will help them except you. Since April, teachers, doctors, health care, have not been able to work completely. I was in the last week of the Trichisbank, where the sick had already forgotten to eat, to eat tuberculosis, even though they had to eat at least six times a day, they didn’t even eat once a day. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a fight for a piece of bread, this is a struggle for survival, there is absolutely no politics here. That's what happened. We have prepared very tolerantly for land delimitation, and we're saying that as long as the land moves into subordination of the area where the district council works, where the treasury works. That's what happened in the area. The only area in Ukraine where the district council doesn't work. These questions could be removed, but they could be collected objectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, do you understand the problem? The problem is very simple: part of the area is freed and the district center remains occupied by terrorists. And in order to move the service of this area to another treasury, you see, the proposal is to change its boundaries temporarily. That's what this is about. Do you understand the offer? Got it. These are two decisions that apply to the same question. 5115 is a draft decree on the change of the administrative and territorial structure of the Lugansk region and the establishment of the borders of the New Year's and Slavyan region of Lugansk. Please, Your Honor, support this motion of determination as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:53:47]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Next: draft Decision on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Lugansk region, modification and establishment of the borders of the Preval and Pásnian regions of the Lugansk region. Same subject. Please, Your Honor, 5116 as a basis and as a whole. [[12:54:20]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the banking subject, to the banking topic, your colleagues: 5055, 5049. The return of contributions to our citizens, honourable colleagues, is discussed in these laws: the return of deposits to individuals. Please, colleagues, please don't break up, please! Let's try to get back to Law 5055, then 5049. And we're putting the risk under today's work. Ladies and gentlemen, please! Colleagues, please, please! Please take your seats. Please support the return. [[12:55:22]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Please, colleagues, I don't know. I'm asking you to stay put, let's consult. Catherinechuk, national deputy. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u142	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this is a direct duty of the state to perform functions if it allows banks to do what they do, i.e. to work with the population, with their finances. And so today the government is asking for additional tools at this difficult time so that they, along with the National Bank, with the Pension Fund, can balance what people need today. The talk that it's going to be promissory instead of money is not true. The point is to ease the situation of those investors who are unable to obtain money today. So I call for this bill to be voted on. If the practice of applying these promissory notes is negative, we will always be able to change it, but we need to help the government today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u143	Pavlov, national MP, please. Colleagues, don't break up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u144	National MP Pavlov, 31st Majority District. Ladies and gentlemen! You know, in the books on the financials of billing, there's this notion of a financial bill. This is a bill that is backed up by financial resources. Would it not work out that by removing the word "financial," you would simply give people the papers that they would pass on from generation to generation and without money? There's a suspicion that that's exactly how it's gonna be. We therefore believe that, before voting on such a bill, it must be understood that each bill is supported by financial resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u145	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Indeed, a critical situation in the country. A few million citizens can't get their deposits in banks right now, we have to find a solution. Alexander Valentine's Day, if the Supreme Council doesn't vote today, I'm asking you to give the government an order so that we can make all the decisions we need so that people can start getting their money. They can't get ready for the winter, buy clothes, and eventually we have to get our trust back in the banking system. One more. I want to speak to the Minister of Finance. In 2005, when there was a crisis, we nationalized a large part of the banks that took loans to the National Bank. Why don't we? You've given 130 billion refinancing, half of it's stolen, there's no guilt, no responsibility, and you don't nationalize banks. Return your government property and lend it to me for a normal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u147	Teryohin, national MP, please. Colleagues don't break up, I beg of you. I'm looking at the monitor, and I see that the Supreme Council is not ready to work. Please don't let anyone go.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Well, then let's make a compromise. This approach alone is not right. But I'm reminding you once again that we need to increase the deduction from bankers' income to the fund, not to squander the state budget. This makes it better for the Pension Fund to fund than for the guarantee fund to be private. But in view of the fact that this issue needs to be resolved this year, I suggest you, Minister, listen! – I propose to give discretion for this year, by the end of the 14th year, to amend the State Budget Act and the same to January 1st in the transitional provisions of the basic Guarantee Fund Act, with protocol, Alexander Valentinovich, by assigning the government to the 14th number to draft a bill to increase bank accounts to the Fund to guarantee the investments of individuals and then we get out of position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u149	I got the offer. Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Dear Head! Teryohin is absolutely right. Only this has no bearing on the law that we are talking about. It has to do with the sources of debt, as set out in the promissory notes before the government of Ukraine. I'd like to reveal a little bit of how this scheme is going to work. No promissory notes as a way of calculating a tabile are involved. This is about the government’s commitment to a guarantee fund. Where will the money come from? The government issues the VAT of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, in exchange for this guarantee fund issuing a bill on the obligation to pay the corresponding amount of the budget, the debit of the VAT is done through the purchase by the National Bank of Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine will be charged exclusively in cash form. So I ask my colleagues once again to support this decision, as well as the draft decision that Terhochin is proposing. But let him prepare it, we'll look at it, and we can take 14 numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, come on. I beg of you, People's Deputy Opanaschenko. Dear colleagues, the vote, please let's vote now. No, I promised to read your statement. Wait, please. Please, Minister of Finance, and we'll make decisions, Your Honor. I am no longer able to draw more votes from Parliament. If you'll excuse me, please report to the towers. Everyone to the hall. Last vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! As a finance minister, I want to spend 10 billion dollars of budget money on this goal. That's true. I could also say that this is a banking sector problem, let the banking sector do what it wants. I agree with Mr. Teryohin, I think we should look for some other forms of deposit guarantee fund filling for the future. But I'll get you the numbers and please think about them. Up to 200,000 dollars have 98 percent of Ukrainians. We're talking about the very poor audience who can't make their investments today. To date, 13 banks are undergoing liquidation. And unfortunately, that's not the end of it. By the end of the year, there will be more. But even for these 13 banks to pay off 200,000 dollars, it takes a sum of 10 billion dollars. There's nothing on the fund. If the National Bank issues a loan that it can legally issue today, there will be 5 billion dollars. So today's vote, actually by voting, I agree with Teryochini, ad hoc, because this rule is only in the 2014 budget, if we don't take it next year, it's not going to be from the government and from the state supporting the Deposit Guarantee Fund, we can solve the problem and for another poorest of our audience to help get at least something from our commercial banks. Not even from the banks, but from the Guarantee Fund. Now, millions of people, the poorest, who can get partial compensation for the contributions made. Support them. This is our shared responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u153	Only with money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u154	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik explained everything completely. Indeed, the government’s decisions that have been adopted are ready. We exchange: a bill against the bond of an internal government loan. The domestic government loan bonds that will belong to the fund will be transferred to the National Bank. The National Bank buys them out and gives them living money. Costs will enter the Deposit Guarantee Fund two days after the President's signature of this law. Only with money, only with money! We don't have any paper. People only get their money with money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, in order for people to get money, the government needs a tool to help the National Bank and the Guarantee Fund. That's what we're talking about! You give the government a tool to help the National Bank and the Guarantee Fund. People will receive, colleagues, exclusively with money. That's what this is about. But to do this, we need to start the mechanism that the finance minister, Victor Pinzenik and other national deputies, spoke of. Colleagues, before voting, the national MP Opanaschenko asked him to press the button, to announce his resignation from the MP's "For Peace and Stability" group. Colleagues, please. Mrs. Hanna, except for the money, the minister of finance told you about it. Absolutely. But if you don't vote, people won't get a penny, that's the problem. Don't nod your head, or people won't get a penny if you don't vote. Please be careful who doesn't vote! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Please support the return to Project 5055. Please, colleagues, please support, protect our citizens, please. [[13:05:19]] For 226 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please vote, friends! Otherwise, we won't make a decision right now. Please. Then the factions. As long as the factions do, the people will break up. Please, Your Honor, support the bill 5055 as a whole. Please, colleagues, every voice on the weight of gold! Please vote. [[13:05:58]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Stop! Stop! Let's not break up! Final. And this law doesn't work without Law 5049. A similar law that actually raises questions about the circulation of these promissory notes. Please. I'm asking you for a basis as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] In 2014, of course. For 2014. Please. Please, colleagues. Please. Please, let's not break up! Last vote, let's put a dot in our fight. Please vote on the basis and in general, 5049. [[13:06:50]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the financial bills of the Guarantee Fund. So we've accepted permission, and now the circulation of promissory notes also has to run this mechanism, these are related laws. Please give Teriochin a word. Let's not break up, guys! Let's not break up! One card, someone's guilty, please put it in. Well, now it's okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, well, if we've voted on the 2014 budget, I propose once again in the Transitions to the Basic Deposit Guarantee Fund Act, too, not in the Transition, but in the End of the Position, to extend this rule only until the end of this year. Again, I would like to ask the government for a protocol mandate of 14 to submit a bill to increase bank accounts to the Deposit Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u157	Minfin doesn't mind, Alexander Vitaliovich? He doesn't mind. Please, dear fellows! Please! Please! The last vote and you can go quietly even to the buffet. Please! Please, colleagues! They've mobilized. We're good. Vote! Please return to the vote in favour of this Law 5049, two votes. 5049. Please come back. Rudzkowski breaks the vote, honorary colleagues, respected colleagues. I'm reporting to the investors. [[13:08:27]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there's no point in voting 55 when 5049 is not accepted. Geller, head of the committee, he told you. The factions, please. "For" – 68 – "Paternity", Regions – 7, "STAMP" – 40, 13 – "Economic development", 1 – "MS" – "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 27, "Freedom" – 35, "non-factional" – 30. Please, the MP Rudzkowski will explain why he didn't vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u158	I voted in favour of this law, and I believe that today, with the proposals that the Minister of Finance has agreed, we should vote in favour of it today. We must guarantee that any person who has invested money in a bank can receive 200,000 dollars in the near future for his family budget. I'm turning from left-wing power to all national deputies to vote today. And each family of millions who cannot return their deposits will provide the necessary funds. Thank you. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u159	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u160	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, the next thing I know, if there were 200 people, there'd be 200 votes in favour. Unfortunately, so far 35. But what you would like to say is relative to this law. Most likely, there are people who do not fully understand the prescribed mechanism for the issuance and circulation of these bills, which are in the law. So I think the minister of finance now has a very clear statement that, for example, in a day, in two, in five or fifteen, this mechanism will be written down. Because the law is passed, there is no mechanism. And then it doesn't work the first or the second law. Now let's put the accent out clearly, and we'll find these miserable six votes. But the next time I call on faction leaders to secure a hundred percent vote. To mobilize people who quietly dissolve in buffets and underground passages. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I want to point out that these mechanisms have been working for a long time. I'll just remind you, you hear the government's decree to capitalize on Naftogazu every month. It's a very similar scheme because of the GDP. But you and I are discussing a very delicate subject and a lot of what we're here for. I heard it better not be on the air. And when we touch on the subject, we have no right to come down without making a decision -- it's very important for the banking system. So I'm asking my colleagues very much, this law of all sorts corresponds to the rules of the law that we've already voted on and without which it won't work. I'm asking my colleagues to uphold this law and signal peace for our investors in the Ukrainian banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-10-07-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand, I think it's necessary to adopt these laws. Guys, come on, let's get this show on the table. I can see your hands. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Let's take two votes and we can take the risk. I want to thank all the deputies who passed the anti-corruption package. Let me remind you, we passed all the laws of the anti-corruption package. Hopefully, on the 14th, we'll take a risk on this issue definitively. And now we need to adopt laws that protect the economic interests of our citizens. My friends, a lot of citizens have suffered because the banking system cannot withstand the economic regime that we have in connection with Ukraine being forced to wage war by protecting its borders, its territorial integrity. Please, Your Honor, two votes: come back and we're voting in general. Please, colleagues! Sergei Vladislavovich, Andry Volodymyrovich, please, let's take your seats, then we'll talk. Let's vote now. Colleagues, we vote! Please support the return to the draft Law 5049. Please, let's vote faster, let's go, dear friends, well, that's clear. Please, we're voting for a return. Please. [[13:13:40]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. What are we doing, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, two choices: the last time is the demand, and then the 14th, we're carrying 14 numbers. Come on, last try, last try, last try! Colleagues, I'm looking at the monitor when everyone in the room votes, everyone votes, there's a chance of acceptance. My colleagues, I'm pressured not because I'm interested in pressing this question, but because really, well, a lot of people, well, your voters need this decision, they really need it. Protect them, please! Here's everyone who's in the room when they push the button, we make decisions. Please, colleagues, final attempt, final attempt, please support the return to this question. I understand, I vote, I vote. [[13:14:41]] For 223 Friends, "yes" to 223, no decision taken. I can't make it anymore. The factions, please. 68 – Fatherland, Region 7, Impact 40, Economic Development 13, SMS – 1, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, non-fractional 32. Dear colleagues, we will continue, we cannot leave this question, we will continue its discussion and adoption of 14 numbers. We have no other way. And now we're closing the session. Good-bye.
