ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. While the MPs are preparing for work, I am traditionally informed that today we have the birthday of the national deputies, Barwinenka Vitalia Dmitrovitch, Kanovce Oleg Leonidovich, Novinski Vadim Vladislavovich, Razwadovski Viktor Josephovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to turn on the Council system and register with the National Deputies. [[10:07:43]] There were 321 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that last night, the anti-terrorist operations from the air destroyed the terrorist blockades in the Luhansk region, as well as the terrorist attack squads. And so there's a blocked attempt to destroy our border guards, whose troops were right in the Luhansk district. This morning, enough terrorists were destroyed who were in the camp, which they secretly made in the prom zone under the city of Severodonetsk. And now we're running a set of active operations under the anti-terrorist operation after the liberation of northern Donetsk. Anti-terrorist actions are quite successful. And I hope that during the day we will receive reports of concrete results. Let's support our famous heroes who protect Ukraine and clean up our own Donetsk and Lugansk region from diversions, terrorists and other criminals. Dear colleagues, traditionally, we have the opportunity to hear leaders and representatives of our MP factions and groups on Tuesday. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Before our colleagues prepare for the performances, I want to make an announcement. In accordance with the application and part of the third article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ganchukov Aleksandr Kostinović as part of the Communist Party’s parliamentary faction. According to the statement and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the departure of the national deputies of Ukraine of the Balitsky Eugena Vitaliyovich, Bobków Aleksandra Mihajlovich, Vasilev Aleksandra Andriyovich, Vojka Volodymira Mikolaiovich, Horochova Sergia Alexandrovich, Grusevsky Vitalija Anatoliyovich, Denisenko Anatolia Petrovich, Dzoz Vitalina Olexijivny, Dudka Aleksandra Ivanovich, Kozuba Andryovich, Lukyanova Vladislava Valentinovič, Lutikova Valentina Ivanovna, Murajevo Evlodimirovich. Oliynik Volodymira Mikolaiovich, Povali Taisi Mikolaiyevna, Ponomarová Aleksandra Sergiyovich, Samoylenka Yuri Petrovich, Struka Vladimir Alexiyovich, Tihonova Viktor Mikolaiovich, Chuba Volodymira Evgenovich, a member of the Party of the Regions. (Until we're done.) Dear colleagues, I invite you to the Secretariat for information on the number of factions of all who are registered in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, from the Fatherland faction, the word is given to Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u2	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I think the first and the key question is actually the anti-terrorism operation went into a completely different phase. And this is due to the fact that the president of the Russian Federation, Putin, and his immediate surroundings, actually gave up a command for direct incursion into Ukraine. And what's happening in our eastern borders, when, in fact, the Russian Federation's border crossings are free of arms trucks, with terrorists, shows one thing, this has already become the official policy of the Russian Federation and its superior leadership to directly stimulate the invasion of the sovereign state of Ukraine by terrorist groups that are directly funded, supported, and now, of course, are being organized by the higher leadership of the Russian Federation. But that would be just a half-bath. The second part of the tragedy that is currently taking place in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas is the support that is provided directly or indirectly through direct funding through organizational action by representatives of the Communist Party and the faction of the Party of the Regions to those terrorists who are directly engaged in an undeclared war against the Ukrainian people. When it becomes clear that in the city of the Slovenian Communists directly with terrorists they organize provocations, organize direct actual support for these terrorist groups and call directly the names of the leaders of the Communist Party of Local Centres, this is a matter that should be immediately addressed by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the internal affairs authorities and the Ukrainian Security Service in order to give a direct assessment to those parties who are here in the session hall and who are directly subversive against the State of Ukraine. The second equally important situation is a situation that is now in fact being directly supported by terrorist groups by a number of financial and industrial groups in Ukraine. Today, it is clear that in the whole range of regions in the Donetsk and Lugansk region, no terrorist group could have behaved in a presumptuous manner if there were no direct funding not only from the Yanukovich family and its immediate surroundings but without direct funding from the owners of the enterprises located in these areas. The issue is a question of the peaceful population, which is currently in the midst of a virtually undeclared war. And our task is to urgently resolve the issue of the possibility of granting status to those living in the Donetsk and Lugansk region in areas where direct hostilities are taking place, in fact temporary settlers, according to the Law that we adopted and approved "On the Interim occupied Crimea." This will enable the local authorities of Zaporzik, Kharkiv, Herson, Mikolai, Lviv, Ivano-Frankiv and other areas that today accept these immigrants to provide the same assistance, to accept them, to organize the actual relocation of children, families with children, in fact, in the directions that allow under the law. So our faction is proposing that this bill be placed in the order of the day and legalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u3	The word is from the "Freedom" faction of Oleg Pullibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u4	Glory to Ukraine! Dear Society, today the Ukrainian Parliament must demonstrate that we are, indeed, the highest legislative body of our nation. We are fully aware of all the events that are taking place in Ukraine, and we must adopt the overwhelming decisions that Ukrainian society needs today, first and foremost, to preserve the territorial integrity of our state and Ukrainian sovereignty. Clearly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should decide the most important issues regarding the areas of security in our country. That undeclared war, which is being waged today by the new methods of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, requires swift, decisive and very specific action from us. From the very beginning, when the anti-terrorist operation began, we proposed to strengthen the Ukrainian-Russian border as firmly as possible. Unfortunately, today this is one of the biggest problems today -- the county border with the Russian Federation. That's why we think that the introduction of the visa regime with Russia, by the way, is already the decision of the National Security and Defence Council, today, although it's too late, but in time, and it needs to be decided as soon as possible. That is why we believe that we should adopt the relevant Order in Parliament proposed by the Freedom faction, number 4962, which is based on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation in 1997 on visa-free travel of citizens of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. Furthermore, there is no need to fear the adoption of an important and decisive decision regarding the establishment of a military state in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas in order to carry out a full-scale military operation to eliminate the terrorists who today are preventing the development of the Ukrainian state from carrying out terrorist activities against the inhabitants of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. In addition, Freedom has prepared a draft regulation that we ask for to be included in the agenda, which is 4914, which concerns the participation of Ukrainian citizens in the protection of public order and the state border. The point is that we need to give appropriate legal status to those of our patriot heroes who are now fighting on the eastern border of Ukraine. And this regulation regulates the use of cold and firearms used by voluntary public formations from the protection of public order and the state border of Ukraine. The Society, the Freedom faction, will not tire of reminding us that if there is no illustration in Ukraine, we will not be able to implement all the plans that relate to the reform of the Ukrainian state and the strengthening of the country's defence. That is why we insist that we vote again and again in favour of putting the daily bill 4570 into order. Part of the illustration is the ban on Communist ideology in Ukraine and our 3530 bill. We ask that the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine pay attention to our parliamentary appeal regarding the ban on the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions that sing to the separatists. Also, society would like to ask all faction leaders to submit their nominations to the Interim Investigation Commission for falsification in the election of the Kiev City Council. We can't let after the Maidan, after the Dignity Revolution continue to be forged, we use administrative resources and pressure, we need fair and transparent elections. Parliament must work effectively, and Parliament must work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u5	The word is given to Anatoly Kinachu, Economic Development, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine has also given unprecedented challenges, and primarily because of the courage and solidarity of the Ukrainian people, it has taken a very important stage in the election of the President of Ukraine. And it is fundamental that the first steps taken by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the executive power were primarily focused on the most important issues of creating conditions of peace, security throughout Ukraine, primarily the East, the South-East. And clearly, these efforts should be aimed at creating conditions for the joint consolidation of the actions of the President of Ukraine, the legislative and executive power of our state, with the support of society. No systemic problem, beginning with security and territorial integrity, has ever been resolved. It is very important that this should be directed, including to create the necessary conditions for the creation of the new quality of state and power required by Ukrainian society, starting with a new edition of the Constitution of Ukraine in the parameters of the parliamentary-presidential state system, decentralization, delegation of powers with the resources of the communities and the explicit fixation of Ukraine as a unitary state on the principles of territorial integrity. What we have to say about the socio-economic bloc is that, unfortunately, the government has not proposed a clear programme of action that relates to the exacerbation of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine, including events in the East, the South East. We have to remind ourselves that the population of the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, is about 14 per cent of the population of Ukraine, 15 per cent of GDP and more than 20 per cent of monetary yields. There should be clear monitoring programmes and concrete actions to prevent the socio-economic systemic crisis, followed by thousands of unemployed people and the next stage of the shocks in Ukraine. It is very important, and we insist on this, based on the legitimate President-elect of Ukraine, to form all structures of power not on party quotas or who better serves the interests of groups or provides access to resources. It must be a clear human resources policy that is directed, in principle, at state positions, at professions, at the experience of people who can and are willing to protect the interests of their state and to ensure its effective development. We are very concerned that, unfortunately, more and more cases of recovery of corrupt schemes of violent fiscal pressure on business, and this is unacceptable in the context of a sharp decline in Ukraine's economic performance, the loss of investment, will destroy our state, including those principles that shape our territorial integrity and place in the world. And to the end. The Economic Development Union insists on direct contacts between the Supreme Council and the newly elected President of Ukraine, where we must find strategic priorities that match the national interests of Ukraine, the protection of our statehood, territorial integrity and effective development. And that's what the entire Ukrainian people are waiting for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u7	The word is given to Alexander the Great. Please. He's handing over the National Deputy to Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u8	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Today, from the newly elected president of Ukraine, Parliament depends heavily on how events in the east of Ukraine will continue. The biggest hotspot in Ukraine today is the East. 10 million of our citizens are in a state of war every day, they wake up every day, and they don't know what the next day is going to be, whether there will be bombings, whether there will be military action in their village, city or other inhabited area. Today, nearly 60,000 of our military forces are fighting in the East and protecting Ukraine from terrorist and separatist acts. We have a unique situation in which the President and Parliament must unite and do their utmost to finally put an end to this war and bring about order and peace in that area. We see a lot of populist statements by political populists who are further disrupting the situation in a country that is rocking parliament, stirring up the active power and trying to make this Ukraine cease to exist in this format. So from the group "North European Ukraine" we're making a proposal on Thursday to hear the head of the anti-terrorist operation, the head of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the heads of law enforcement about the actual state of events that are taking place in eastern Ukraine today. What Parliament needs to do to help our military, to stabilize the situation, to stop the war, and to bring order and tranquillity to Ukraine. Second position. We realize that Ukraine has changed today. The Constitution, which works, speaks of Ukraine as a parliamentary-presidential country. There is an active coalition in Parliament that is ready to take on responsibility today and adopt laws that will really enable Ukraine to change. Today, the issue is that economic reforms are urgently needed. We call on the government to urgently introduce the key bills that were discussed earlier. Changes in the decentralization of power, changes to the budget code, which will be passed on to places of financial authority for city councils, district councils, district councils, and so on. Changes to the Tax Code, which should remove the burden on entrepreneurs and make it possible on January 1st to introduce a simplified tax system and reduce the amount of taxes. Changes that will allow for the reduction of the law enforcement agencies in part of the liquidation of the tax police, UBOPs, and other economic units that today terrorize business and prevent it from working. Alexander Valentine's Day, we want to thank separately for standing in the order of today's 7 drafts of our group, which are of vital importance to the population of Ukraine. But we can see that in Parliament sometimes there is re-voting for each other. That's why we're asking once again the question of putting in the room and voting on the Sensory Button Act, so that each MP can vote for himself and make this vote effective and that we can show that Parliament is really changing and becoming European. In short, Ukraine today needs change, we expect the government to have active bills, and within a month they can be considered to take effect as of 1 January 2015. And secondly, we expect that on Thursday we will make a decision regarding the support of our army, our law enforcement officers and to stop the war and bring peace to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Communist faction of Ukraine, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine gives the floor to the national deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u10	Dear voters, I would like to take this opportunity to inform you of the faction's actions, of our position as one of the most important problems of the present. In war, they say it's like war. When poor countries try to find extremes, they try to find someone to hang everything on. And now we're looking for our fellow Members of Parliament, and they want to translate their woes into others and journalists who support them. In this context, I'd like to pay attention, if you were watching "Secretaries" on 1+1 yesterday, there are so-called independent journalists there, although we understand that there are no independent journalists, they serve those who pay them, but there must be some kind of professional ethics and conscience. In Secret Materials, journalists agreed to do what the Communists said on May 2nd in Odessa were dumping the House of Trades and burning Odessyths. It turns out if you believe these journalists that Simonenko personally spends tens of millions of dollars on financing terrorists in Donbas and so on and so forth. No doubt they will be responsible in our courts, but we know what our judgments are. And the second. I would like to inform you that recently the leader of our party and factions has been in the leading European states and has met with our colleagues from the European parliaments. His meetings took place both with the parliamentarians of the Czech Parliament and with members of Parliament from the left party in the Bundestag of Germany and members of the faction of the Left Front in the National Assembly of the Parliament of the French Republic. This included a meeting with the leader of the European Left Prythean Party, Pierre Laurent, who in the last elections to the European Parliament increased her representation by one and a half times. During these meetings, three groups of problems were discussed with journalists and with representatives of the public. First. It's like finding ways and means to stop the war that's going on in Ukraine. Because in that, I think those who hear us are the only ones, both East and West. Because war is taking place in Donetsk and Lugansk regions. But the majority of Western Ukraine’s representatives are killed. And I think the whole state is supporting us in this matter of cessation of hostilities. Secondly, we need to sit at the negotiating table on the basis of those agreements that were concluded, including and under the auspices of the leading European states in February this year, and then confirmed in Geneva. In order to find the points that must be brought to peace so that there will be no military action on our earth. And the third direction. It's about the fact that Parliamentarians of the leading European states are the only ones in their desire to do everything they can to ensure that justice exists and that there is no unlawful arbitrary action to prevent people from practicing Communist ideas, to ban the Communist Party. I am convinced and firmly believe that the Communists in Ukraine were, are, and will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u11	From the impact faction, the word is Vitaly Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the task of Parliament is to finish the work with dignity. Therefore, those who do not attend meetings who do not vote in favour of the changes that are necessary for Ukraine are essentially involved in harmful activities. This council has to go to the polls. But she did not pay all her debts to the Ukrainian people. So now the question is to work with a double force. It's a requirement to work under the law. Following the rules does not mean that decisions that the country needs can be postponed indefinitely. When it comes to people's lives, economic recovery and governance efficiency, the committees should address the issue without delay. And these questions have to go into the order of the day. First of all, we have to legislatively support the conduct of an anti-terrorist action. Practice has shown a number of acute problems. Our ally in the fight against terrorists must be the local population. People want order and protection. Therefore, it is essential that the ATO forces be able to establish the interaction between the forces and civilians. A clear responsibility must be put in place for those who support terrorists and to protect those who take action against terrorists or who want to help them destroy them. These issues, in particular, help to resolve Bill 4912. It is necessary for the committee to examine it urgently, and it finally appears in order of the day. The same applies to the draft Decree 4968 — on the verification of the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. If vests disappear in an unknown direction, if dried rations are sold online, the blame should go to trial. The other one. The issue of the city of Kiev’s administration and its security must be addressed urgently. Janukovic stole the opportunity to run the city and stole a legitimate portion of their income. The draft bills correcting this injustice are projects 4939 and 4940 to be considered immediately. Third. When discussing economic bills, we need to remember, first of all, that we must eliminate the problems that killed the country’s economies at Yanukovich. Therefore, it is necessary to urgently consider projects to combat raiding (2999) in order to increase the responsibility of officials and officials of the supervisory authorities (3215-1, 3216-1) for the revolutionary simplification of regulatory policy. Dear colleagues, I want to speak to the Force again, to the Minister of Internal Affairs, to the Head of Security, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to each and every one of you. Attention! Two weeks ago, the head of the UDA party's total district organization, the head of the election headquarters of the President of Ukraine, the candidate for Presidents of Prussianka, and to this day, we cannot find this person. We need to take all necessary measures immediately to know the city where this man was found and to make sure that Sergey Lichman is found. This is very important and these things are unacceptable when people disappear in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u13	From the faction of the Party of the Regions, please, the People's Deputies of Guzenko have written me down. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u14	Respectable compatriots, distinguished colleagues, previous speakers spoke very beautiful words about the European Parliament, very beautiful words about the upcoming elections. To date, there is a war in the country. But it was called an anti-terror operation for one simple reason that it wanted to hold elections, and it was held. And now we're called to the next election. It must be good for someone. Slavyansk, Kramatorsk, Mariupol, Gorlovka, Schachterska, Pantelemonovka, Torez, Enakievo, Rubežne, Lisicansk, Severodonetsk, Red Light, Happiness, Rowenki, Suchodol, Lutugino, Stahanov, Krasnodon, Donetsk and Lugansk are a list of cities where the civilian population died and continues to die, where death came, where war and destruction came. It's not today for hundreds or thousands of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u15	I'll tell you who brought it. Those who carry out military actions against the civilian population live there for about 8 million people. To this day, technology is being fought against. In the city of Luhansk, in my hometown district, in the heart of the city, yesterday, a rocket fighter Su attacked a district government building. Seven people died, 10 people in severe condition. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come to Lugansk and see. What Is Separatism? Separatism is a separation. It is when people in power divide the country west and east, they mobilize soldiers, young people in the west, and they send them to die east. It's a separation, it's separatism. What is terrorism? Terrorism is a horror and fear of Latin translation. Military action, military equipment, fighters, who for 19 hours will smother peaceful cities -- terror and fear -- is terror over the people. Mothers of Ukraine stop the movement of transport in western Ukraine, stop the mobilization, lay on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop the war immediately! There are no winners in civil wars, civil wars leading to the destruction of the State. The Crimea is gone! Donbass is gone! To date, there is a question: who, at the level of the State at the international tribunal, will answer to the military for what is happening in the country? Peaceable people living on the Donbass will never forget or forgive such a relationship!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I would just like the speakers to speak objectively. Yes, indeed, there is an anti-terrorist operation that is directed exclusively against terrorists and divers who abuse Donbas and Luhansk. This is the purpose of the anti-terrorist operation: to stop terrorism, to stop the destruction of people, to stop the military of another country, who are killing, who are bullying, who are raping. And that's the purpose of an anti-terror operation to stop this crime. And he will be stopped so that no one will cry and no one will speak, and no intimidation here from the rostrum or north of our border will be heard. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let's take it from the non-fractional Oleg Lazko, and we'll take the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u17	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The peaceable people of Donetsk and Luhansk will not really forgive. They do not forgive Yanukovich, who robbed Donbas, who led people to a pen that brought billions of dollars out of Ukraine that sent war, sorrow, and tears to our Donetsk and Lugansk lands. The peaceful inhabitants of the Donetsk and Luhansk region do not forgive either Ephraim or his six - year - old Medianic, who has just been speaking out for cutting the mines, for the fact that there are now Kadir terrorists living in Ephraim’s businesses, who are killing the inhabitants of the Luhansk region. Notice, fellow citizens of Ukraine, a representative of the Party of the Regions is coming out, and who is he calling to stop? He's not calling for the terrorists to stop, he's not calling the terrorists to lay down weapons, he's not calling the terrorists to order them to kill Ukrainian soldiers. He urges us to stop the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian heroes who protect Ukrainian land. Tell me, what do you call this man? It's a traitor, it's a collaborator, it's a man who has nothing holy! And that's everyone who's covering the terrorists today. They're communists and regionals, they're funding, the Yanukovich gang is funding terrorism in Donbas, they're supporting terrorists. He's calling us to Lugansk, and we're happy to go to Lugansk, but we're going to get tied up and killed there, and nobody touches them, you know why? Because they're partners with terrorists. So you have to ask again, I'm talking about banning the Communist Party and the Party of Regions as cooperative, as traitorous organizations that are working for the enemy today. And we have to stop betrayers from giving speeches from the Supreme Council's rostrum, let them go to Gosdum and speak where they receive instructions in Moscow. Shame on the parasites and traitors!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! The name Ephraim’s deputy was called, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! I don't want to answer the completely absurd things that sound from this rostrum. I would like to invite you, in fact, to humanity and some sense of honor. And I ask you to observe a minute of silence and standing up to those people who were innocently killed by civilians yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u20	I ask the soldiers who have died to honor the moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u21	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down, and now let's hear from the Central Electoral Commission about the results of the election of the President of Ukraine on May 25, 2014. I have a statement from two factions about the break. I think we're going to consider this question, we're going to make a decision from it, and I'm going to call it a break. I invite the head of the Central Electoral Commission to the parliamentary rostrum. Please, Mikhailo Ohendowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! First of all, allow me, on behalf of the Central Electoral Commission, to welcome everyone with the official establishment and publication of the results of the extraordinary election of the President of Ukraine on 25 May 2014 with the legal election of the new Head of State. Yesterday, June 2, the Central Election Commission drafted a report on the results of the election of the President of Ukraine, according to which, on the basis of the election day, the President of Ukraine elected Prashenko Petr Aleksiyovich, who received 9 million 857 thousand 308 votes in the election, representing 54 whole 70 percent, i.e. more than half of the voters who took part in the vote. Today, reports are published in the media. I don't think there's any point right now in counting the many differences in this election process from all the previous ones, I'm sure they're known to everyone. Let me just remind you that the preparation of the elections took place in the context of an information war against our state, as well as numerous terrorist acts by illegal armed forces in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. I hope that there will never again be an election in our country under such conditions. But even in these voting conditions, elections were held in all areas of Ukraine, where they were provided for by law. The vote took place in 189 territorial constituencies and in a foreign constituency. On May 25, 29,213 polling stations were opened for voters, and the work of the electoral commissions of 3,000,23 districts were made impossible by terrorist groups. I have every reason to believe that hundreds of thousands of people who have organized elections in the district and district election committees, the electoral authorities and the Central Election Commission themselves have done everything they can to ensure that Ukraine is truly free, fair and fair. Even circumstances that seemed insurmountable to some to hold elections and that arose virtually every day in the last weeks before the day of the vote did not interfere with the organization of national elections. Despite the military occupation and annexation of part of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, voters of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol were given the opportunity to vote in their suitable polling stations of the mainland part of our country, and thousands of them were able to vote. Despite attempts by illegal armed formations that continue to operate in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas to disrupt elections despite intimidation, pressure and physical violence against members of district and district election committees from the election of the President of Ukraine was also held there. Yes, in the Donetsk region, there were 601 polling stations in eight constituencies, and in Lugansk there were 284 polling stations in two districts. Considering the organizers of the elections in these two regions of Ukraine as true heroes and patriots, the Central Electoral Commission has always welcomed the members of the District Election Commissions who delivered and handed us the minutes of the vote from these areas. I'm going to allow myself today to highlight three key, I think, conclusions. First. The recent elections were of a national nature. They were elected by all without the exception of the regions of Ukraine, and then the newly elected President of Ukraine was elected by the whole country. These elections and their results are absolutely legitimate both from a formal legal and a political point of view. The other one. Our nation has every reason to be proud of the high level of voter activity. A total of 60 percent of the total number of voters included in the electoral registers exceeded the total number of cases in Ukraine. And the third. Another very revealing fact deserves special attention. For the first time in the history of the election of the President of Ukraine, their winner, Peter Alexiyyovich Poshenko, received the largest number of voters in all without exception the regions of our state, not only at the national level. I cannot help but point out the first conclusions on the holding of elections by official observers from foreign nations and international organizations. Such conclusions are in fact unanimous and are a joint achievement of many of the organs of our nation. I will mention just a few of them: "The President's successive elections were held in accordance with democratic international standards and confirmed the democratic course of the Ukrainian people," observed the mission "The Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE." Noting that the efforts in preparing and holding the elections were significant. "The President of Ukraine's successive elections have taken place in a transparent and effective manner, with minor violations that have no impact on the results," said ENEMO. Observers of Canada's Cane mission also effectively assessed the election of the President of Ukraine: "the President's turnouts demonstrated improvements in the electoral system and the high voter turnout, the inadequacy was rare and had only an administrative character," the end of the quote. In unison, with these estimates, the head of the European Parliament, who called the elections transparent and in line with international standards, also expressed himself. But I also wanted to express today the common position of the entire Central Electoral Commission. Even the result achieved could be better in terms of voter appearances, the voting process itself and the subsequent vote count, if it were not for the simultaneous preparation of the presidential election and 315 local elections. The position of my colleagues on the Central Elections Commission is clear, and at the same time, the holding of national and large-scale local elections is fundamentally disorganizing both processes. At the same time, the use of the 2 voter lists, the lack of members of the electoral boards, the need for the simultaneous issuance of each voter to a number of electoral ballots caused many hours of turnout in the polling stations, complicated the process of counting votes and establishing the results of local elections in separate administrative and territorial units. So, taking this opportunity, I wanted to go to the Supreme Council with a proposal, despite the budget savings achieved, but in the future, I would still avoid the appointment of national and large-scale local elections for one day. I would like today, on behalf of the Central Electoral Commission, to express my gratitude to the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine, personally to the Chief of the Supreme Council, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, the Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of David Vážajevich Zvania, for responding quickly and effectively to the unexpected challenges that have arisen during this electoral process, for the amendments proposed by the Central Electoral Commission to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. We also certainly need to thank Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk, First Vice-Prime Minister Vitali Petrovich Jaremi, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Valentin Alexandrovich Natvajchenko, and Vice-Presidents of the Board of Directors, Mikolaiovich Yagun and Vitaly Antonovich Gyganka, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Arsen Borisovich Avakov and Deputy Minister Sergija Anatoliovich Jarovova. Personally, Minister of Defence Mikhail Volodymyrovich Kowalya, Head of the Office for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, Volodymyr Pavlovich Zvierev, for helping the Central Electoral Commission to ensure the implementation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. On behalf of the commission, I also wanted to express my appreciation to the local authorities and authorities of local self - government, which, to the extent possible and often beyond, provided the proper conditions for the work of the district and district election committees required by the Law. The President of Ukraine's successive election was due to each of the 18 million voters who took part in the vote. The result was that the State had a legitimately chosen head. And this undeniable fact cannot be questioned by anyone in the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Thank you, please sit down. Dear colleagues! On the basis of the decision of the electoral commission on the election of the President of Ukraine, we need to take with you the Supreme Council decree on the date, time and venue of the High Council of Ukraine's meeting on the oath-making of the Ukrainian people by the newly elected President of Ukraine. I ask the Secretariat to announce to all the deputies who are outside the hall that we will now make decisions. Dear colleagues, I will read the contents of this decree. It's a very short decision. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. "According to article 104 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 165 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: 1. To hold on 7 June 2014 at 10 a.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine A special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine devoted to taking an oath to the Ukrainian people by the newly elected President of Ukraine. 2. This decision takes effect from the day it was adopted." Dear colleagues, there is a question about the content of the decision? Yes. Please turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! You, of course, have authority and you can make decisions that you think. But June 7th is a memorial Saturday before the Trinity. I don't know if it's worth doing the inauguration on the memorial day. Maybe we should do it on the 8th, on the 3rd? It's a great holiday, it's a good day. But as you wish. I don't think they do these things on the Sabbath.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, this is a matter agreed upon by the newly elected President. This question is related to the invitation of international delegations, including leaders of the world’s leading countries. And, dear colleagues, there is an offer to support it on June 7th. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, I ask the Supreme Council to support the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order (registration number 4996) on the date, time and venue of the High Council's Commemorational Meeting on the taking of an oath by the Ukrainian people to the newly elected President of Ukraine. Please vote, Your Honor, for the inclusion in the order of this day's decree. Please vote. [[10:57:21]] For 299 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, allow us to take this decision as a basis and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the floor to vote? Registration number, I recall, 4996. Please. [[10:57:50]] For-300 You see, the constitutional majority. Decision taken. "For" is the 300 votes of the national MPs. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by two factions: this is the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party, requiring a half hour break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have an offer, instead of 12 hours we'll take a break now, and at 12 o'clock we won't take a break. Dear colleagues, there is the Rules, they have the right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u28	Let us vote on the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u29	I understand. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the King to vote for a recess. Yeah? Is there no objection? There's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that during the last session of this session, we have discussed the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the National Deputy of the Kingdom. And the Attorney General informed us about that. He also filed a motion of approval for detention and election regarding the royal national MP in the form of custody. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two votes to take. By individual vote, consent to criminal liability and to a separate precautionary measure. Is there no objection to our making a decision? None. Please, Your Honor, determine whether to consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please. [[10:59:43]] For 222 The factions, please. Region Party – 2, 73 – Fatherland, 36 – Impact, Economic Development – 28, Sovereign European Ukraine – 22, Freedom – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, I understand that not everyone has been able to vote. I inform you once again that we must hold two votes, two. A separate vote is to give consent to the attraction, separately, for the detention and election of the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Precautionary Action. I'm asking the first question -- attracting criminal responsibility, giving consent. Do you understand the question? I ask, fellow believers, not to ask five times, this is a responsible question and each should be responsible for his or her actions. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this proposal by voting. Please identify yourself, your honors, as to consenting to criminal liability. Please vote. [[11:00:55]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like us to support our agreement on the detention and election of the King's national MP as a precautionary measure of keeping in custody. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this proposal by voting. Please make up your mind. [[11:01:25]] For 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 79, Impact – 39, Economic Development – 23, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. Post-factions don't work, respectable colleagues. Thank you. My colleagues, I suggest you take a break for 11 hours for 30 minutes. I would like to ask for two factions of heads of MPs and factions to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. At 12 o'clock, I'll remind you, we're not taking a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I ask the staff of the secretariat to make an announcement and invite all the national deputies to the session room. After the break, please, the initiators are entitled to the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, on 2 June 2014, the Ukrainian Air Force attacked the Regional Public Administration building in the centre of Lugansk on the day. As a result of the shelling of the building and its adjacent park, at least 7 civilians were killed and a significant number were injured. The building that was hit is located in the very centre of the city, surrounded by residential homes, social infrastructures, and is currently occupied by people. The use by the authorities of military aviation against the civilian population is an unprecedented crime. To date, no statement has been made by the authorities, no steps have been taken to investigate crimes against Ukrainian citizens living in Luhansk. At the same time, the media are already overcrowded with conflicting, conceptual versions of what has happened. All of this can ultimately lead to impunity for war criminals who shot our citizens in broad daylight. [[B in m in s a l in]] In such circumstances, official authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u32	You're criminals! You're criminals because you're covering for terrorists! You're funding terrorists!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u33	By giving a criminal order, they are not interested in an objective, fair investigation and punishment of those whose conscience is peaceful.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u34	You do not condemn those who kill Ukrainian people. The criminals are Ephraim and the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u35	If we leave this situation unresponsive today, it will be considered that we have allowed the military to shoot and bomb the civilian population for the future. The only opportunity to establish the truth objectively is to investigate this war crime by an international criminal court in The Hague. In this regard, we have prepared a draft Parliamentary Decree recognizing the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court under article 12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute to investigate a war crime committed against Ukrainian civilians in the city of Luhansk on 2 June 2014. Those who share this view please support and vote in favour of the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! We have, unfortunately, both in Donetsk and in the Lugansk region, but the reason is only one: terrorists and divers who are trying to destroy people, by destabilizing the situation of the Russian Federation’s undeclared war against our country. And once again, the anti-terrorist operation is being carried out solely to protect the civilian population and our country and our citizens. There's no other purpose. In both Lugansk and Donetsk, there is a fight against terrorists alone, and it is the terrorists who destroy the forces involved in the anti-terrorist operation. And this is what they do by risking their lives every day and giving their lives to make Ukraine independent, sovereign so that all regions can live in a normal democratic country. And I would ask that we don't misinform people so that we don't protect terrorists. And somehow, in your statement, Alexander Sergiyovich has no information on how 12 hours were spent fighting for the destruction of our bordermen under Lugansk, no information. [[Applause]] Foreigners were shot at from residential buildings, snipers were beaten at their homes, not letting people out of their homes, and that is to say, it should be investigated at the Hague tribunal. And I ask you very much, fellow members of the Party of the Regions, do not cover up terrorists and give objective information to our citizens. Please, Your Honor, I can see a few hands. People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u37	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich! Given that you are conducting meetings of the Supreme Council and following current legislation, I would like to point out that any statements, speeches, speeches that fuel hatred within the country, covering the terrorists, should stop immediately. And the people who make these statements have to take responsibility. The minimum we have to ask is that we have to remove these people from the hall. This is the first time. Secondly, we need to set up a broadcast on the street, let all people hear these statements. And most importantly, when we are told that we have to follow legislation, our opponents, why do they start talking about war criminals? What war criminals? From the Russian Federation, who are looting our land? I'm good. But, excuse me, let's be clear, objectively accentuated, and all people, I repeat, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lazko. I see the hands, my dear fellows, I'll give you a chance to speak. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u39	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Similar unreliable statements by Mr. Ephraim pursue one goal: to demoralize our soldiers and stop them, otherwise to call the people who are fighting for Ukraine's independence for Ukraine's integrity, to call them war criminals. Who are you after that? Why do you not condemn killing our border guards, why do you, Ephraim, not condemn dozens of terrorists sitting in the U.S.A. Office in the Lugansk months and in the Slavonic? Why do you not condemn those who kill people in Branca, Stahan, Slaviansk, when their bellies are cut, their ears are cut off, their eyes pierced? You didn't have a statement of conviction, and behind the terrorists he pours crocodile tears! I want the Ukrainian Army, the National Guard, the law enforcement agencies, other actors in the anti-terror operation to know: the Ukrainian people -- with our heroes, the Parliament -- with our heroes, the newly elected President also supports the anti-terrorist operation. All Ukrainian society is in Ukraine and supports our fighters.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u41	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Fatherland faction, Party for Ukraine!".. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! You shouldn't take a break for almost 40 minutes, and then in this room all over Ukraine and all over the world, you'll have to tell an honest lie, and you'll be deceiving the entire world society. Everyone knows that it was the terrorists who shot the Ukrainian plane yesterday. Not hit, but hit the air conditioner, thus destroying part of the Luhana administration. Everyone in the world knows that if a Ukrainian storm had struck the administration, there would be nothing left! And you play by the fact that Ukrainian military personnel have no right to use force against the civilian population! That's why I'm telling you, in The Hague. Friends, in The Hague, were judging those who came into the territory of other nations with weapons in their hands. So in The Hague they will judge those who are now terrorists in arms.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u42	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u43	against the common Ukrainian people and against our independence. And such statements, as the deputy of Ephraim has now allowed themselves, are essentially a tool of terrorism and should receive a response from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. And follow the King’s steps to rid himself of the enthronement of the Ephraimites! [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko. I'll give you a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u45	Dear voters! You know, every day, all of us, members of the strike party, we get dozens of references from the Luganians of the common people who ask to protect them from the terrorists and separatists that Mr. Ephraim continues to feed today, who have lived all these years, stealing the budget of Ukraine and sitting on the tenders of these miners. Dear friends! We remember that as a member of the Regional Party, such a stepa urged Russian troops to enter Ukraine and shoot ordinary citizens. And where is she hiding today? And so we urge the Party of Regions to remember that you are not a party of separatists yet officially. You didn't judge when the terrorists bombed the school in Slavansk and the children hid in the basement. You have done nothing to help these people. We want to officially turn from our faction today to the Head of the Supreme Council, demanding that those members of the Party of the Regions be audited, such as Azarova, Yanukovich, the same Ephraim, who has not gone to work for months to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u47	Let me finish. In order for their wages to go to the Ukrainian army in these days, the armors are for our heroes, who today, including the people of Lugansk, are protecting them from the villains who are sitting in the session hall. And we demand that we put to the vote the disqualification of the parliamentary powers of all those who do not have the right to be called the Ukrainian national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u48	Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u49	I had to take the floor to answer you, my colleagues. Such statements, insults, arrests, threats of arrest, when you're driving out of the hall, when you're accusing, you're making Ukraine even more messy. What Oleg Lazko is doing here on this rostrum, what he's doing on Donbass, when he gets there and he's fighting there, in fact with the Ukrainian people, you're even more corrupting the country. Do you not understand that today we must finally sit at the negotiating table, meet all the conditions, all the demands of the people of the south-east, decentralize power, give the Russian language state status, and in principle destroy the cause of conflict? Bandits and terrorists are being driven out of Donbass on their own, and you're making sense of the existence of bandits and today the people, my countrymen, are trapped between you, the scandalists, and the bandits and the mariners who terrorize them, and that's your 100% fault.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u50	A national MP, a respected colleague, a theologian, and a risk. Please, I'll give another faction, like every faction, colleagues, every faction, I've given the opportunity to speak. Please. And non-fractional, and let's take the risk, we need to hear the Prime Minister's information right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u51	Respectable colleagues. Let us understand and wish that the Ukrainian people understand what is happening now. First. On Donbass, those who for 23 years have been kings, masters and actually feudals cannot now establish a basic order and protect the inhabitants of those regions from terrorists. They have lost the trust of people precisely because, during the last 10 years of the elections, the regionals have asked: we don't know why they vote for us because there are no roads, no heat, no ambulances can't travel to entire cities for 100,000 people, and that's because today you're only clinging to Parliament because you can't go back to your territories because you can't help people and you're not doing anything about it. Therefore, Parliament is elected once. And the anti-terrorist concept, the new anti-terrorist strategy, we must understand that Ukraine is today for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u52	Half a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u53	Ukraine is now in a situation in which Britain has lived with Northern Ireland for many years. Unfortunately, it is. We must understand this and Parliament must adopt a new anti-terrorist strategy that ensures the security of citizens in its own country. This is all very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u54	Please, Olesia Donny, and let's sum it up. Dear colleagues, once again, I have given everyone the opportunity to speak from every faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u55	If the Party of Regions wanted peace, the oligarchs in this party would have to share some of their finances with Ukrainian military, Ukrainian militia, Ukrainian border guards protecting territorial integrity. Where are these 15 billion, or how many are there in Ahmtow? Why do we all pick up vests for guys who protect territorial integrity, and this is where Ephraim and the company set up hell knows what's next to the microphone?Oh, my God! But you better just give some of your assets to people who are protecting the country from Russian fascists. Help the Ukrainian army, Ukrainian border guards, and Ukrainian militias! Until the oligarchs of the Party of Regions really want to help the state, there will be no word of confidence in their words.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, we've discussed enough of this, an important question. It's the protection of our citizens. And our forces will continue to protect our citizens from terrorists and diversors, from any provocations and mercenaries, and from the services of another country that do everything to destabilize the situation in our country and destroy Ukraine as an independent state. We will win this fight. And I am convinced that this is not only the majority of Parliament but also the majority of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues! We have a very important question now. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk's report on Ukraine's energy security and the financial and economic policies of our government. Please invite Arsenius Petrovich to the rostrum. I'm asking you to put a broadcast on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u57	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I had to start my speech today in the background of the Russian Federation's shut-off gas. But late last night, Russia gave up its plans to shut down Ukraine’s supply of natural gas. The question of the so - called previous payment for Russian natural gas has also been raised. I would like the entire Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people to know what is going on in the talks between Ukraine and Russia on gas and what is going on in general with the gas issue. Then it's no surprise to anyone. Once again, I would like to remind you that the Russian Federation, in the first quarter of this year, has determined the price of natural gas for Ukraine to be $268. We think this price is market price, we think it's the only reasonable price that can satisfy Ukraine and that keeps a fairly high level of profitability for Russia's Gazprom. We realize that the price of $268 was nothing but a bribe to the previous government. But at the same time, once again, we point out that in our bilateral negotiations, we are insisting on saving the price of $268. A month ago, Ukraine sent a pre-arbitrary claim to the Russian Federation. In line with this pre-arbitrary claim, we addressed Russia on the basis of a basic contract signed in 2009 to settle all issues of our bilateral relationship. First of all, it's a question of price. In the second place, it's a question of quantity of supply. Thirdly, it's a so-called principle take on pay. Fourth of all, this is about how our companies settle disputes. Unfortunately, Russia has done as always, namely, it uses energy as a gas weapon and at that time refused to negotiate and sign a new additional agreement between Russia's Gazprom and NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. Ukraine has made it clear that under such circumstances we are going to the Stockholm Arbitration Court and that on Friday night a lawsuit has been drawn up, according to which Ukraine requires a fair price in Russia, first and foremost, and Ukraine will require a number of compensation from Russia's Gazprom. However, our European partners have proposed a tripartite European Commission-shaped negotiations, with the European Commission being led by EU Commissioner Ettinger, the Ukrainian company NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, together with the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine and the Russian company Gazprom. We can say that yesterday was actually the beginning of a negotiation process between Naftegas and Gazprom. Is this negotiation process already completed? Far from it. I appreciate very much any prospects for negotiations between Gazprom and Naftogaz. But we have to go this way. We can see that as a result of this journey, there must be an additional treaty signed by the Ukrainian Naftogaz, which the project passed on on on Sunday night. Bilateral negotiations are now under way. I just got off the phone with the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. Now they're going to Berlin at Miller and Koboljev, which is the level of two company leaders. I don't rule out that this negotiation process, which is now being proposed by Russia, can also be a time-consuming tool, as Russia is in a difficult situation, first of all, in the international opposition and the visit of President Putin to Normandy, which should take place in 6 numbers, may have a bearing on the proposals of Russia's Gazprom to continue the negotiations. But by cleaning up any political aspects right now, I'd like to make it clear once again what's going on in the energy market. First, in 2013, the government of Yanukovic did not pay nearly one and a half billion U.S. dollars for the gas it received. The other one. In 2013, the Russian company Gazprom made a full annual advance payment for Russian gas transit. So we're two and a half billion dollars that we could get in the current year and pay for gas, they're gone. Third. During the first quarter of this year, no payments were paid, primarily for January and February, and the total debt that this government received when it took office amounted to $2.2 billion per gas. If you count two and a half billion US dollars that we should have gotten from Gazprom for gas leaks, and if you count the amount of credit and total debt, we estimate in an optimistic scenario the NAC deficit Naftogaz Ukraine 62 billion. In a pessimistic scenario, we estimate the NAC deficit "Naftogaz Ukraine" of 93 billion. The second is about our price. Under no circumstances will Ukraine pay Russia $500 per thousand cubic metres of gas. There will be no other discussion. It's not a market price, it's a political price. There is no such price in Europe. And if Russia sees Ukraine as a real cow, it is deeply wrong. [[Applause]] We're focused on protecting our interests. If the agreement isn't reached in the pre-arranged settlement of the dispute, we're going to the Stockholm Court. I want to make it clear that the Ukrainian government will use all means and methods to protect the legitimate rights of the Ukrainian State. We're not asking for anything in Russia, we're demanding a market approach, we're demanding a contract. We're willing to pay, not political, but market price. Third, with regard to the availability of gas in the repositories. Then, when we arrived, there were a total of 5 billion cubic meters of gas in the Ukrainian repositories. Those who know what 5 billion cubic feet [5 billion cubic meters] of gas is, in principle, an exclusive buffer gas that is virtually impossible to raise to the surface. The state of operations in Ukrainian gas shelters this morning is 12 billion cubic meters [12 billion cubic meters] of gas. We've accumulated resources, of course, not enough of these resources. And in order to go through the winter, at least we need to buy another 7 billion cubic meters of gas. Next. We signed a so-called small reverse with our European partners. The first volumes of this reverse will allow us to close our current demand for gas consumption. If we go to the big reverse in September-Yellow months, it will give us additional opportunities to ensure the country's energy independence. And as part of our work with our European partners, I would like to separate the position of the European Commission and the personal position of Barroso and the Slovak government, which is why we have succeeded in getting Ukraine to the first volumes of natural gas. Now with regard to the reform of the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. The government will decide on the reform of the National Shareholder Company. On the basis of the National Shareholder Company, we're going to be creating two additional companies, as friction requires an energy package and as required by both the Energy Charter and our membership in the Energy Co-owner. Ukraine will set up a public stock company called the Ukrainian Gas Transport System, which will only be responsible for gas leaking through highways. The other one. The Government of Ukraine will create a Public Shareholder Association "Ukrainian Gas Repositories", which will deal exclusively with stockpiling operations and corresponding discharges from Ukrainian natural gas gas repositories to all operators of forms of management. Third. We're talking to the European Union and the United States of America, and we're proposing a joint project on joint operation and modernization of the gas transport system. We believe that European and American investors should be involved in both modernization and the exploitation of the Ukrainian GTS and that is why a public stock company called the Ukrainian Gas Transport System is being set up. In particular, we would like to point out the need for reform in the country's energy sector. In view of the fact that investment in its own production has not been increased at all in the last five years, the situation of its own production is extremely difficult. In order to preserve at least the volume of our own production, we need significant investments or to build DSSs, which are called wet compressors. And in order to increase this amount of production, we need billions of investments in drilling. This drilling takes at least a year, up to two years depending on the amount of such investment to be invested. The amount that is projected for this year is 2.2 billion dollars is a drop in the sea. And that's why one of our important elements is the involvement of foreign companies and Ukrainian companies, the Crushing Company, and the increase in investment volumes to maximize the volume of their own gas production. As far as energy policy is concerned, it should be made up of two blocks: the first, the more we get, the second, the less we consume. Primary consumption is, of course, the private sector and primary consumption, of course, is the Heatcommunerge. We lack our own gas, which is the gas of our own production. And we have to buy 8.2 billion cubic meters of imported gas on the thermocommuner. You realize that the Heatcommunergo is exactly what gives warm and hot water and what warms our homes in the winter. And in the absence of a greenhouse gas, we are obliged to raise tariffs, but we are also obliged to invest primarily in the Heatcommuner to reduce our self - worth and to increase the energy efficiency of the Ukrainian energy system. We're looking forward to concluding negotiations with Russia's Gazprom over the course of the week. We had a plan for what to do if Russia shut down the gas supply. And we're frankly saying that Russia's gas shut down is not off the order of the day. It's absolutely clear that the Russian Federation will be fighting Ukraine with everything they can, including gas weapons. Everything we have in the arsenal is used. If the agreement is signed, I will inform Parliament of both the parameters of this agreement and the price of this agreement. If this agreement is not signed, I'll report to Parliament that we're going to sue Gazprom in Stockholm, the trial is not a month or not a year, but we don't see another way, and that list of energy reforms that have just been declared in Parliament will be carried out by the government. Thank you for your attention. If there's a question, I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the factions to sign up for a question if there are any questions. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kudri, the faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u59	Arseny Petrovich! Vladimir Kudra, Communist Party of Ukraine, City of Alexandria, Kirovograd. Today we need to talk about the energy security of our country. In the territory of the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd, there are huge deposits of storm coal. I believe that if today’s authorities began and revived the work of this coal pool, Ukraine already has half. It would protect its energy security. And the second. Wish from the electorate. When they met with the voters, they asked me to hand you over so that, starting today, you could live on a minimum wage and a minimum pension after living as a whole. Most of the Ukrainian people. And they paid for utilities and other services the size of which the people of Ukraine will pay as of 1 June.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u60	Thank you very much for asking. I strongly support you in your thesis. Ask Simonek to get started. I think this will be the right step towards showing that you really support the people of Ukraine. [[Applause]] So keep this social populism to yourself, please. As far as coal is concerned, I would like to inform Parliament that we are actually in the coal sector. In general, there are some 180,000 miners in government mines. Today, the government pays an average of one and a half thousand dollars for each ton of such coal tolls. With the cost, the commercial value of coal is up to 600 dollars per tonne. We're up to 180,000 people working in overcrowded conditions, primarily in Lugansk and Donetsk areas, 900 dollars per tonne. The total amount of grants that go into two areas is in Donetsk and Lugansk right into the coal sector, which is 34 billion dollars. That's what the central budget is all about financing the coal sector, and what the central budget is doing to keep these people from being driven out of the street, but giving them a job and giving them a salary. Coal-loaded warehouses. And unfortunately, Ukraine today is not as likely to move to coal as any other country in the world. The so-called project, which has been tried in Ukraine for the conversion of coal into natural gas, has remained exclusively a project that has no technological or economic basis. Because in the coal sector, I'd like you to hear 187,000 miners, 34 billion central budget grants, we're paying 900 dollars more than it's worth. Coal is stored in warehouses for the sole purpose of getting people a salary. This is the price of lack of reform in the coal sector for the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u61	Please, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Prime Minister. Alexander Stoyan, Economic Development Group. Please tell me if we can't agree on a reduction in the price of gas that you said was $268 per 1,000 cubes, whether there's a government plan to protect our population, whether it's going to be on the shoulders of the population, and there's not going to be an increase in the cost of utilities, tariffs. And the second question. What the government does is to actually increase its own gas production to somehow, well, provide the population with, first of all, gas at its own expense. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Stoyan, for asking. In the report, I stopped at it, but I'll say it again. When we arrived, there were 5 billion cubic meters of gas in the shelters, and those 5 billion cubic meters of gas couldn't be picked up, so that's zero. This is what we call buffer gas, this morning we have 12 billion cubic meters of gas. Even if Russia shut us down right now, it'll give us a period of time to survive. And the reverse, which we also got, gives us an opportunity to further cover our current needs. Is this enough to survive the winter? Not enough. To survive the winter, at least we have to buy another 7 billion cubic feet [7 billion cubic meters] of gas. We stated the price of 268, as we consider it to be marketable and reasonable. I'm absolutely aware that it's going to be difficult for us to get the price of 268. That is why we now claim to be the second. 500 we'll never take! The negotiating position that now exists may and may have some deviations from the price of 268. I'm going to talk about it quite accurately on my own, so that I don't give the wrong signals. We insist on 268. And we're definitely against 500, and we're not paying. As soon as we're done, I'm going to tell you about a deal that's at a specific price. If we fail, we have an appropriate court procedure that provides for both the filing of an action in general and the appeal to the court for the application of so - called precautionary measures. Because the court can go two years. But for Russia to supply gas and we paid for it, there is a so - called precautionary procedure. As far as the gas is concerned. So I'll even give you some figures here. I also talked about it in the report. What we have now is that we have in the last few years a fall in our own production. Now Crushing extracts 15.5 billion cubic meters of gas. Plus another 5 billion, that's what goes for the so-called industrial gas. So from a total of 20 billion cubic metres of gas 15 goes to the population, and 5, because several times in Parliament there was no law that would oblige any company that extracts gas in Ukraine to give it as a gas to the population, 5 billion goes to the industry. That is why we will again insist that such a law be passed so that the total amount of gas of our own production goes to the needs of the population. As far as investment is concerned. There will have to be a formula in which, if there is an increase in the amount of investment, the investee can use the gas for his own needs. The more you win, the more you eat. The investments that are now in the state sector, and 2.2 billion is not an investment. It's just to start a hole and not even finish it. So, in the current year, our job is to save the current level of production, to set up a rainy compressor station that will allow this level of production to be maintained, to accept the relevant acts in Parliament, and, of course, to sign with Gazprom, or to win a court in Gazprom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u64	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, you can fully agree with the two thoughts that you've said on the grounds that without energy efficiency, energy conservation and diversification, we're talking about energy independence as a matter of no use. So I have two questions: what is now the status of the relationship and agreements with Shell Corporations, Shevron for the extraction of solar gas and solid sandstone gas in Ukraine, at which stage are we now in the wake of these negotiations? Second question. Today, more precisely in November, I introduced a bill. Today it's in the order of the day on energy audits in Ukraine, which is supposed to be exactly what you said to rationalize the use of energy carriers. In particular, this bill provides for the first year of materialization of this law to be saved. How will the government view this? So first, Shell, Chevron, Exson Mobile. And the second is an energy audit. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. It is a little difficult to extract gas from our foreign investors in the territory of Slovenia. There are temporary problems. And that's where the main institutions of this Shell gas are. With regard to the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is a Ukrainian territory, foreign investors have refused to extract gas in Russia’s temporarily occupied territory. By the way, I'll say it separately on Crimea. You may recall the debate since 2005 that the Russian Federation claimed that Ukraine was stealing gas in Russia. Now I can boldly say that the gas is being stolen by the Russians. [[Applause]] They stole the territory from us, they stole the Blackmoreneftegaz. They stole 2.2 billion cubic metres of gas from the Crimea. So who's stealing? [[Applause]] Audition. So we're working with the World Bank, we're working with the European Energy Agency. If your law, I can honestly say that I don't know the details of your law, but if this law introduces a necessarily energetic audit, I strongly support it. Because no one knows the real picture in energy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to raise your hands, because I give my word to those deputies who have been chosen by the "Council" system during the recording. Please, National Deputy Bezbach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Anne Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u69	Please turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u70	Mr. Prime Minister, your principle position on energy matters cannot but be impressed. Yet, when you present to Parliament a plan to protect people who are ordinary from these challenges? Is there such a plan? And how can we guarantee to every citizen that he will not bear the basic burdens of, say, getting to the Stockholm Court on his shoulders? That's the first question. And please. Another very important question. In Kramatorsky and Slovenian, long periods of time do not pay people’s pensions; this increases the support of separatists. We need to make sure that those people understand what Kiev cares about them and remembers them. Can you please tell me when we can give people an answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. First of all, I'll start with prices and tariffs. Decisions have already been made on the first stage of rising prices and tariffs for residential services. And I presented in Parliament figures when prices of natural gas for the population in Ukraine were lower than even in Russia. I can honestly see that this is going to hit the pockets of the Ukrainians. That's why we've taken the appropriate order, which conceptually changes the compensation system for the population. Now we have a total of about 1 million people under the aid and grant system. We realize that once prices and tariffs are raised, people will not have enough money to pay them. That is why the government has expanded the compensation programme, which now has four and a half million families, which is a total of almost 30 per cent of Ukrainians will be compensated by additional compensation. For the budget, it's an incredible expense, but we have no other option, the one who has nothing to pay, the poor one gets compensation from the budget. And those who live in large houses need to pay, including help those who do not have the opportunity to do so. As far as three cities are concerned. It's Kramatorsky, it's Slavyansky, and it's Anthracite. Armed terrorists don't just kill civilians, their cynicism has reached the point where they've begun robbing banks, attacking the employees of the Crucifixion, attacking the Rescue. And people who retire to a person, whether in Slavyansk or Kramatarsky, can't even get out of their room because they're being robbed right on the street by peaceful citizens with AK-74 rifles. In all other cities, we pay for everything in Donetsk and Lugansk. I want to give you the latest numbers. Yesterday morning, I just got the numbers so you know. Donetsk and Lugansk in the past month did not have an additional 422 million dollars. 220 million dollars was not paid by Donetsk and 202 million dollars was not paid by Lugansk. At the same time, we closed it to a penny. We've closed our pensions, we've closed our salaries, we've closed our benefits, we've closed our subsidies. The level of coverage of what we collect and what we pay is one to two. So we collect 55 percent, and we pay in Donetsk and Lugansk 100 percent. Why are we doing this and doing it? Because Doneck is Ukraine, Lugansk is Ukraine. We'll kick the terrorists out of there. And Ukraine will be the only, unitary, independent state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Palamarczuk, Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u73	Please give the floor to the deputy of Novak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u74	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, it is known that the electricity that is exported is exported at the price of 65 copies is daily, and the night is 35 copies. Instead, the national manufacturer buys it on a bracelet of twenty - six. I have a question. What does the government do or plans to do to level this situation? Because our manufacturer is uncompetitive. And the second. What state of affairs do we have regarding our property in Crimea, including energy companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u75	As far as the lawsuits are concerned. Ukraine has started this process now, and I would like to inform you that the Attorney General's Office has launched an investigation and in a criminal case, the Ukrainian government is suing more than 1 trillion dollars. The problems lie in the international legal plane. Not so many options are available to go to court. But without divulging all legal details, we use all possible and legal methods to bring the Russian Federation to justice. I would like to point out in particular that we have already filed two lawsuits that have been brought before the European Court of Human Rights, just after the annexation of Crimea and under the responsibility of the Russian Federation to Ukraine. We are also preparing additional lawsuits, fatigued by the authorities of the state and the authorities of the Russian Federation for the illegal seizure and looting of Ukraine. This will have to be done. We realize that such trials do not take place in a month. But such trials will have a result. As far as electricity is concerned, I think this should be a separate conversation here. The only thing I can tell you very clearly is that we are now starting to export electricity. Who sells, at what price, what share of the market we have and what income from electricity exports goes to the Ukrainian Treasury. According to the Ukrainian electricity component, 50 percent of us now have nuclear power, and it needs substantial investments that haven't been there in the last few years. Here, I would also like to say separately that we have a dependence on Russia, namely, in terms of terms. And that's why the government of Ukraine has decided to diversify fuel for nuclear power plants, we've renewed the contract with the Westinhouse, and now we're adding fuel to the American company Westinhouse, which is increasing Ukraine's energy independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u76	Please, dear fellows, I see it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u77	It's been twice now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u78	Colleagues, we still have two people on board, but I'm still going to carry out the commission of Parliament and those chosen by the "Council" system, and they're going to ask questions. Please, Freedom, Mishchenko National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u79	I ask you to pass the word to the head of the faction of Oleg Tsagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u80	He's handing Oleg over to Dragnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Please tell me, is the government planning to adopt a decision on the implementation of the Third European Energy Package? Because, in our opinion, this may be the reason why we don't approve, the braking of reverse supplies. The other one. Should we not, in talks with Russia, establish a proportional dependence on Russian gas transit prices by our territory on the vacation prices they offer us for their natural gas? Third. Please tell me, shouldn't we start selling our own gas right now for the needs of the population, with a view to lowering prices for residential services? And the fourth. If you please, your opinion on lifting the ban on the 2005 Cabinet of Ministers decree to prohibit the setting up of individual heating for the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u82	Dear Oleg Jaroslavovich, thank you for asking the right questions. And so once again, with regard to the implementation of the Third Energy Package, we will definitely reform the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine. The government is creating a public stock company called the Ukrainian Gas Transport System, in which, according to the Jesovo directives, according to our commitments to Ukraine's membership in the Energy Community, only one will be involved in transporting gas, as required by our membership in the Energy Community. The other one. We're creating a separate, public stock company called Ukrainian Gas Repositories. This will be a purely operator who will work with all natural gas users. Third. As part of this work, we have made a public appeal to Europe, which is the time to change the point of access to Russian natural gas. I would like to remind you that now, for unclear reasons, Russian natural gas is being accepted by the European Union, not on the border of Ukraine-Russia, but on the border of the European Union-Ukraine. That is why we have made a public statement, and I have officially addressed the European Commission and the Heads of State of the EU Member States and the US administration on this point of access, and if we cross the point of access, that means that we already have transit contracts with our European partners. And that means we're building a new relationship with the Russians. Let me not go into detail for very many reasons, but the plan that is now in government is the only one that is faithful and directly meets our obligations within the EU. We believe that, together with Europe, we must change the energy map of the European Union as a whole. And it's not just in the interests of Ukraine. Europe is also being bullied by Gazprom. Gazprom and Russia are also trying to offer one a better contract, the other a worse one, a closer one, a further drag. That is why we fully support the idea of creating an energy society by the European Union. If Europe has one single energy policy and does not allow gas to be used as an energy weapon and gas to be treated exclusively as a product, in such circumstances Ukraine, as a country that has ratified the Energy Charter and is a member of the Energy Community, will also play one of the key roles in Europe's energy. And finally. As for Russia's position at all. You know, before the presidential election, we had two attempts at a terrorist attack on the Ukrainian gas transport system. These attempts took place in the territory of the region of Ivano-Franco. We have managed to prevent both victims and transit breaks, but we are well aware that such attempts were aimed at discrediting the Ukrainian gas transport system, aimed at halting transit, at proving to our Western partners that Ukraine is an unstable state, and aimed at the main goal of legitimizing the South Stream. That is why the position of the Ukrainian government is clear and unchangeable. We think of the South Stream project as a project aimed at increasing Europe's energy dependence; it's a project aimed at removing Ukraine from the common energy policy with the European Union and it's a project aimed at strengthening the position of Russia's Gazprom in Europe. And it has nothing to do with energy security. That's why we urge the European Union to block the South Stream. Ukraine is a reliable transitor! We have fulfilled and will fulfill our obligations. If Russia doesn't interfere.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u83	Thank you. National deputy Ariev. Dear colleagues, very many hands, me. All those who sign up, I'll let them speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u84	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Arsenija Petrovich, we all understand very clearly that Russia for Europe has ceased to be a normal reliable partner in the supply of gas. So Europe is now looking for alternatives, and this alternative is to build LNG terminals for the adoption of appropriate tankers from Qatar and the United States. One of these ports is planned in Poland and the other is planned in Croatia. Including whether or not you think Ukraine can join the transport. the gas transport corridor for the transport of compressed gas: Croatia, Hungary, Ukraine with a centre in Brodas, and Poland-Ukraine. Or were such options considered, since Ukraine, among other things, should join the combined gas adoption program from Qatar and the United States as alternatives to gas from Gazprom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u85	We're looking at all the possibilities for energy diversification. I'd like to remind you that a project was being considered in Ukraine on the construction of its own Elengi Terminal. But unfortunately, one of the main issues is not solved is how to get through Bosphorus. I had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Turkey, Mr. Erdogan, asking us to consider transporting Elnge through Bosphorus. There's no answer yet. If we don't have a proper transit, then the Elnge Terminal project that has been planned over the last few years is, unfortunately, very difficult to implement. We also offered not to build a terminal but to rent a platform. We've had negotiations with appropriate American companies, but likewise, everything is resisting a stream that is virtually impossible to pass right now. With regard to the new project that's going on in Elnge, we're looking at this question, if it's real, I'm going to report to Parliament. Honorable Members of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u86	Arsenija Petrovich, the national deputy Zviagiliski is very much asking. He's been holding his hand for the second hour, so let's give him one last chance. Well, and Rudzkowski, because he won't forgive us if we don't let him ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u87	I understand so much that the Parliament of Merged Gas: Croatia, Hungary, Ukraine with a centre in Brodas, and Poland-Ukraine. Or were such options considered, since Ukraine, among other things, should join the combined gas adoption program from Qatar and the United States as alternatives to gas from Gazprom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u88	We're looking at all the possibilities for energy diversification. I'd like to remind you that a project was being considered in Ukraine on the construction of its own Elengi Terminal. But unfortunately, one of the main issues is not solved is how to get through Bosphorus. I had a conversation with the Prime Minister of Turkey, Mr. Erdogan, asking us to consider transporting Elnge through Bosphorus. There's no answer yet. If we don't have a proper transit, then the Elnge Terminal project that has been planned over the last few years is, unfortunately, very difficult to implement. We also offered not to build a terminal but to rent a platform. We've had negotiations with appropriate American companies, but likewise, everything is resisting a stream that is virtually impossible to pass right now. With regard to the new project that's going on in Elnge, we're looking at this question, if it's real, I'm going to report to Parliament. Honorable Members of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u89	Arsenija Petrovich, the national deputy Zviagiliski is very much asking. He's been holding his hand for the second hour, so let's give him one last chance. Well, and Rudzkowski, because he won't forgive us if we don't let him ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u90	I understand that Parliament is bored without a government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u91	Arsenius Petrovich, respected Arsenius Petrovich, two questions please. So it's the first one. So there's a lot of gas in Ukraine, you know that, so I think it's necessary to take inventory of previously issued licenses, because there's a lot of space without development, they're just bought for business, they're reselling. Describe the order in this regard. That's the first question. Second question. You're saying that a lot of coal is in storage, so today we've been allowing Ukraine for the past two or three years to drive 12 or 13 million tons of coked coal, to dump on the ground, please put in order, introduce quotas for imports.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u92	Dear Efim Leonidovich. Thank you for asking. I have a request to you that, as to one of the most worthy members of the Ukrainian Parliament, you might ask your parliamentary colleagues to return the licenses to the State they have taken over the past 10 years? So here's all the licenses, there's 5 billion gas mining that doesn't go to the population, or isn't that true? Is this news for everyone? There are no laws that do not allow additional gas to be sent to the population. There were so - called joint agreements here, which none of them because of joint activity and through the courts could not be terminated. So, dear friends, the time has come to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u93	National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Over the past five years, the money in Ukraine has been privatized as an oblenergo, a scoundrel. Today, for example, the 12 obelenergies belong to the Russians. These companies get billions of dollars. And the population is being priced for gas, for electricity. Is it not time to make a decision to nationalize the monopoly into state property? That's the first question. The second question. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, now thousands of people have gathered at the Supreme Council because they are being evicted from their homes. They're the ones who took the currency loans. We ask for the support of your government -- 4953 and 4895 -- so that we can process these laws and adopt them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u95	I am so aware that the distinguished Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Rudzkowski, proposes to nationalize all the assets of Dmitri Firthash. Do I get it right? We'll consider your proposal according to the law. The only thing I want to say is that it's not the government's jurisdiction. But we will do what the law and people of Ukraine require. When it comes to the issue of currency loans. We were able to increase the gold reserves. Now the number of gold reserves is $18 billion. In these extreme conditions, when there was a 40-thousand Russian army on Ukraine's borders in general, when inside Ukraine, terrorism, well, softly speaking, was difficult to involve international investors. It's hard to believe that the best place for investment in the current situation is Ukraine. But we're doing it somehow. At least international financial organizations have issued everything they have promised. This is the International Monetary Fund, this is the World Bank, this is the European Investment Bank, this is the European Development and Reconstruction Bank. As for private investors, yes, there is a problem. Now, let's talk about the course ingredient. The National Bank and I are thinking about how to help these people. Because this is a causal link. People took credit, they didn't pay back their loans. If they haven't returned the loans, the bank doesn't have the money. If the bank doesn't have the money, the bank has nothing to return. So they took the loan, they didn't pay back the loan -- there's nothing to issue a new loan. That's why there's no simple solution here, I'm telling you. You can take the law and write: let's all put 1 to 5. That's gonna be a lie. I won't lie to you. So it's naked populism. Because then we're not going to deposit, then we're not going to lend. People need to tell the truth: The situation is difficult. Now we're holding course at 11.92. In these circumstances, however, we would have to be more than twice as soft. We're going to do everything we can to stabilize the course and work the mechanism through repayment and protection schedules and people and banks and those that put into these banks. Thank you for your attention. On Friday, honourable national deputies, I will report to you on an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u96	Arsenius Petrovich, well many more questions, you see. My colleagues, I'd be happy to give you the opportunity to do that, but the Prime Minister is actually late for his job, where he needs to run the country, the socio-economic processes that you see are going on in quite difficult conditions. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to disperse the national deputies, we will now have to make decisions, vote, speak. Now, colleagues. Friends, Friday. I'll remind you, there'll be an hour of government on Friday, and I'll invite the Prime Minister again and invite the ministers. So that we can ask a question, because, really, a lot of questions have accumulated, I see that, my dear colleagues, and I support you. Dear colleagues, we have begun with you to pause the consideration of the issues to be decided on, that is, the decision taken on the issues discussed on the last day of our session. I'm asking us to get through this block quickly. Let me remind you, we need to make a decision without discussion, we've discussed this question, just to vote. So once again, I ask the secretarial staff to invite all the deputies into the hall so that we can make decisions. As for the first reading. Right after the decision is made, we're going to start reading first and I'm going to make an offer to first look at this project that we talked about with you. Colleagues, by law, I ask that we work quickly. There is a great deal that we need to discuss today and make decisions on the issues under discussion. 4436. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. 4436 registration number. This is a draft of the Law amending the Land and Forest Codes for the maintenance of electrical power supplies. Dear colleagues, the question is clear. First reading, please, about the reception. Based on the base. Colleagues, please make up your mind, Parliament, 4436. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:48:33]] For 203 The factions, please. The decision is not taken. 26 – Party of Regions, 55 – Fatherland, 0 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Freedom – 33, Company 0 – non-fractional – 36. Please, Your Honor, next question is 2149. Draft Act amending the Law on Administrative Services (to eliminate corruption in the provision of administrative services). Dear colleagues, anti-corruption law. May I remind you, registration number 2149. Please identify yourself with regard to the adoption of this law as a basis. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[12:49:23]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 4 – Party of Regions, 60 – Fatherland, 30 – Impact, 24 – "Economic development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 27, 33 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 35. The offer, the honourable colleagues, to re-read this law, do I understand your support? Ladies and gentlemen, please support the rereading. Please vote again first. [[12:50:02]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the following question is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on settling the issue of responsibility for domestic violence. Registration number of this bill 1181. Please support me as a base. Please be appointed to the Supreme Council. [[12:50:41]] For 249 Decision taken. In general, there is no desire to vote? There's no wish. Let's go back to work. Dear colleagues, next question (registration number 3042) is the draft law on the Ukrainian State Bureau of Investigation. Please, your honor, an important question, 3042 registration number. I'd like to base your support. Please vote. [[12:51:18]] For 122 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 63, Impact 1, Economic Development 3, Sovereign European Ukraine 5, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 15. Dear colleagues, a serious question. Please turn on the microphone of Andria Kozemekin to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to ask you to put to the vote the proposal to return the author of the legislative initiative. Why? Because it's our first reading of the bill? So, please, in order for it to go anywhere again, first of all, it needs to be left behind, because this is a requirement of the European community, this is a requirement of the Criminal Procedure Code and this is a requirement of the Constitution to remove from the Attorney General's Office a preliminary investigation and to hand it over to the State Bureau of Investigation, as stated in the Criminal Procedures Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the committee's proposal to refer the bill to the committee for re-reading, because this law is important enough, but this law needs to be aligned with the draft Prosecutor's Office Act, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for that. to reconcile all issues of the subordination and activities of these law enforcement agencies. I'm asking you to support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Dear colleagues, for the first time again, come on, we're not discussing the issue right now, we were already discussing it in the hall when it was reported. Please support the proposal of two committee heads and vote in favour of this law by sending it back to the first reading. Please, Your Honor, 3042 registration number for re-reading. Please be supportive. [[12:53:29]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party – 22, 64 – Fatherland, Impact – 27, 11 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18, 33 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. Dear colleagues, the next question is the registration number 3818. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices on Improving Public Health Care by Medical Measures for the Treatment of Socially Dangerous and Serious Diseases. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to base your support for this project, 3818. Please vote. [[12:54:17]] For 282 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 2246. This is a draft law amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families on the granting of educational aid to persons whose parents are members of the military. Please, Your Honor, identify and support this law as a basis, that is, in the first reading, please 2246. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:54:59]] For 253 Decision taken. The next question, dear colleagues, is registration number 4402. This is a draft law amending the Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons (to increase the minimum pension for members of families of military personnel in the event of the loss of a breadwinner). Please, Your Honor, determine how to support this project as a basis. Please. [[12:55:38]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to increase the level of social protection of war veterans). Dear colleagues, registration number of this project 4081. Here's the basics. Is that a question? Please give the head of the profile committee, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! A faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues! If you remember, last week, when this bill was discussed, the faction demanded that the profile committee, instead of the "fluent" language, could be passed on, would have written the mandatory norm "transferable free of charge". Only in this case will the faction support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! I'll remind you and the national MPs tell you that the law is being voted in the first reading, that is, on the basis of the second, you can make appropriate proposals, change to this law, and the Supreme Council will determine. Now, before the first reading, the law of the Rules does not provide for such a rule. Dear colleagues! Please support this project (registration number 4081). Please, on the ground. [[12:57:17]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 2563, this is a draft law amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition on State Control of Concentration of Hostiles. Please, Your Honor, please make up your mind on this matter. Registration number 2563. Please vote. Based on the base. [[12:57:59]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Please ask me the next question, dear colleagues. The factions call for deputies. Please show me. 28 – "Party of Regions", 2 – "Paternal Fathers" – "A Impact" – 26, 25 – "Economic Development", 18 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 0 – "Freedom", 23 – non-fractional 24. Dear colleagues, the next question includes two alternative laws: 3614 and 3614-1. These are draft laws amending the Ukrainian Development Act and State support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. Please, the head of the profile committee, Alexandra Kugel, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u103	I just want to remind you that the committee's decision was to support the first reading of 3614. They're the same, but there's a more accurate text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I will be the first to put the vote to the vote. Please support this project on the basis. Please, Your Honor, vote. 3614. Please vote. [[12:59:16]] For 148 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 28 – Regions, Fatherland – 65.6 – Impact, 11 – Economic Development, 8 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 0.0 – Company, non-fractional – 30. The next law, alternative, has registration number 3614-1. Please, Your Honor, determine your support for this law as a basis. Please vote. [[12:59:54]] About-97 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 3375, the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children (for setting the age of children in institutions of rest and recovery with parents). Dear colleagues, please! Social law matters to those who have children. Please support me as a base. No. 3375, please identify your distinguished colleagues. [[13:00:39]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now a healing period, people go to rest with their children, let's take the law as a whole. Please support this project registration number 3375 as a whole. Please, dear fellows. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:12]] For 277 "For" is the 277 votes of the national MPs. Decision taken. The factions, please. 37 are the regions, the Fatherland is 65, the Impact is 12, 28 is the Economic Development, 28 is the Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 is Freedom, 23 is the UK Company, 50 is non-fractional. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 2012. It's a draft of the Public Funding Act. I'm asking No.2012 on a base. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:01:59]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions. 1 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 65, Impact – 30, 24 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, 34 – Freedom, 0 – Company, opposition – 33. Dear colleagues! I'm the only one in the room who wants to know. Usually the opposition is interested in being open to the use of public funds, and the rulers, always, vote for other things. On the contrary, we now see that most people are asking to uphold this law, and the opposition does not want public funds to be made public. Fellows, let's try again, let's go back to this question, I'll put it to the vote again. Please, dear fellows. Project (2012a). Please support a return to this question. Please vote. [[13:03:04]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please support this project on the basis. Please vote, (2012a). [[13:03:27]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's take this as a basis, for a reduced procedure, we can vote, in favour of a reduced procedure, on this issue. Please, Your Honor, back up. [[13:03:51]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues are preparing the law in full procedure, I don't see a serious problem here. Dear colleagues, the next question is, we're already finishing this block. This project has registration number 2883, the draft Act on Amendments to Article 26 of the Employment Act concerning the Employment of Graduates of Schools. Dear colleagues, 2883 on a basis, please identify yourself as the Supreme Council. [[13:04:32]] For 249 Decision taken. For the faction, please. The Party of Regions – 28, 65 – Fatherland, Impact – 1, 32 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 34, 23 – Company, 40 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, next question. Registration number 1220-d, draft Act, (please, colleagues, calm down, please), draft Act on Amendments to Article 107 of the Ukrainian Labour Code on pay on holidays and non-working days. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues for a basis. Please make up your mind. Please vote. [[13:05:22]] For 225 Dear colleagues, yes, 225. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 3 – Regions, Fatherland – 64, Impact – 30, 31 – Economic Development, "North European Ukraine" – 8, "Freedom" – 34, 24 – KPU, non-fractional – 31. Are there any suggestions to go back to that question? Colleagues, please return to this question. I ask the Supreme Council to return to this matter. Please make up your mind. [[13:06:06]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Sadly, dear colleagues, we do not go back to that question. And the last draft of the law on how we should make decisions is 2306a, this is the bill on electronic commerce. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to accept this project. Please ask the Supreme Council to determine by vote. Based on the offer. [[13:06:47]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Now, that's when you're going to join the agenda, I understand you're not going to do anything here. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the question in the first reading. As far as I am concerned, my colleagues remind me of questions about the protection of those who have taken credit and cannot repay. Colleagues, it's the working group that's working today. As far as I know, at two o'clock? At two o'clock, the task force will be working today and tomorrow. And, dear fellows, let's do what we have agreed. I would ask that we include the representatives of investors at the working group meeting. Let us be definitively determined by this question tomorrow. And on Thursday, they had the opportunity to make decisions, honourable colleagues, and they had this opportunity. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Kyle, I'm asking you to turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm the head of the working group that's working on these bills. Yesterday was the first meeting of this working group. Orders were made to the National Bank of Ukraine, appeals were made to the Ministry of Finance, Nazcomsia, requests were made for information on the number of borrowers, the number of funds borrowed, at what rate and at what time. The committee will continue its meeting tomorrow at 2 p.m. I call upon the deputies, representatives of all factions and groups. Because yesterday at the meeting of this working group there were only Freedoms and Strikes. So I invite everyone to participate in the work of this commission tomorrow, once again, at the Committee on Finance and Banking at 2 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone. I can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u107	Thank you. I want to say that yesterday, since the twelfth, a meeting was held under the authority of Sergey Teryochyn, Mr. Rudzikowski. Unfortunately, Mr. Kyde, no one has informed us of your meeting. We gathered with the public and worked for two hours. What we're proposing today, please. One hundred percent in favour of your proposal, Mr. Kayde, is one hundred percent in need of further work on the bill on very many issues. It's a question of fixing the rate and it's a question of fixing the interest that's changed twice, it's a question of changing the collateral. The National Bank worked with us yesterday for two hours. There are some questions that we would like to consider next. First. Today, vote on a bill on a moratorium on the sale of first housing and the inability to pass it on to collectors and others before the adoption of the relevant law. What we're asking you to do!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I support the proposal made by Alexander Volodymyrna. But in order for MPs to be able to identify themselves, they need to make this offer so that they can at least read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u109	They won't read it! It's half-pages, Alexander Valentinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u110	Fellows, I say again, let's not take it so we don't know what we're voting for. Print this project, please, because in this, Mikola Mikolaiovich, as you say, it's a moratorium on any confiscation at all. And Alexandra Volodymyrna is talking about the first apartment in families that have children, and that's what I understand. You know, it's different things. So I ask you to print, distribute, and the MPs will get to know each other, and if they don't deny it, I will. Well, out of voice, colleagues, I'm not going to put a question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u111	Let's vote for the day!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u112	Colleagues, one more time. Include in the agenda. Okay. What project? Project number?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u113	May I? Literally. Alexander Valentinovich, it's about people coming to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and they have two requests, they've come from all over Ukraine, no buses are paying, no people are baking, people are putting on the street, crisis! We understand for ourselves that people have nothing left to pay, 500 dollars are taken away from apartments that people have already paid $100,000. It's about what. Yesterday we also worked on a short Law 4953 – imposing a moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property on foreign currency loans. So this is a request: first, to put in today and vote what to talk about here, the moratorium, so they don't take property away, because while the working group is going, it means that they are now being transferred from the banks to the collectors' companies, taking people's apartments! Where will they go? Yes, they'll come to us, to the deputies at home. So question number two, 4895. People insist that they include at least a first reading today, and the task force continues to work on it, and we find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u114	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I support the proposal to include in the agenda a bill to impose a moratorium on evicting people from their homes. That's not a problem. Before that, Mr. Yatsenuk, Prime Minister, spoke and said that this was a human problem. No, it's not a human problem. This is a problem for the National Bank, which has granted permission to issue foreign exchange loans in Ukraine. I think it was a completely wrong decision. And then people would collect four dollar bills, and today they would have to pay twelve. And the person paid 80 percent for, for example, an apartment or a car. Today they come to it, and for 100 bucks they take this apartment, the car. Families are thrown out on the street, and no money is paid back for this apartment and property. And they're left with nothing. It's a problem created by the state, and the state has to solve it. So I support the proposal for a bill to regulate the payment of foreign exchange loans to impose a moratorium on evictions from.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u116	National Deputy Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head, we've been handed over the draft decree. Let's have a bill, let's get this voted out quick, and people will be grateful that you've protected them, and we're all together, from the danger of immediate eviction. That's what you have to do, and then you have to say it. Please let's all do this together as a constitutional majority and show that we can really protect the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u118	Please, the national MP, Kaida, the head of the commission, the working group, is more loyal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u119	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, our faction insists that the Bill 4953 be voted on now and that a moratorium be imposed on the alienation of property. But what I want to point out is that this bill shows a figure -- no more than $250,000 worth of apartments to prevent those oligarchs who, after half a million dollars, took credit for 10 million dollars and are now going to cover up the people who are standing here poor, came from all over Ukraine. We demand a vote now, a vote in the agenda and a positive vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I beg you, Mikola Ivanovich, please take your seat. Colleagues! Colleagues, well, we don't have a discussion right now, do we? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! My colleagues, I ask you once again to sit in my workplace. We can do it this way. Colleagues, pay attention! Now I'm going to put the inclusion into the order of the day. Now, I'm going to ask you to immediately gather a committee of profile to consider this issue, because there are serious proposals that have come from the Freedom faction and from other deputies so that we can immediately prepare it and in the first general vote that we don't change. Fellows, I'm asking you again now, let's put this into the agenda and I'm going to have the task of quickly meeting with the Financial and Banking Committee, discussing this issue with the task force, and so that we can. When today means today, yes, tomorrow means tomorrow. And then we can make decisions by understanding what we're voting on. Colleagues, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! Because when we put the banking system in place with you, it's going to be even worse for all citizens, believe me. Calm down, please! Calm down. There'll be a discussion, I'll give you a chance to speak. Please, dear fellows! Please include Project 4953 in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[13:17:26]] For 259. Decision taken. The factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I'm back. Please take your seats! The profile committee will consider this issue and introduce it, we will not vote in favour of a law that has not been considered by the profile committee. Then you will be responsible with Rudzkowski for the banking system. Please, I say again, please consider the law on the committee, correct the shortcomings there, and please bring it to the hall. Please take your seats. Colleagues, I'm calling in factions. 27 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 63, 25 – Impact, Economic Development – 28, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, 35 – Freedom, 24 – non-fractional – 33. I'm giving a task to the profile committee right now to consider this matter, please, and to the task force. Kaidi, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u122	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I am also the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Today, at 2.30 p.m., the committee will be sitting, and I'm asking all the committee members to be at this meeting, and we're going to consider this bill today at 2.30 p.m., and after lunch, we can put it into the session room, I think, with positive conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u123	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, Deputy Miroshnichenko. Dear colleagues, we'll move on to the next question. I'll give you a chance, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Our group of non-fractional deputies voted in favour of the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, but I want to pay attention to both the committee of profile, and all the national MPs, and we're talking about wanting to help the people who took the currency loans. But we forgot about the people who deposited the currency. If the state in this bill does not provide for the exchange rate difference for Ukraine's budget, or for the state, and not for those banks, we will have a collapse of the banking system, your honorary colleagues! So I'm pointing out to the profile committee that we're going to vote in this case if there's a mechanism to compensate for the exchange rate difference, because it's the state's fault that he jumped the course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Thank you. We discussed this, please discuss it now at the meeting of the committee of profile and the working group led by the national deputy, Alexy Kyde. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the first reading. And now, dear colleagues, I've been approached by the members of the strike faction and they're asking the first to consider Project 4939 in the first reading. Let me remind you, this is a draft amendment to some of Ukraine's legislative acts to restore the effective functioning of the capital of Kiev. It's about the "Pazat" merger and parking, and some other questions. That's why I'm asking you, dear colleagues. There's no objection to looking at it first? There's no objection. Mikola Catherinechuk, please. Turn on the microphone. Is it on? Mikola Dmitrovich, you can talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u126	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Of course, it's a very important bill, and it needs to be supported. But I don't think we've made decisions about the working group consciously right now, according to the problem that we've been discussing with those problematic loans. I understand that there is a great desire to help people, but we also need to understand that we don't have to deal with "filky literates." What do you want to take now with regard to the moratorium? This will never be executed by any court, for the law of retroactive force does not exist. You're trying to solve a very simple decision, legally illiterate, very difficult problem. Therefore, the distinguished members of the working group and the profile committee, you did not hear Arsenius Petrovich. There can't be that now we're going to take some kind of regulation or law, and it's going to be distributed to everyone who's received currency loans. That's a deep problem, and that's why my Bill 1145, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u127	Thank you, Mikola Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you now to support the simplified procedure for first reading consideration. The whole block that we propose to consider in the first reading so that we can support the proposal to deal with all of these issues in a simplified way. Ladies and gentlemen, please make up your mind to vote. [[13:22:51]] For-182 Procedural decision. It's accepted, Your Honor, for the record. And please, National Deputy Karpuntsov Valeriy Vitaliyovich. Project No.4939.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! The bill proposes the following: To establish at the level of Ukraine’s laws the responsibility of the President of Ukraine to appoint the head of the KMDA solely the person elected by the city’s head. It is known that it is at the constitutional level, but the Capital Act has made changes that dissonate with the Constitution, and these changes need to be removed. The city of Kiev’s district administrations are to be dismantled and formed on the basis of their representation of the KMDA in the areas of Kiev, which, in subordination relations with the executive body, will provide public administration. And in the case of a Paradise, they're going to function as an executive body. We've been talking about decentralization of power for a long time, it's actually at Kiev level that we're taking real steps to test out this mechanism. And really, Kiev needs to have a full executive body and there's no need to replace local self-government. And it is also proposed to make some changes to the Code of Administrative Violations and a number of other legislative acts to ensure parking rules. You remember the discussion we had when we were in our seats. no place for the disabled, and places for the disabled need to be. When parked in wheelchairs; when parked on highways; when fire trucks cannot come; when unscheduled work is done on parking costs (which are colossal costs that do not reach local budgets). Basically, if it's a short shot, you don't waste your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues. It's from the profile committee. Wait, I don't see Andry Cosemykin, from the profile committee. So we'll do without a report. Dear colleagues! Please report to your workplace, and the distinguished national deputies are asked to sign up for the presentations. 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. Please, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! We had different options in Kiev when there was a reconciliation of the positions of Omelchenka, he seemed to be doing well. We had other options when Chernewsky's accommodations were bad and he was bad at work. We did when there was no complacency and there was a struggle, which was in charge. But in view of the new mayor’s arrival, he intends to make Kiev a European capital. We believe you, Mr. Vitalia. That's why the Economic Development Group has decided to support the proposal for job integration. We will vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u133	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u134	Andrew Mishchenko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The purpose of the bill is in principle faithful and the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association promotes the decentralization of power and the empowerment of local communities. The city head of Kiev needs to be given full administrative authority, including the administration of the Kiev City State Administration. However, the authors of the legislative initiative did not sufficiently combine legislation on the appointment of the president of the KMDA and the issue of fines for violations of the rules on parking. Moreover, on 29 May of this year, Parliament adopted Bill No. 2499 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on rules of parking for vehicles. Finally, the "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union believes that the bill should be finalized by dividing the legislative rules for the appointment of the head of the KMDA and the violation of the rules on parking of means of transport. We'll vote yes in the first reading. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u136	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. During such difficult times that Ukraine is experiencing, we must rid ourselves of political ambitions and unite in order to win the whole of Ukraine. We must show today that we are supporting the new head of the city, supporting the chosen national mayor and giving him the opportunity to work. And I think that this will show and demonstrate that the disunited people are being used by enemies and that the united people are winning. I call for a vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u137	National Deputy Kirilenko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u138	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. And when you're included in the order of the day, and now the observations that are in the fraction still remain. That's six pages of comparison, five and a half pages of parking -- evacuators, blockers, park service money and so on. And the rest of it is about reconciling positions and introducing a completely new institution for the President's representation in the areas. True, it's not the President's appointment, it's the city's head. All of this can take place only when a professional discussion takes place. So I want to say, in advance of the bitter attack of one MP, that our position is not directed against Vitali Klick or against any Kiev or national policy. Our position is to be the European capital. There has to be a city council, a committee of executives has to be voted on. And there must be a President's representative who controls compliance with the Constitution and legislation, not the restoration of authoritarian vertical. For where the authoritarian vertical, the example of Yanukovic shows, there is corruption, dissipation and flight from the country. Well, you don't have to do that again in Kiev. That's two. And the third. President-elect. Dusty, Klitschko is one team. Even if Parliament does not now vote on this law, I have no doubt that President-elect Poshenko will appoint Vitalia Klicka as head of the KMDA. And you don't have to build a city here in the Supreme Council. What's more, 80 crystal clear and honest now, clearly, MPs from Strike, especially in the majority office of the elected, will ensure that this political position is fully dominated in the capital. And we shouldn't go back to authoritarian mode in Kiev. We are supporters of the European governance system. So the next time we propose a 4,289 bill,
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u139	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u140	The Fatherland faction proposes a 4289 bill from the rehabilitation package, which clearly sets out not Asian, but European governance rules in the capital city of Kiev. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, one minute please, National Deputy Lazko and National Deputy Miroshnichenko. In one minute, let's sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u142	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In the elections that took place at the Kiev City Council on May 25th, the Radical Party, which I lead, took second place after the winners of the hit. But. And I thank the Chinese for their support. But at the same time, I would like to say that the election in Kiev is forging a city election commission, stealing votes. And not just in the Radical Party, but in other parties. And I would like to state as the leader of the Radical Party that our faction in the Kyiv City Council of the Radical Party will be in opposition to the Strike faction, because those people who went through the Majority of the Strike are the people of the former mayor of the Black Cosmos. At the same time, as far as the bill is concerned. It is absolutely certain that the mayor of the city of Klitschko, for whom most of the Chinese voted, should have full authority to implement the support of the Chinese. Therefore, the positions of head of the KMDA and the mayor of the city should be united. And I wish you success, Vitaly Volodymyrovich, as mayor of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u144	And we, Vitalia Volodymyrovich, will control you. We're the dog who won't let the pacifiers take a nap. He won't let the land stretch, he won't let the property stretch. We will return to the city's authority everything that was stolen to this Chernewsky. And hopefully you'll help us do that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u145	National MP Miroshnichenko, please, one minute, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to draw your attention to what's going on in this room. And we can refer to European principles, to European values. There are in Europe and those territorial communities where the elected head of executive power is elected, and there are territorial communities in Europe, where a separate representative of executive power is elected in the territorial community. But we, honourable colleagues, in this room dozens of times, especially from today’s majority, have heard that they will vote in favour of granting the city of Kiev the right to form executive power in Kiev. And I urge you to be responsible and honest about the voters of your country and not lie to them. So now to cover up European standards, I don't think it's fair. And our group of non-fractional deputies who are in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u148	which is in opposition to today's power, will vote in favour of this bill, because that's fair to our electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I'm asking the national deputies to take their seats and prepare for registration. Colleagues, let's vote. I say again, we have the opportunity to vote, and now you want to distract. Colleagues, I ask for support on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian legislation on the restoration of the effective functioning of the capital of Kyiv, Ukraine (4939). Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:35:14]] For 221 The decision is not taken. The factions. Region Party 19, Fatherland – 12, Impact – 36, 29 – European Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, 34 – Freedom, 24 – non-fractional – 40. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask, come on, we're talking on a basis. On the basis of the second reading, this project can be further developed. There were notes in the parking lots. You can get it out of this project. Yeah. Colleagues, can we come back from this question? Come on. I'm putting the vote back on that question. Please. [[13:36:02]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'll be ready, I'll be ready to return to that question. Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions – 19, 10 – Fatherland, 38 – Impact, 31 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, 33 – Freedom, 25, 37 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I ask you, before moving to the next question, I inform you that I have received a statement from Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, who informs you that on June 02, 2014, the Central Election Commission, at its meeting, published the results of the President's election, according to which he was elected as elected President of Ukraine. And in this regard, according to article 81, he makes a personal request to Parliament to appoint a national MP. Dear colleagues, there is no objection to our immediate support for this offer by Peter Alexiyovich? Please, Your Honor, let us support, in accordance with the Constitution, the suspension of the powers of the People's Deputies of Prashenko Peter Alexiyovich. Vote please, Your Honor. Please. [[13:37:28]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next project that needs to be discussed and accepted in the first reading. This is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts concerning the activity of the State Employment Service. Please invite me to the Parliamentary Chamber of Social Policy Minister Dennis Ludmila Leontiyevna. Let me remind you that we're dealing with a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u150	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Alexandre Valentinovich, on March 5, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine adopted a decree on certain matters of public administration in the field of employment, under which the process of liquidation of the central executive branch is now under way, the State Employment Service. Therefore, with a view to defining the status and order of the activities of the State Employment Service, you will see a bill drawn up by the government, the main provisions of which are the exclusion from the Ukrainian Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, which defines the status of the State Employment Service as the central authority of the executive branch. The State Employment Service, as the central executive body, has never begun its activities, and all functions are now being carried out by the employment centre system under the direction of the Minsk Police. The second is the restoration of the status of the State Employment Service as executive director of the Unemployment Social Insurance Fund. Thirdly, the legislative anchoring of the deployment of employees of the State Employment Service to civil servants by amending the current Employment Service Act. The existence in Ukraine of the State Employment Service, employees of government officials, is compulsory because Ukraine has joined. ILO 22nd and 88th conventions. To grant the government of the Social Insurance Fund the powers laid down in the framework of Ukraine’s legislation on compulsory government social insurance. And it's a very important question about removing gaps in legislation in determining the minimum amount of unemployment assistance for insured people. To date, legislation has not defined any body that would have the right to set such an amount of unemployment. So I ask you very much to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech. Let me remind you, two for and two for. Committee, please. While the recording is coming up, please prepare and step out on the committee's head of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, after the Supreme Council of Ukraine has decided to return to the previous Constitution, and the Cabinet of Ministers has accordingly repealed all the President's decrees, including the Decree establishing the State Employment Service, a paradoxical situation has arisen today. In fact, the State Employment Service is, and de jure isn't. So this bill is actually about that. And what I want to say today, as chairman of the committee, is that, despite the fact that we are scheduled to consider this bill tomorrow for a committee meeting, nevertheless, we have a positive conclusion on the subject, there is the opinion of the committee that there is a need for support. So, dear colleagues, today we have every reason to vote on this bill in the first reading. But, I emphasize, only in the first reading, because in the triangle: the state, the trade unions, the employer is a mass of questions that still need to be addressed. So on behalf of the committee, I urge you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the word is given to the People's Deputy of Yankiv, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u154	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u155	Please turn on Ruslan Zelik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u156	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, indeed, the committee has not considered this issue at its meeting, but our faction supports this bill, because indeed, the return to the situation that was in the employment service before January 1, 2013, will enable it to resolve these issues. And the main thing that we agree with is that if you return the Public Employment Service to the employment law enforcement function, it will contribute to the fact that the Unemployment Social Insurance Fund, which has also always been in deficit, will be able to fill its fund with a resource that we can use to help the unemployed. It's like this is the main point of this legislative initiative. Thank you. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Fries, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u159	Please turn on Paul Rosenck’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u160	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I cannot, of course, comment on the previous vote because the faction, one of the factions of the coalition, particularly the Fatherland, somehow changed its position after the election of the Kiev City Head and opposed the merger of the Pasat today, the Kiev City Head and the City Administration. Colleagues, you know, have to be able to play with dignity. Yes, Vitaly Klitschko won three of your candidates and separate and three taken together. Well, and running around the hall now and yelling, and putting "sticks in wheels" and yelling that let's not vote, well, that's low and soft. And you're not against Vitaly Klick, you're speaking out against the Chinese today, you've shown your will in the elections, and you've assigned Vitaly Klick to carry out your duties. And, of course, your position, unfortunately, looks insolent, but I think the Chinese have already appreciated it. And they'll appreciate it next time. Now, about this bill, about. In fact, we're correcting the mistakes of the previous government today when the authorities were trying to monopolize the State Employment Service, the state employment centers, to influence the formation of employment centres' budgets and to take personal control. Fortunately, this scheme was not implemented. And so today we obviously need to support and put a dot on the efforts of the previous authorities to destroy the employment system in Ukraine, to restore its productivity and to support today's new government in an effort to get control of this important one for all citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u161	The word is given to the people’s representative of Humil.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u162	Mikhailo Humil, 115 constituency, Fatherland faction. I want to call in again. turn to the hall and call on all deputies to support this government bill to restore the State Employment Service as such. Last year there was a certain legal coalition when the State Employment Service was declared as a central executive body, but unfortunately it was not working. That's why this bill practically establishes the status quo that was, and we're restoring. We're going back to the system of work of the centers of employment, as before. But in addition, I want to draw the attention of the Chamber of Deputies to the problem that is now established by the Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster in the Country, adopted a month ago. We've made changes to the distribution of the cost of payment of the only social contribution, and if we leave this quota and now where we took from 2.1 percent in favour of the Pension Fund, we're reducing the same amount of income from the social insurance fund in case of unemployment to 1 percent. If we do, there will be no unemployment payments since January 1st. So I want us to remind the committee that we've been looking at this issue and we've made the same recommendation decision to restore the quota rate for the single social contribution to the unemployment benefit fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. All spoke for supporting him as a basis, that is, in the first reading. And I'm asking you, colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please help the People's Deputy Miroshnichenko to sit in his place of work. We will now make an important decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor, support the project (registration number 4808) to amend certain legislative acts (for the activities of the State Employment Service). I think everyone is both opposition, and most of them are interested in the employment service in the country. Because unemployment is one of the main problems that we need to solve immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of your support for this project. [[13:48:19]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 2.56 – "Fatherland" – 26.25 – "Economic development", "Universal European Ukraine" – 24, "Freedom" – 34.25 – Company, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues. I'm asking you to make an announcement. I saw you come into the hall. Please, Hanna Mikolayevna, you wanted to vote for this law, I know. Please. Please invite your colleagues to the hall, because maybe the 1st vote isn't enough and unemployment is not enough. There will be no one to deal with this problem. Dear colleagues, please return to this question. I'm sure we have enough votes now. Please, Mr. Omelchenko, we have time to vote, an important question. [[13:49:16]] For 228 At the border. Until we split up, Alexander, let's not break up. Based on the base. Please vote. Please. Respectful colleagues, important questions, employment, the fight against unemployment, which may be more important. Please support this project as a basis. [[13:49:44]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question. Dear colleagues, we may be able to examine it, registration number 2202 of the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on fish, other aquatic living resources and food products, on the safety and quality of food. Colleagues, safety and quality of food, please, dear colleagues. Let me remind you, we're looking at a reduced procedure and I'm inviting the head of the APC Committee of Omelyanovich Denis Sergiyovich to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, there is no reporter, perhaps the law is of no interest. I'm taking it out of consideration at all. Dear colleagues, the next question, 3400, is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of protected areas. Please inform Lila Leonidna Kotelak of this important Law. And, dear fellows, I'm going to the MPs, really hungry, so you can't wait two hours to go to lunch. We're on our way. I ask you to return the deputies to the hall, the faction leaders, including. Look at the half-breed went to lunch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u164	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. As rapporteur for your review of the profile committee, the proposed draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of protected areas. The need to make the proposed changes was due to the fact that in May 2013 territorial bodies of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine were disbanded in line with administrative reform, but not all powers have been delegated to district, Kiev, city government administrations. In this regard, all efforts to improve the natural reserve fund have stopped. The bill provides for changes to Ukraine's laws on the environmental network of Ukraine, on hunting and hunting and the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, which improve the protection of natural-lawful territories. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, in its conclusion to the proposed bill, notes that there are no corruption factors in the bill. The draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill submitted has a direct impact on the budgetary indicators, increases the revenue of the State budget from the payment of fines for the offences noted, if detected, and depending on the sanctions applied. If a law is enacted, it can take effect according to legislation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a number of comments and suggests the results of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u165	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u166	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster believes that the adoption of the bill will create a legal basis for effective protection and expansion of the network and the area of natural reserve funds and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain legislative acts to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u167	Thank you, Lydia Leonidious. After such a convincing report, even poachers have voted in favor of the conservation territory. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the performance. Please, the Chechetov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u168	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! The purpose of the draft law is to transfer the mandate of the Natural Conservation Fund from the decommissioned territorial authorities of the Ukraine to the regional authorities of Kiev and Sevastopol. The adoption of the bill will provide a legal basis for effective protection and expansion of the network and the area of the natural reserve fund by the Kyiv and Sebastopol City Administrations. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give the word to Kaplin, the People's Deputy, the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u170	Honorable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, and distinguished Poles! I would like to take this opportunity to speak out of this high rostrum with the request and request of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs, to draw attention to the eerie and unprecedented incident that took place in the Poltava area of Kobilyan. In the middle of the day, Stecenko, the first deputy of the city’s head in the reserve zone with his supporters, friends, officials, city council deputies, although Poltava had a tremendous amount of work to do, despite the fact that presidential elections were at stake, and the entire country died in anticipation of the Kremlin’s terrorist attacks, allowed itself to hunt in the reserve zone. That's where their Jeep got stuck. They dropped their weapons there. And the local militias, the raiders, released this inhumane, this hater of the Poltava community and all the Ukrainians, from the scene of the crime. They killed these wild boars there. They left the spoils. The swamps ran from law - enforcement officials and ordinary Ukrainian citizens. And unfortunately, the police didn't hit the finger, the local police, to catch the bad guys. I demand an immediate investigation at the highest level so that no official in the territory of this country will raise his hand against the law, allow himself to be ashamed of the law, and that Stecenko be punished for the crimes he commits along with his corruption mayor of Mamaya, who was, in fact, acquitted by the Court of Appeal of Poltava after the Protocol on Corruption was drawn up against him. I declare war.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u171	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u172	I'm declaring war on the Poltav district justice mafia! With the heavy boot of illustration and democracy, we will tread upon the throat of this Mafia judge Janukovich! I will wipe out the courts of Poltava of all villains and corrupters, and no one will escape this responsibility! If the Law on Illustrations and the Will of the President and the Supreme Council are not enough, the will of the Poltava community and the deputy Kaplan will be enough to recharge the Polish courts! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are discussing issues related to the protection of protected areas. The word is given to the people’s representative of Jaborovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u174	So everyone came to life in the word that there would be another war in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Fatherland cannot vote in favour of this bill and explain why. There are many wicked and unjust things in it. If we take just the last few years, what we've lost in our so-called security zones now, how much everything is distributed to the right, to the left, starting with Sofia ours being protected by UNESCO and there's a health-care zone where nothing can be built, we can't do any construction work, it's still building on the street of Potter. What even went to the Shevchenkovy Reserve went up and built a helicopter on which no one had ever flown and never sat. Take a closer look at this Petrova Street and Park Avenue. You look at this toolbox that you built, moving all the groundwater that's been out there for thousands of years looking for exits and stuff like that. It can be called and called. From Ascania Newie, whose skin is tightened all the time. Because of this, even today, there is a fundamental defense that this is accepted at the highest level, the Kiev level, so to speak. At least that's where we have to get these permits. You can imagine, right now, knowing all of this in place. This will be crisscrossed, cut, and in the most sacred places will be built by horse factories, horse factories, houses, and so forth. We have no right to do this today. Under a kind of package, it's very democratic, in fact, it's very dangerous for Ukraine. And Fatherland won't vote for this bill. We need to work on it and improve it. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, please, it's been a month and a half since we voted to set up a committee of inquiry for Automidan, it's already.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u175	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u176	It's completely formed by all the factions. Sign today. Because this Automidan is about to go to our apartments. Please sign the decision to create this commission. It's complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we have discussed this. And now. I'm sorry, freedom has prevented us from speaking. Miroshnichenko, the National MP is handing over Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u178	Good afternoon, respectable company! Our brothers, Caplin, were right to say that some allow themselves in natural areas not only to destroy it but also to hunt it down, to restrict it, to circumcise it, including land plots. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very different approach to the natural-invention fund. And that's why Freedom is going to vote in favour of this bill because it gives you a chance to look at the natural-intelligence funds. During the last period, the possibility of developing these little pieces of land that contain very beautiful areas, both natural and fauna and flora has been virtually destroyed. And we do. And this is the law, yes, it has a lot of imperfections, but I think if we start with it now, we're going to improve and make it what it takes. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we can now come to terms with this issue and I ask you to sit in your workplace so that we can make a decision. Let me remind you, we've reviewed the project (registration number 3400). Draft Act on the implementation of certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of protected areas. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote on the adoption of this project as a basis. Please vote. [[2:02:48]] For 134 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 16, Fatherland – 5, Impact – 21, 14 – Economic Development, 23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 33 – Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, there's a break in the work of the Supreme Council until 4:00. Please don't be late for the evening session.
