ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I've been waiting for all the deputies to come in, and I can see they're not coming in and out. I ask the secretariat to announce once again in the Supreme Council's spheres that Parliament has started its meeting and we ask everyone to come into the room to make very important decisions, other decisions in Parliament are not being taken at this time. Dear colleagues, please, let's check the presence of national MPs. Turn on the "Race" system and we'll re-register. [[16:06:51]] There are 273 national deputies registered in the hall. We can work with you. Parliament is continuing its work. Dear colleagues, we need to be clear on the issues. Which we were unable to vote with you at the morning session. The primary concern is Law 4645. And I was informed that there was now a meeting of the profile committee during the break. And the law on the election of members of the local councils (about the election of city heads by the system of absolute majority of votes) is supported by a committee prepared by a committee for second reading and adoption as a whole. So I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to sign up for the factions right now. In one minute, let's talk about these questions, I'll hear the MPs' opinion. I'm also going to give a non-fractional opportunity to speak. Please sign up for the factions. Dear colleagues, from the Fatherland faction, Alexander Kugel, please. You could've made it out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to stress the direction of our Parliament's work, which I consider to be the most important. Catherine once asked Galicin, please tell me, what is the national idea of my people? And he said, "The welfare of your people, Mother." I want to address all the members of the Supreme Council, I want us to agree with you today that every bill that we're considering, whether it's political, whether it's economic, or whether it's philosophical, educational, they're touching and reflecting only one question -- the well-being of our people. I want to convey to you the appeal of our committee, the entire committee that we have set for ourselves on the committee, the word that we have given each other and the only task that we will work and adopt laws, to vote, no matter who and in which party. Only on one condition: if it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u4	improve the business climate. And so I'm asking everyone to join us and understand, if the population doesn't work tomorrow, we'll be doing anti-terrorism operations every day. We need to create jobs, we need to fight corruption. And then we won't have to force the army too much. I am addressing everyone, and please, Alexander Valentinovich, we have laws all worked under the dome for over a year. Let's work together the best economic laws that improve the environment that give employment, which will help our government get out of that crisis. There will be no government, no parliament without the understanding and support of the people. I'm talking to everyone, asking for support, and next week I'm going to do: corruption and business development. Then we can also help those in need of social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u5	Please, National Deputy Pisarenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u6	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we have such a proposal for procedure. We're talking again about supporting the bill on the duality of mayors, and the faction of the Party of Regions is going to vote for it. We have only such an offer that we will now, as we have spoken to you, move it to Tuesday morning, when the committee's decision will be made and everything will be ready to vote. In addition, we also said that by procedure we might now be able to give an assignment to the second reading to vote. To prepare for Tuesday a bill on parliamentary opposition and the first questions we would have voted on Tuesday morning. We talked to the experts, we still have time to adopt all these decisions on Tuesday, and that's not going to change the election situation of Mayor Kiev. They'll get to the point. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u7	Please, Alexander Mirny, the Freedom faction. Andrew Illenko gives his voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u8	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Today's events in Parliament, like yesterday's, and the other day, they seem to show some kind of very strange trend, very quickly one day in this room, they forgot what happened a month and a half ago. Once upon a time, many of the most vital bills for Ukraine today do not receive enough votes. Obviously, someone has played a very large part in the games, in the distribution of jobs, and in other things. Because it is now evident that part of this hall feels that it no longer depends on the forces behind this hall. And those failed votes that were today: both about two tours of the election of the city heads, and about this drug bill, they say that maybe we'll have to remind this room a little bit more quickly so that we can start voting sometime in sync. Maybe we'll have to appeal to the community, to Midan, to get some stimulation done. Because it feels like everyone's forgotten everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u9	Please, National Deputy Moshensky, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u10	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished deputies, my colleagues! I want to understand: right now for this statement, the threat was, what is it? We have come to work in Parliament, and everyone has a point of view that he has, and he deals with the interests of the county, with the interests of Ukraine. Where are the interests of Ukraine when there will be two rounds of elections in Kiev? Will it cost more? Yes, they will. Every time in the city of Kiev, before the elections, they change legislation. Maybe that's enough? Let the elections not be held under someone, but indeed under a measure, or a new name will always arise, starting with two, three, four, five tours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, I've seen three non-fractional speakers. Come on, People's Deputy Rudzkowski. In place, Rudzkowski. And we'll let all those who want to speak out so that our colleagues can reach out to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all today to adopt the anti-corruption laws that we have promised both the government and our citizens of Ukraine. The other one. I address the Head of the Supreme Council. Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to invite a representative of the Ministry of Finance and Nazbank tomorrow, and let them inform us about the policy course. 'Cause for today, it's a class of bracelets: 13 bucks a dollar. So with this approach, if every day the rate falls on the bracelet, we're going to have fuel at the end of this week at 18 bracelets. We already had milk up to 15 bucks a liter. We had potatoes, we had bread, we had fuel. All of this leads to a week’s rebellion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u13	Honorary colleagues who met with representatives of the government and the National Bank went to the United States last night to sign an agreement with the International Monetary Fund just to provide financial resources for stability, including our national currency. That's why they'll be next week. I hope they'll be able to speak on this. Tomorrow, it is suggested that the issue of energy security tariff policy be considered, which is what the government is ready to work on. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Before the break, the Supreme Council had not passed the Law on the Reduction of VAT on medicines. Millions of Ukrainian citizens who depend on the price of medicines that cannot afford to buy those drugs for their copier pensions and salaries should know that the Communist faction did not vote in favour of this law; the faction of the Party of the Regions did not vote in favour of this law. Nor did the so-called "Economic Development" group vote, which was trying to put the issue of lowering income tax into VAT. That's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to re-examine this bill and accept it. Because of the drop in the course, the price of medicine changes daily. We have first place in the world in cancer, TB, and we can't bring down VAT. In general, I believe that the VAT on medicines should be abolished. Whoever does this is the enemy of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u15	Please, National Deputy Opanasenko, one minute. 16617:53
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u16	National MP Opanaszenko Mikhailo, non-factional. I'd like to pay attention to what's still going on. East Ukraine. And it's a very difficult situation for all of our nations to calm people down, to save a single country, it's a major task that's now before the government and the parliament. We have practice when Parliament voted and under the walls were people indignant in Kiev. Then Parliament was able to hear them. I think we need to make an outgoing meeting of the Supreme Council in Donetsk and Lugansk so that we can hear under the conditions of parliament where the opinion of the people gathered will be held. And I'm sure we'll make decisions that will also calm the situation. Secondly, the main issue is now, in fact, the creation of jobs and the development of the economy. I would like to hear a plan of action of today’s government to create jobs separately in every field.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u17	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, I can see so much that we've, well, practically already, come on, let's see, we've taken over the performance limit. Colleagues, the position expressed by the people’s deputies, understood. To return to issues that we were unable to vote on. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to have a successful vote, not just to have the fifth time through the hall laws that are urgently needed by the countries. But those who are not supported by those or other representatives of the political forces. Hence, respectable colleagues regarding the two - class election. I'm addressing the hall, we can now go back to this issue and ad hoc vote to make the law that is prepared for the second reading, and the profiling committee has reported that it was prepared to consider now. Colleagues, can we vote ad hoc? We can. Let's try that. And then I ask all the national MPs to sit in their seats and vote ad hoc on the second reading of Project 1098 right now in the room. Please support this proposal. Please vote. [[16:20:40]] For-188. The solution. This proposal is not supported. The factions. Region Party - 1, 69 - Fatherland, 22 – Impact, 25 – Economic Development, 15 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 28 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 28 – non-fractional. I've got the position. We will return to this question on Tuesday when the hall will want to do so. Dear colleagues, now a very important question, it refers to lower prices, lower prices for medical supplies. You and I have not been able to pass a law in all of 4645, and the issue is critical. And if we don't take this decision by Parliament, on the one hand, we're going to have a sharp increase in the price of drugs, on the other hand, we might even have a deficit of individual groups of medicines. So I'd like to ask first the head of the profiling committee that reported the law, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk, is in the hall? Please inform us on this matter. We can go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u18	The honourable chairman, the honourable people's deputies, well, we're going back to that question again, and everyone in this room has already come to understand that we need the bill. But I'd like Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick as chairman of the committee, they've just had a meeting, they've informed more about it, and we've supported this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u19	Please, I ask the head of the Vitaly Hometics Committee to step out and inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, we have held meetings of the committee where we have considered these rules of the bill. In fact, when a bill was adopted to prevent a financial disaster, they did certain things because they were doing so in extremity. And the standards that were being spoken finally came out in a different way. What's happening with drugs is now a two-pronged interpretation of the same standards, which is 7 percent and a general agreement on what should be 7 percent for all medicines: both those produced in Ukraine and those imported. But there is now a legislature. And what happens is that what's imported is 20 percent and what's produced is 7 percent. That's why this collegiate bill is being amended. In addition, the committee proposed to withdraw one supply of drugs, which provides a premium rate for medicines used within clinical trials. So this could be anything. And the rate is going to be 20 percent by 7. Therefore, the committee suggests that we have discussed this issue with the Ministry of Finance, the Cabinet of Ministers, in connection with this paragraph in section 5 of Section 5 and delete the bill. The second issue of deposit taxation is also the legislature. By one law, this tax should be effective as of April 1, that is, 5 percent should be charged on deposits. Other standards of July 1 insert a progressive scale of 15-20-25 percent, depending on the level of income. So it's also suggested that this commission settle and lift this rule from April 1st, and everything taxed from July 1st to this scale. So there's no two-pronged interpretation of these rules. This is also a government proposal that is supported. As far as dividends are concerned, it is proposed that the bill, which we accepted, introduce this rule from July 1st. But given that this tax is paid once a year, the proposal is to postpone the date of the introduction of the tax from January 1st of the following year. This is also agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister. In connection with this chapter of the second bill, add a paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u21	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u22	Paragraph 2 of Section 4 of Paragraph 1 "Final positions" should be supplemented by the words "except for the rules set out in these paragraphs on dividend taxation", which take effect on 1 January 2015. The next position added by the committee was taken from another bill 4647, which was broken today, the standards applicable to VAT when imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of natural gas. Today, this benefit is distributed to all. This means that VAT is not paid either by the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine or by any of the operators that import gas. The next suggestion is to leave this benefit only to the NAC Naftogaz Ukrainian state-owned enterprise. Period. With this in mind, the suggestion is that section 6 of the first bill should be supplemented by this. Paragraph 197.22 of Article 197 reads as follows: "Freed from taxation of the import operation into the customs territory of Ukraine of the public shareholders company Naftogaz Ukrainiana by code according to UKTZED 27112000000." And the last question that was also addressed in Government Bill 4647 is that the excises, the increased excises that were proposed under the Anti-Final Disaster Prevention Bill of September 1st, speed up the withdrawal of these excises, from July 1st to July 1st. This initiative is also supported in order to fill the budget more quickly. The only thing on the committee was that, given the fact that horseback has a separate tax system, cognacs have been left behind since September 1. Everything else is agreed in this particular edition, in the same edition that was proposed. Therefore, there is a proposal to vote in favour of the committee’s decision in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u23	Everything remains in transport, everything that was in the first reading. The increase in excise duties on transport is also, there are also open lists of VAT, when VAT returns, to make it transparent and through the system that was offered through the Internet and other things -- everything remains, absolutely everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u24	Vitaly Yuriovich, I understand that the committee's proposal is to support you with your rights and 4645, and 4647, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u25	4646.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u26	4646. I see. Dear colleagues, I see, a few hands, a speech or a question? Come on. One minute at a time. Please, People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, please don't let the drugs go to waste - gas, transportation and so on and so forth. We have just stressed that if the excise on transport is not removed, the strike faction will not vote. Why is there a single drug-related bill that now solves a few questions about certain groups in this room? Please don't give the government bills in such a meaningful way next time, because the strike faction won't support it. If we don't get the excise on transport, we won't vote. And we call on all the national MPs to learn about the laws that are being passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u28	To the Prime Minister, please. Please, People's Deputy Dudka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 4645 contains many economic positions. But this bill contains one position, the price of which is literally life. Again, it's about VAT on medicines, and it's not about increasing the price of drugs that we're talking about today, but it's about the fact that the drugs from April 1, the drugs have been imported for nine days, and the imported raw materials for Ukrainian production are not coming to Ukraine. And we have no right to translate this question into another day. So I call upon all the national deputies present in this building today to vote for this law on the basis and in general. And another small trailer that applies to clinical trials. Here I'm talking to my colleague Homutinika, and I'm proposing a return to normal, and I'm sure the Cabinet of Ministers will support me, too, to return the 7 percent supplement to the added cost for the drugs that come in for the clinical trials. Because these are the latest drugs that come without.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to give more to Opanaschenko, one minute and the Prime Minister will comment on the committee's proposal, and we will make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u31	Dear Mr. Head, I must have had a request from the entire Chamber of Deputies for a very good practice when we heard the minister here on important issues. And if the question is about drugs, a very important question, you have to lower the price of drugs, but you have to reduce it on the part of those who import them, or at the expense of people. So I would like to hear the minister here if the question is really important. Second, a committee meeting. Well, there was no quorum, so it wasn't a decision, it was a committee discussion. Nevertheless, I would like the work of the committees to be restored, and I also ask you to set up this work and to have the ministers report on important issues for Ukraine. This is good practice, and it has some positive consequences. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, here is better than ministers, here is the Prime Minister who answers any questions about the Cabinet of Ministers' activities. I ask you, fellow Members, not to repeat questions that have already been deciphered here several times. In particular, it is not literally the price of drugs, but it is the price increase of the added value tax. When 20 percent today, the law proposes to reduce it to 7 percent. And this will certainly automatically reduce the total cost for the population that they have to pay for medical supplies. Dear colleagues in the transport business, we agreed that if we vote, we should make another appointment. Arseny Petrovich! Arseny Petrovich, can we comment before the vote, what are we now voting for? Arseny Petrovich, what format should I put to the vote? Taking into account the committee's proposals? Dear colleagues, I'm back. We passed, placed in the order of the day 4645, the law included in the agenda, discussed. Dear colleagues, Mr. Dudenkov, please, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u33	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished chairman, distinguished voters. I want to point out that our faction adheres to the fact that the proposed passive income tax model is, in principle, ineffective. Why? Because it only leads to an increase in fiscal burden. We support that proposal on dividend taxation, but it would certainly be better, and I think our factions would find more support if we offered to tax both dividends and interest on deposits, royalty, according to unified rates. Why? Because of the model proposed, it actually leads to the majority of the population to declare the income, which is the population burden. The proposed passive income tax model is ineffective, and we're going to stand up for the idea of unified rate taxation and bank performance of tax agents, which is not in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u34	Please, the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u35	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, when we looked at two projects on the Committee (4645) and (4646), the standard in the project 4646 is related to 4645. Oh, I'm sorry. The standard is introduced in 4646, which is related to 4645, the minimum amount of the tax liability and the payment of the import duty. In this way we predict that natural persons who will import goods whose customs value is less than a hundred euros, even if it is five euros, will be forced to pay ten euros into the budget. That's wrong, you and I just in a catastrophic law have reduced 300 euros to 150, and now we're going to be 10 from 5 euros. Therefore, I ask in 4646 to delete the changes to articles 4 and 374. And in Bill 4645, delete the changes to 197. These changes were supported by the committee and Minfin experts were confirmed to have minimal budget revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's deal with the law (4645), and then we'll talk about (4646) so that we don't make the confusion in the hall right now and the MPs understand clearly what they're voting for. I'm addressing the head of the profile committee. I understand that with the committee's amendments, yes, we can vote on the law. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, while the head of the committee is on his way, the national deputy Helevaeus has held his hand for a very long time. I also see the people's deputy Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u37	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I don't understand. Did the heroes of the Celestial 100 die for two months, and people start dying because they don't have drugs?Oh, my God! Do you not realize that there are medicines without which people cannot live a day?Oh, my God! And to this day their sweeping, their takeover into Ukraine has been suspended. I demand that the deputies return face-to-face to the people who fought in Maidan for another Ukraine. We "liberators," if you don't get this bill, 4645, passed Bill 4645-1, vote for it. It applies only to medicines and only to VAT for medicines. Because tomorrow people will go out. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u38	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, I address the entire hall. Colleagues, with correction, taking into account the committee's proposals, and what the Faction "BOCK" said, they say, can we put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u39	Please, Deputy Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u40	Finally. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. The chairman of the committee did not say everything, as we agreed. First of all, it was absolutely correct for the People's Chamber of Commerce to sell Oxana that you can't abuse those who send parcels and have to pay 10 euros in taxes from one euro. So what she has to do is remove the stenogram from 4645 as well. And the same, touching article in 46 is. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, the committee was not about delaying the introduction of the new dividend tax system for January 1st, but about eliminating all passive incomes. That's interesting. Those who have shares will not pay. And those who have a small account will get interest. And then run tax inspections next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u41	Dear colleagues! I beg of you, National Deputy Dudk. And we'll make decisions. Turn on the people's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u42	Thank you. I want to go back to the drug issue that comes to Ukraine for clinical trials. These are usually the latest, most high - quality drugs that come for the sick Ukrainians. And they come free, usually. So I propose that justice be restored and that there be a 7 percent added tax on these drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u43	I see. Dear colleagues, I understand that the committee supports the position on drugs. And the Prime Minister also supports it. I'm asking you, I'm talking to my esteemed colleagues at the Strike Party. Let's take our seats, now we're going to vote. Colleagues, well, each one's ripping out a fragment. Come on, we'll have nothing left of the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arseny Petrovich, what's the format of impact? Dear colleagues, it is very difficult to work in this mode. I am addressing the people's deputies who are standing next to the Prime Minister. I'm asking you to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u44	Nobody wants to pay their taxes. I'll convince them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, I ask the National MPs to take their seats. When there is a need for a break, we can take a five - minute break. But I'm asking you, colleagues, while we don't have to do this, let's sit in our seats. Allow the Prime Minister to concentrate and comment on the positions that we have just discussed here in this room. I ask you, Andrew Volodymyrovich, Sergey Anatoliyovich, also take Viktor Mikhailovich, and put him in the seats, please, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arsenius Petrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn the microphone on Arsenija Petrovich, and comment so that we can vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, first of all, with regard to the proposals of the strike party faction to lift excise duties on part of cars. Well, they already said we'd shoot it properly. That's why we agree with the strike proposal for you to vote. Now, with respect to other norms, I want to do it separately under the stenogram again. Of 20 percent, we reduce VAT by 7 percent for medical products and medical supplies. Let us leave the editorial that was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Next, with regard to other proposals, a discussion is under way on the introduction of VAT into gas imports. So I'm going to suggest that we postpone the introduction of VAT for one month on gas imports. If we see that it's going to affect energy security, then we're going to leave it. If we don't see it, we'll cancel it accordingly. Once again, there is now a rule on taxation of natural gas imports by all companies except NAC Naftogaz, Ukraine. We propose to postpone the introduction of this standard a month to see if we have import contracts for natural gas supply from other companies than NAC Naftogaz Ukraine at a price lower than can be purchased by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. If we have these contracts, then we'll cancel this rule. If there were no such contracts, she would have entered into force a month later. That's fair enough. Igor, that's fair enough. We'll take a month off, we'll see. There'll be contracts -- we'll come to Parliament ourselves and say, we're going to continue this rule. There won't be any contracts. Excuse me. Two months. There's an offer then. We have April today, until June 1st. You will be able to hold negotiations for exactly one and a half months. There will be negotiations, there will be cheaper gas, there will be no 20 percent, and there will be no NAC monopolistic supplier. Mr. Rudzkowski, it's not good to show with your hand. You have to show it that way. That's right. As far as I'm concerned, dear friends, once again, I want to emphasize that the standard of publication of tax compensation for the added value of all companies remains. After the adoption of this law, the tax service will publish in the daily schedule all companies receiving VAT compensation. And so this is going to be another step in the fight against corruption. Well, come on, dear friends, I don't agree, I'm just saying that I don't agree with the change in passive income taxes, I disagree. But I understand that you're in a tough position, and that you're not in a different voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, do you understand the position? I mean, taking into account the proposals that the committee has announced, taking into account the comments that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has clearly made now, I ask. I'm asking, your honor, according to your observation, Arsenija Petrovich, Oksana Prodan, to have a hit. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're starting to go to the Prime Minister again. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg of you, fellow members of the strike faction, let's not lose the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u48	Another proposal from Oksana Prodan is about minimum payment. Okay, Mrs. Oksano. All I'm asking is, "SHOOT," you can do more without offering. We're stopping now, okay? All right, let's do it, let's do it, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, with respect and suggestions from Oksana Prodan. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, distinguished national MPs, come on, we will never make a decision like this. All the suggestions that have been made, the committee is bugged. The Prime Minister supported it. I've been backing up the strike group's proposals. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and vote on this law. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Stop! What's the problem? Please head the faction of Alexander Efraemov's Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u50	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, you have a parallel bill, one bill, the right people have written -- only questions according to the cure. You're mixing drugs with gas now, you're putting a deposit tax there, and you want us to vote for it. Our faction will support the downsizing of drugs, and we are prepared to support the second bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, the point is that the Cabinet of Ministers' decision has offered a complex solution. and budgeting, including, the budget that today is going to break up, which is today unbalanced, it's a question of funding doctors, it's a question of funding teachers, it's a question of funding another area of budget, so let's vote in a package on this issue. We've discussed it dozens of times. Now I see "Freedom" again raising his hands for it. Come on, let's vote it off. Please, "Freedom." Please, Kaida, a national MP. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u52	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you as chairman to make a note now and to stop these deals that are now taking place in the hall, to stop this exchange, to put this bill to the vote. If it doesn't pass Bill 4645, put an alternate 4645-1 to the vote and all, but stop it, which only applies to drugs. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down in your workplace, turn your face to the cards that should now be voted on. I'm voting on the basis and on the whole Bill 4645 with the observations and changes that I've just announced. Please vote. [[16:51:50]] For 215 The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 75 – Fatherland, 29 – Impact, 28 – Economic Development, 21 – European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional – 30. Please, Prime Minister, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, dear friends, distinguished representatives of the coalition! The alternative bill does not solve dozens of problems that are largely solved. Starting with the publication of tax compensation information on the added value. We all stand for transparency, don't we? Are we all in favor of fighting corruption in damages to VAT? And we don't vote for the taxpayer to publish the compensation information on a day-to-day basis. So where is our sequence then, my road friends? [[Applause]] So please, look, please come back to the vote. The strike proposals are taken into account, so what were they? Next, the tax proposals for natural gas imports are included, on September 1. Next, proposals by other deputies are taken into account. Let's go back to the vote and vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u55	I'm addressing the committee head, Vitaly Juryovich, has taken into account the committee's proposals, what's the problem, why can't we mobilize the vote? I address everyone, my dear colleagues, it's a complex law. We can't rule out his individual positions. I now ask the National Deputies to sit in their places of employment. Let's stop walking around the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, to make a decision. Andry Volodymyrovich, let's take our seats. I'm asking you to support the proposal of the People's Deputy of Kydi. Let's stop the stock market. Let's stop the trade. Let's start working for the country. Colleagues, this is a complex law, and I'm asking you to support it. Please. Please return to the National Deputies for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Come on, we can't work again. Please. I've already given my word to my esteemed colleagues who give zero in the vote, zero. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take the word of Alexander Ephraim. Turn on the microphone for the national MP Voropeyevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! What's happening real, huh? VAT is proposed for gas, but not for all companies, but for individual companies. We said that we would vote this law in full, in general, but only VAT should be for all, without exception, or for no one. Please. If you don't like it, let's just ask one question: You don't have to lie to anyone, you don't have to trick anyone. We propose equal conditions for all, and we are willing to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, for one exception, this is NAC Naftogaz, a state company. Arsenius Petrovich, comment on this proposal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u58	The venerable Yuri Nikolaevich, there is one small problem. The problem is that NAC Naftegaz Ukraine has 85 billion grivens under external obligations, and I have not done so. There is a second problem that NAC 'Nahtegaza Ukraine's storage sites are in fact 7.2 billion cubic metres of gas, and there must be more than 20, and I did not steal that gas from the 'Nahtegaza'. That is why we need to allow a public company today to attach gas to ensure, including the industry you represent, that you do not pay VAT. If you have another solution, suggest. I don't see another solution today. That is why we propose that you postpone the introduction of VAT on gas for several months until 1 September. If importers bring a contract cheaper than NAC Petroleumgas Ukraine, it is not a matter of, we will extend the tax-free period. If they don't, we have to give separate privileges to the oil and gas company because we don't put gas on the other side. Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u59	Please turn on the microphone, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u60	Are you saying there's another offer? There's another suggestion. It is as follows: if you need time to deal with contracts and so on, please first deal with your contacts, and in a month, as you say, then enter this tax. No problem! They also agree. Agreed! [[B in m in s a l in]] If you need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u61	Yuri Mikolaiovich, you're a lawyer, an experienced lawyer, aren't you? You and I were first class students of logic. Logically, if we postpone the introduction of VAT on gas imports to show private companies that they have cheaper prices, we do it. We're doing it. The gas jam starts on July 1. Is it private or wrong? We provide a period for private companies until 1 September. Absolutely, no VAT. We're on our way. No, you do. So in all of this: taxes on the rich, we don't want to pay, we don't want to pay in excise taxes, we don't want to pay in the NPA, we don't want to pay in the gas. Then how are you going to keep the country?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, there was a clear offer. Colleagues, there was a clear proposal to defer this issue until September. By September 1st. That's a normal offer. You can also conclude agreements, you can demonstrate these possibilities, you can show the price that could be lower than the price of NAC Naftogaz. And then, of course, no one would deny that gas would be delivered at a lower cost. Who will take the stand against this? So, dear colleagues, I ask you to stop negotiating, discussing, and so on, and sit in your workplace. Please take your seat, Oleg Valeriyovich. And now come on, fellows, we'll be back with you to consider this. I'd like your support, Your Honor. It's a complex law. I emphasize that this is a complex law, and that's why we should not vote it in pieces, but vote it together. Please, colleagues, support the proposal and let's go back to that decision. People's deputies, please. Alexander Sergiyovich, please take a seat at your workplace and invite a colleague. Igor Mironovich, I ask the Council to vote, we must make a decision, by September of the month is a normal option. Colleagues, please vote back on this matter. Please put this question to the vote, turn on the "Race" system. Please vote, we all vote. [[16:59:59]] For 235 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues. Oleg Valeriyovich, we're going to vote now. Please, I always give you my word. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Please, colleagues, we are now voting for the basis and in general, colleagues, with all the rights we've been talking about. All proposals included, please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u63	We'll figure it out. [[17:00:35]] For 239. Decision taken. It's very difficult, my dear colleagues, to make decisions like that. Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u64	I voted in favour of this law, Mr. Alexander Valentinovich, because the Prime Minister says the budget should be filled. But I want to support my colleague, Voropeyev. You know, we have to be different from Yanukovich, who created separate conditions for his family, and for everyone else, because they weren't close. If we want to live in a democratic society, in a society where there will be a rule of law and a market economy, the rules should be the same for everyone. As soon as we make any exceptions, that's all, that's corruption, that's oligarchy. So the same rules for all, exclusion only for the disabled. And I supported my colleague Suškević that disabled people should have preferences, all other businesses should work the same way. Otherwise, it will be new oligarchs instead of old ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u65	Oleg Valeriyovich, distinguished colleagues, NAK Naftogaz, led by the previous regime to disability. That is why he is given the opportunity to work — to provide gas to the population of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have a package that requires the adoption of Law 4646 in order for the Law to work: a draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine. These are binding laws. The chairman of the committee spoke, said that they had already passed the law, and he had no comment. I would also like to take into account the proposal by Oksana Prodan, who stressed in her speech about the dispersion of citizens' goods of less than 150 euros. Is that what I'm saying? Isn't that right? Yes. Dear colleagues, the request, Arsenius Petrovich, is supported by 4646 votes, I understand? Don't sigh so hard, everybody's having a hard time. Colleagues, please take your seats. 4646 is a less problematic law, there is less contradiction. I hope you and I will see him now. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Arseny Petrovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikola Volodymyrovich knows how to vote. Arseny Petrovich, he knows how to vote. We're going to vote now. Dear colleagues, the request for a speech by the head of the committee of profile, taking into account the proposals of Oksana, sold to adopt Law 4646 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:04:01]] For 271 Decision taken. We can, if we like, honorary colleagues. Please turn on Andrew Cosemykin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I think today the coalition has come together more than ever and is ready to work on and put into order those bills that will also reinforce the fight against corruption and, by the way, this bill that has just been voted. I think Ukraine has seen, really, who wants, who can and who will vote. That's why Alexander Valentine's Day is a big request. The Fatherschina faction signed Bill 4607 and passed (82 National MP) a bill that allows every Ukrainian to fight corruption in Ukraine. That's the first one. And the other two bills (No4573, No4573-1) are bills for the creation of an anti-corruption bureau. The coalition is ready to vote, and today it is united under one of the anticorruption laws on tender purchases. Please set an order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. At the conclusion of our meeting, I will certainly place this in the order of the day. I fully support that. Dear colleagues, we have a third government law that has been discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm asking the representatives of the strike faction. Mr. Valeria! I'm talking to Packan, MP. Let's still calm down. Dear colleagues, Act No. 4644. What is the problem with this law? There were remarks to Law No.4644, especially regarding the fact that he had green tariffs. It's about the country's energy security, it's about energy-generating companies having accounts that are automatically accounted for. Which is how the calculation automatically takes place. I ask Nicholas Martinenko to brief you on a compromise that will allow you to adopt this law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, Law 4644 has two parts. One part that relates to the distribution of thermal energy calculations is the equivalent of how the energy supply works. Another part of green energy. We had a long discussion on the committee yesterday about how to make a decision that would be supported by members of all factions. And the decision that I'm about to make was made on a single committee. And the part about green energy, which was the most controversial part of the debate, we took it out of the 4644-d bill and we set up a working group. And next sessional week, we're going to give a working version. And now in Law 4644, it's just about a special method of calculation for thermal energy. What we need to do. Because we have a very big problem with gas calculations in the country today, it's the heat bill. We don't have problems with population, industry, or anything else. This is a very big problem, and it needs to be solved. The committee therefore proposes to adopt, as a whole, Bill 4644-d. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, once again, the chairman of the committee has informed us that this is only a technical issue in order to automatically disintegrate the funds that are paid for energy. And in fact, this will ensure that both our energy debt cuts and the normal functioning of our energy companies. All of them, regardless of the form of ownership, I emphasize. The next proposal, 4644, includes positions on the green tariff that raises the question and which should be considered separately. Law 4644d worked. It's what allows this issue to go around and only to address the problem of the effective functioning of energy companies in a timely way. So, dear colleagues, I'm talking to colleagues who are on the left side of the hall from me, let's have a little party meeting outside the parliament, let's stop, and now we'll sit down and work. Dear colleagues, please. I ask the people's deputies to include in the agenda a completed project of 4644, which was provided by the head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. 4644d is a work in progress. Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone. Dear colleagues, and I'm also asking you to keep your distance from the strike faction. We have many more questions to discuss and make a decision. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of the 4644d project into the agenda. Please vote. [[17:10:44]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 1 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 72, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 30, 27 – Sovereign Ukraine, Freedom – 31, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 19. I'm asking Victor Pinzenic to turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u70	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, you forgot there were two draft laws. There's a government project with no "d" to 4644. And the Impact faction supports the inclusion of a government project in our session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, once again, Victor Mikhailovich, I don't understand why we should interrupt the voting process now. Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting for the day-to-day inclusion of two projects -- 4644 and 4644d -- on inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:11:55]] For a hundred and Please (194. The decision is not taken), according to factions. 0 – Party of Regions, 72 – Fatherland, 17 – Impact – did not increase significantly, 26 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 19. Dear colleagues. Please, Alexander Mirny, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u72	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I'm looking at the results of the vote and I can't understand what's going on. These bills, which are put into the agenda, are primarily about improving the situation in enterprises in the eastern part of the country. And you know, I have such a deep suspicion that this is the non-voting of the Party of Regions, the non-voting of the Communists -- it's consciously and planned, the worse, the better. I remind you that we have criticized these bills, but the situation is that there is no alternative. So let's show you how you really fight for the rights of workers, not just in the rostrum. Well, you're not Lazko, who's in the presidential campaign, you're serious, so prove it by voting. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u73	Please, head of the Committee on Energy, Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I am specifically addressing the members of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, what we discussed with you on the Committee yesterday, you have all been supported by a position on an amended bill. What's the question? Keep rolling down the country, don't make calculations, don't pay for gas? This is your political position, the Party of Regions, and keep thinking about who holds the main energy resources in the country. Why won't you pay for them? I don't want to name it. Let's make a compromise, let's make a decision. And let's think about what the country should be and what the calculation should be. And let's answer for what you said yesterday at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, I'm calling the hall again, and I'm asking that we make a decision on this matter. I can take it off. It's my problem. But this is a question that the complex solves, including the country's energy security. I want to remind the honourable people that the situation in the country is very difficult, primarily economic. I want to remind you that the Russian Federation has doubled the price of gas. That we today have serious enough energy problems that we have inherited, that need to be solved. And when the government proposes a mechanism to solve these problems, the objective mechanism that applies to all, regardless of the form of ownership, regardless of the state’s, non - state enterprises. Please make a decision. Now we start talking again, but we don't vote. Please, the Prime Minister, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, once again with regard to the bill that is being tabled. We set up a special thermal calculation procedure. And I'm surprised by the Party of Regions, if your businesses in the East, you don't want us to be counted in a transparent manner for all services, well, don't vote then. We have a payment rate of 70 percent today, at best. Payments go into hoaxes, and then they go out in a wonderful way, and you can't find that payment. People were counting on the service, people were counting on the heat, but the money for the company that generates this heat or the money for the company that sells this gas is not coming. So your vote doesn't mean that you're interested in people paying for services, and those who generate those services didn't get the money, and the debt went on growing. We introduced this procedure into the electricity market about ten years ago, and that's why we increased the pay rate in this market by 90 percent. That's why we're addressing you, vote for this bill, which makes it possible to keep it clear and clear on the process of calculation in heat. The other one. I want to go under protocol here. We have a problem with the so-called green tariff. Sergey Petrovich, this concerns you, Kluev. There's a problem with the green tariff. Is there a problem or not Sergey Petrovich? Yes. And as a government, we insist that we review this green tariff. We realize that you have to pay off the loans you took, and that's why we're telling you, let's come to a discussion about what this green tariff should be. It can't be cloudy. Once a party of regions was doing so well under all the liberal conditions. If they're liberal, they're all equal. But he can't be the one who won't be able to repay the loan. You voted on the committee for that! Now you've gone and gone. If you're out of your way, believe me, the government won't be sitting, I'm telling you right now. I mean, please, we've compromised. We propose to vote for the introduction of a transparent system into the energy market. We're asking you to review the so-called "green tariff" and discuss with the government and make appropriate changes, not by this law, but by the following. But then let's have a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u77	Please, the microphone of the people's MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, for 10 years now, the lobby of those people who leased the heat utility, the businessmen who became millionaires and multimillionaires because they leased TECs, they don't want them to be transparent payment mechanisms. They're interested in keeping the system going when they get this money and decide for themselves how much to pay for energy, for gas. We have to break this trend today. This is the first time. Secondly, dear colleagues, I address it once and for all: we must put the practice of lobbying our financial interests at a time when the state is collapsing. Let's demonstrate that we're interested in stabilizing the energy situation. Place the vote again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u79	Thanks for the offer. Please turn on the microphone of the P.O.P.P.P.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u80	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The strike faction supports the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and fully supports what Arsenija Petrovich said. We now need to meet the conditions for Ukraine to receive another tranche from the IMF. And the green tariff settlement should take place for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. We propose to vote in favour of the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u81	Please include the National Deputy Kirilenka, Viacheslava, a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u82	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, and above all, the voters and the people who listen to us! Look, we don't have to convince the Party of Regions that they have to support the government bill. They are opposition, in this case, destructive opposition, because only if the trades succeed, they support government bills. But above all, we must mobilize our coalition potential. I think that if we, a coalition of worldviews and not some kind of commercial, we should all vote in favour of a government bill on the first reading. In the Chamber, the Prime Minister, practically, has been directly persuading MPs to vote all day on the basis of the world-viewed principles of these bills. So if any of the coalition MPs don't have a commercial in their heads, we need to vote on that law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u83	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u84	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klicka faction. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I'd like to give you some advice. Next time, when you come to present the government bills for the Party of Regions to vote for them, come along with the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u85	I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable colleagues, respectable colleagues, well, I see, well, everyone's practically spoken. It's a one-off offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I will give, ladies, Alexander Sergiyovich, calm down. I'll give you my word, yes. Please, Opanaschenko National Deputy. Insert a word. He's taking a very active position today, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u86	Dear Mr. Head and Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, if we're looking for decentralization, why are we giving the regulations to the National State Commission? Why don't we put it in places to regulate tariffs on the spot and people understand clearly why they have tariffs, they could ask questions there, in places? And we're dragging everything to the N.R.R.E. So that's why we're doing this? Maybe I didn't get it, I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, first of all, this is the Ukrainian Law, which regulates tariffs and according to Ukrainian legislation, a special commission for tariff regulation. When put in place, people can curse us because there will be dozens more tariffs than there should be. And this is a colossal problem. It seems to me that this is, well, understandable things and that's why an independent commission was created that takes into account the economic content of tariffs rather than their commercial composition. Dear colleagues, please, I beg you, we have a meeting of the strike faction, while Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov. He'll turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u88	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the faction of the Party of the Regions. You have 300 people in the coalition today. Therefore, do not look for those responsible for not being able to write normal laws in the faction of the Party of the Regions. Second. Today, there are a large number of political and economic analysts working in Ukraine, and we are also seeing them. And yesterday at a meeting, they told me that you've worked out a condition like that of young children: you don't know what laws you're writing or what it says. And that's their point of view, that's not our point of view. And third, last, why the Party of the Regions does not vote. You put 65 people in prison today and continue this trend! There's another representative out there telling us to put us all in jail. Plant half the country, and we'll see what you're up to!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, I'm the only one who has to comment. Ukrainian courts, which we haven't changed, by the way, which were formed by our predecessors, the Party of Regions, they work, I think you've always said, objectively. And people aren't planted because they were caught on the street. And the people who abused the police who stormed the administrative buildings that threw grenades at the employees of the force structures would certainly answer to the law. It's objective, it's right. And it seems to me that you're not right to talk about it. Think of your previous performances, at least two months ago. So, dear fellows, I'm asking the members of the strike faction to finish the re-smoking, the inner meeting. Dear colleagues, well, we have the opportunity to hold a meeting outside the Parliamentary Hall. Colleagues! Dear colleagues! Victor Mikhailovich, let's sit down and vote. Let's save the energy, dear colleagues. Please, while the strike faction sits down, Mikola Catherinechuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u90	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. I wanted to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine that he is actually showing today publicly how the positions of various political groups and factions are being formed, so that the whole country will see that there will be no return to the old, to the corrupt schemes in the field of energy. Society has changed, no one will steal from it, everything will be transparent. And it's this bill that makes it a system where it's impossible to steal, that time has run out. So be determined today. You don't want to vote today, okay. But another position in government, there will be no position in society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Dear colleagues from Strike, too, well, you're in some kind of tense state. Let's sit down, let's exhale, let's spread the arm right as we please, and now let's try to vote for inclusion in the agenda. At the suggestion of the strike faction, we now include two drafts of the law, they are indeed alternative, so we have to do it under the Rules: No.4644 and No.4644-d. Please, Your Honor, in order for us to make decisions, we should at least include legislative acts in the order of the day. Then the Supreme Council will determine which of them she will vote for. And now I ask all national deputies to support the proposal to include projects in the agenda of the day (registration number 4644 and 4644-d). Please, everyone. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing everyone, let's sit in their seats, please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Colleagues, we vote. [[17:28:21]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, 76 – Fatherland, 29 – Impact, 27 – Economic Development, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 31.0 – Company, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I don't know, I'm already running out of optimism on this issue, so. I understand you don't want to look at it. Please turn on the microphone, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u92	Dear National Deputies! There's no wish, no questions asked, there's been such a hot performance from the Party of Regions. By the way, performances are interesting. When Janukovic was in power, you spoke so well of him. When he left, you said something else about him. You know, you're still the same. So my next position is, if the law isn't adopted, I'm going to officially report to everyone that the Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund's decision to obtain the loan will not be taken. And so, dear regions, with your business. You know, all the same to the country, you don't care what happens to people's deposits, what they're going to do with wages, what they're going to do with businesses, you don't care. You're fine, you think. That is why you have a personal political responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, once again I turn to the hall, we can still look at the angle of responsibility for the country for accepting this question. I beg of you, dear colleagues, I repeat, we're even talking about getting into the agenda. In order of the day, dear colleagues. We don't even speak for the content of the law. And we sabotage that question. I'm talking to the leaders of coalition factions, MP groups. Please ensure that your deputies are available. Because we have an evening session always as optional, in paws. It's not optional, it's a responsibility to the country in the end. We'll have to work at night. Dear colleagues, please, Victor Mikhailovich. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please let's sit in our jobs. Dear colleagues, this is the package we need to stabilize the course. Because there's a lot of questions about destabilizing the course. And the National Bank's reserves have been cut by two and a half in recent years. There's no resource for Nazbank to stabilize the course when we don't make decisions when we don't have the resources to stabilize the course. Once again, I ask my respectable colleagues to take their seats. Colleagues, I'm asking the MPs from Liberty, let's sit in our jobs. Please, Andrew, sit down! I'm also asking for Fatherland, and I'm asking everyone to sit down on their jobs, please. Let's try to make a decision. Colleagues, Andrew Volodymyrovich, I don't work in kindergarten. Two of us sit in our jobs. Please, Your Honor, this does not require a vote on the return to the question, because it is about inclusion in the agenda. I would ask your colleagues to take a decision on the inclusion in the agenda of the two draft alternatives of 4644 and 4644. Anyone who supports Ukraine who is willing to defend it is welcome to vote. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:32:54]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting these projects in order. 4644 doesn't go through, we vote 4644d. Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed to the vote by adopting Bill 4644. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:33:33]] For 202 It's just a silence screen. Please give the factions. The decision is not taken. Region Party – 1.78- "Paternity", "PART" – 29.14 – "Economic Development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 24.31 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on acceptance as a basis and as a whole Project 4644d. I ask all the deputies to vote on this project. Please, Your Honor, 4644d. Please vote everyone in favour of this project. Let's vote. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:34:35]] For 225 I'm asking for factions. Region Party – 0.79 – Fatherland, 21 – Impact, 32 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, I beg you, with your votes, we can make that decision. Please, Your Honor, return to the matter. Please, dear fellows. Victor Mikhailovich, well then we'll talk on the phone, let's vote. Well, let's wait until Victor Mikhailovich talks on the phone, let's wait. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Please return to your consideration of the matter. I'll take care of it. Dear colleagues, I say again, please, I'm asking you very much, don't interrupt the process. I will give you my word after I have finished. After the decision has been completed. Dear colleagues, 4644d has won the most votes. Dear colleagues, please, Victor Mikhailovich, let's vote. I ask the Parliament to return to the matter of draft Law 4644. Ladies and gentlemen, please support me to return to this matter. Please vote. [[17:36:48]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to leave now. Dear colleagues, once again, it's impossible to work like this. Colleagues, please. Arsenius Petrovich, well, ask to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Arsenius Petrovich, please let the colleagues sit in their jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u94	In order for the strike party faction to vote that we will approve the order of allocation of funds by government. Yeah? All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u95	Can we vote with this proposal? Victor Mikhailovich? We can. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I beg of you now. Colleagues, please take your seats. I ask you to calm down and now vote on the basis of the bill as a whole (registration number 4644-d). Please vote, Your Honor, all and the Party of Regions, please also vote. On the basis and in general. [[17:38:33]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, it's very difficult to work like this. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 0, "Fatherland" is 80, "Klicka" is 27, "Economic development" is 30, "North European Ukraine" is 31, "Freedom" is 32, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 30. Dear colleagues, please, I don't see who's holding our hand without glasses? Please, the last word of the Prime Minister and I will give the National MP Paul the opportunity to speak. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u96	Alexander Valentinovich, our last word will be very, very long. Dear Members of Parliament, let me say thank you, on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, for the not simple but correct decisions you have made. [[Applause]] Also, if you don't mind me coming to see you next week, we need to adopt a package of laws on visa-free terms. Packages are in place, I'm willing to personally report that we go to stage two of the visa-free regime, that Ukrainians go to Europe without a visa, and that's how it's going to be with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u97	Arsenius Petrovich, we have inspiration and now, I feel this way in the hall, vote visa-free, yes or no, colleagues? You see, the mood is uplifting. Please, fellow believers, the national deputy Paul wants to make a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u98	Dear fellow MPs, distinguished Alexander Valentinovich! We have passed on the buttoning documents under the Rules on a number of occasions today. When you told the distinguished leader of the Party of the Regions, "Don't interfere with the process," you probably wanted to add "buttoning". We therefore insist that those documents registered under the Rules be reviewed and adopted immediately. As for the opening of the distribution accounts, we then went out in accordance with Regulation 1082. When people in utility heat plants lost their wages. So you don't have to speculate here about what's being done for the East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u99	Thank you for the constructive offer. Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider a very important issue (registration number 4556) this is the draft Act amending certain legislative acts in the field of State anti-corruption policy in connection with the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine. It seems to me that when we last vote on this issue, it will certainly be a very serious step in the direction and the fight against corruption, and most importantly in the direction of our country's visa-free regime with the European Union. This is what our citizens long dreamed of, and this will certainly be a very serious step towards European integration. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, we can now hear the question, and tomorrow, for example, we can vote. No objections? When we see the number of votes, the question is very important. Please. I'm asking you, for a reduced procedure, to support the consideration of this issue. Please, dear fellows. [[17:42:44]] For-174 Decision taken. Please, I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum of the First Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilian Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Now I want to report to you on a very important bill, which concerns the implementation of the Visa Liberalization Action Plan for Ukraine. You know, we've come a long way, a very hard way on the way from phase one to phase two. The first phase is the legislative phase. The second phase, the execution of the action plan, is implemented. There's only a few bills left to pass. One of them is the further improvement in anti-corruption legislation. What is the purpose of this bill? First of all, increased sanctions for individuals and legal persons for criminal corruption. as an alternative type of punishment, as well as deprivation of liberty. This will guarantee that Ukraine will be able to cooperate in implementing international legal treaties on the extradition of offenders. There is universal jurisdiction over crimes committed abroad, which, by the way, is also an obligation of Ukraine according to a convention that has not yet been implemented into national legislation. Bribery in the private sector is being criminalized. It is also envisaged to review the approach to the implementation of such an important and powerful anticorruption tool as financial control over the income and expenditure of public officials, and it has worked objectively and effectively. And this path suggests that aside from the internal control that exists today, external control of the authenticity and fullness of the information contained in the income declaration is also introduced. Another important component of the project is the strengthening of safeguards for the protection of those reporting corruption. In this regard, it is proposed to amend the Civil Procedure Code, namely its article 60, which guarantees that if.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u102	Thank you. Which guarantees that if such a person was illegally released from office because he had informed about corruption, that the proof of innocence was the answer. And I would like to say lastly that in my latest report on Ukraine, which was adopted on March 28, this year, a group of states against corruption GRECO positively appreciated these changes that are now being proposed for your consideration and called for their acceptance. So please support and accept this bill in the first reading. He'll get close to ours. Our citizens are about to receive visa-free treatment from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I request the head of the Committee on Combating the Crime and Corruption of Chumak Viktor Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this bill is the result of a combination of efforts made by a group of national deputies from various factions on projects (3522) and (3312). They have gathered all the standards that we need to implement today in order to obtain a visa-free regime on our journeys to the European Union. I'm going to be very brief, I'm just not going to repeat what the deputy minister of justice said. I'm going to talk about the novels that are in this bill. First, there is increased responsibility for corruption in the public sector. This responsibility, including the promise of bribes, is criminalized for the promise of unjust gain. Second, financial control of declarations of property, assets, and liabilities of officials of all levels is improving. In addition, for unreliable information provided by officials, a fine of between 150 and 500 minimum wages will be imposed. Untaxed minimums, I'm sorry. Third, the liability of legal persons for corruption in the amount of damage. If this damage is set up twice, if this damage is not fixed, then if you say it on a nominal scale, it's between 5,000 and 275,000 dollars, depending on the gravity of the crime. Fourth, there is responsibility for private sector corruption in the form of willlessness. It's still lower than the state, but it's set to two years' imprisonment. Authorities are obliged. Fifth, the authorities are obliged to create conditions for an anonymous report of corruption. But anonymous reports are only subject to consideration if the information they provide is specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u105	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u106	contains specific factual data that can be verified. Six. The protection of those reporting corruption is strengthened. Seven. The possibility of a special confiscation is extended to all preconceived crimes, that is, crimes with a minimum of 1 year imprisonment. This is necessary for Ukraine to carry out legal aid agreements in criminal offences, in order to transfer foreigners at the request of a foreign party. Next. The number of authorities responsible for the fight against corruption is decreasing. This list removes the military service of law enforcement and tax authorities. They are deprived of the right to draw up appropriate administrative protocols. And the last. Foreigners and stateless persons, even if they do not live in the territory of Ukraine, are liable for corruption if they are committed against or in association with Ukrainian officials. Undoubtedly, the draft law is so complex and counterversive enough for us to understand. But yesterday, the committee reviewed the draft law at its meeting and recommended that the Supreme Council adopt it as a basis for its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions. Thank you. Please, I see your hand, I'll also give you a chance to speak. People's MP Melnik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u108	Please pass the word to Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u109	Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! Indeed, we must now adopt a number of anti-corruption laws. This is what the Ukrainian people require of us. According to recent sociological polls, some 70 percent of Ukrainians voted in favour of the fight against corruption. And we have to adopt this law today. This bill could be divided into the following blocks. The first is the declaration of revenue and expenditure by public officials. The administrative responsibility for entering potentially false data into the declaration is entered. A mechanism is in place to respond to the deliberate introduction of false data by law enforcement and judicial authorities. Functions, inspections are still carried out by tax authorities before the creation of an anti-corruption body with appropriate guarantees of independence. The second is criminal law and criminalization of corruption. Anticipating the removal of the will for corruption; international legal aid in corruption cases; criminal responsibility for private sector corruption. The difference of responsibility in the private and public sectors for officials is more severe in sanctioning corruption. Legal persons are expected to be responsible when an authorized person for resisting corruption fails to perform his functions, leading to corruption. And in the end, the third is to prevent corruption in government bodies. The creation of organs, special departments, and the prevention of corruption, which are required to receive and verify reports of suspicion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u111	Anonymous messages. They should be specific: where, who, under what circumstances, to be checked. Please support these bills, as well as future bills on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as well as the law on illustration. Because you know, today's Supreme Council reminds me of the Supreme Council after the Orange Revolution. But in fact, the Celestial 100 did not die for the sale to be held in Parliament now, but died for Ukrainians to live with dignity and dignity. And we now voted in favour of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, the law on illustration and economic laws in Ukraine, so that the Ukrainian people would not come here to Parliament, because if it did come, you would almost be shown. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Catherinechuku faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u113	Mikola Catherinechuk The European Party of Ukraine, the Fatherland faction. The Fatherland faction will support this law, taking into account that it is completely in line with the decisions that the coalition and government are proposing today. If someone thinks that we're going to play this, you know, the game of "we fight corruption," that's not true. And this bill emphasizes that we will fight corruption with all our might by applying, including the population. I'm sure that the smog that's in today's corrupt component that's at the domestic level, at the level of government, affects the direction of family income and the position of people in the direction of their lives. So despite the fact that this is going to be a very difficult fight, we have to start and finish it. I remind you that this is the path that Moldova has taken. And today they already have visa-free status for their citizens in terms of crossing the border into the countries of the European Union. This requirement is not discriminatory, this requirement is normal, it is consistent with people’s desires. That's why the "Fatherland" faction urges the entire parliament to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u114	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u115	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, well, of course, there is a very important requirement for a visa-free regime for Ukrainians. But I want to pay attention to what is in the Supreme Council, the Scientific Expert Office, which has been very professionally conducted throughout the law, and has given such a general conclusion. I'll read it now. As a result of the first reading of the bill, it is appropriate that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to work on the subject’s comments and suggestions. So we're always in a hurry to hand out documents, then we're looking for, you know, a witch hunt. He doesn't want to. But we can properly redraft the law so that it is legally clean and beautiful. Therefore, there is a suggestion to send for rereading the first reading, as suggested by the Chief Legal Authority. And next week we'll take it to work, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u116	Thank you. People's MP Rosenko, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u117	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Our faction will support the bill, but I ask you to give it to Inna to the Divine One.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, I ask you to be careful with this bill. In the past, several attempts have been made to vote for him. What it does is unacceptable and why I firmly oppose accepting it in general, which means that it should be accepted in the first reading and aimed at refining. This bill completely changes the criminal responsibility system adopted in Ukraine. Ukrainian criminal law does not know the institution of criminal liability of legal persons at all. And you can't put this institution in such a sudden way. It's different. This bill actually introduces the possibility of anonymous cases being opened, and in fact even the applicant cannot be sought. Under a post-totalitarian tradition that we have not yet broken, under conditions that have not been modernized by the law enforcement system, we cannot under any circumstances allow today anti-criminal or anti-corruption investigations to be conducted on anonymous claims. So, of course, this law should be passed, but these are two basic suggestions that I ask you to consider in the second reading. Corrections will be made. So please adopt the law in the first reading and the second reading to change these approaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u119	Thank you. Please, Opanaschenka, national MP, ask for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u120	You know, it feels like whoever wrote this bill hates private business or didn't work or create businesses. Because it is not for our state to impose criminal liability on legal persons. It's different. Each enterprise will be obliged to create a business, a nonsensus, a service in the fight against corruption. Second of all, why are you going to private business? Which you have the right to control and tell what to do inside the business. Create conditions for them, make clear rules for work, and do not need to take and impose criminal responsibility, introduce concepts of private business corruption, and control their costs and costs. This is the survival of the Soviet Union. If we're going to a normal market relationship, we don't have to do that at the company. Because my colleague at Liberty, when he was on the floor, I feel so bad that he hates his own business, private business.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I ask the National MPs to support the proposal. I can see by the number of people in the room, we're not going to be able to make a positive decision today. I would like to point out that neither the committee nor the speakers have proposed voting on this project as a whole. There was an offer in the first reading. And surely we need to work out, including the questions raised by the national deputy, Inna Godoslovak. So, honourable colleagues, there's a suggestion that we take a risk right now, and then the next time during the session, we've already made a decision on the matter under discussion. Is there no objection? None. We are finishing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. Tomorrow we'll continue to work at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
