ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. I ask the Parliamentary Secretariat to ask our colleagues who work with voters in the classroom to come into the Parliamentary Hall and work on projects and laws, it is now very important. Dear colleagues, I would like, at the request of the deputies, to announce statements, many of them, by the way. Many interesting statements. As long as the MPs are being pulled up. It's different. I am informing Parliament that according to part three of the 60th article of the Rules and according to the application, National MP Alexander Mikhajlovich Volkov joins the Party of the Regions. But, on the other hand, I read, honourable colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Law, "The Supreme Council Rules declare its withdrawal from the Party of the Regions Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco. [[B in m in s a l in]] According to part three of article 60, the National Deputy Hirschfeld claims his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 60 of the Law on the Rules, the National Deputy of the Danube states that he will leave the Party of the Regions. He declares his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions by the national deputy of Gorin. He's making a statement about his exit from the Party of Regions. factions, I'm sorry, thank you for your help. From the faction of the Party of the Region, National Deputy Semenyuk. He declares his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions by the national deputy Fedorak. He claims his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fabricant. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, Hennady Hennadiovich, to calm down a bit. He declares his departure from the Party of the Regions by the Ukrainian National Deputy of the People's Republic of Polyakov. From the faction of the Party of the Regions. I think it's from the party, too. He declares his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shabotovic. He declares his withdrawal from the Party of the Regions by the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Joffe. And he declares his way out of the faction of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Nechayev. That's it for today. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't count. Count it. Dear colleagues, come on, this is a serious decision of our colleagues. We'll figure it out, Oleg Valeriyovich, we'll figure it out. My fellow Members, I do hope that faction leaders are working with MPs who are going to work in Parliament on very important legislative acts. And you and I are starting our consideration of draft Law No. 4526, the Amnesty Act in 2014. I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council by the author of this bill, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kožemyakina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I want to say that today, April 8th is, not least, a historic day for the Ukrainian people, for the Ukrainian society. Why? I'll explain. The fact is, in our country of Ukraine, there has been no amnesty for almost three years. The last Amnesty Law was adopted in 2011, and so the amnesty announcement has an urgent need. Many look forward to an act of mercy and forgiveness on the part of the State. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Amnesty Act in 2014 (number 4526), prepared and submitted by me to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine for the purpose of manifesting humanism, honourable colleagues, I call your attention once again to the humanism of the state in the field of criminal punishment. Because justice is the foundation of the state. The project defines the legal basis for the amnesty of persons from criminal punishment, the mechanism for the interaction of criminal enforcement with the authorities of the State and local authorities and consists of 17 articles. The basic criteria for applying amnesty, according to the project, are: the unknown social danger of action committed by a person serving a sentence; objective factors, that is, severe illness, old age; and, more importantly, that significantly reduce the danger of persons being released from punishment; and a significant time frame for the convicted person to be punished at the time of amnesty. The bill provides for amnesty to be declared and extended primarily to those who have committed crimes of minor gravity or are most vulnerable and socially vulnerable, namely: minors, women and men who have minors, children with disabilities, pregnant women, war veterans, the first, second and third groups, persons with tuberculosis or cancers, and so on. In addition, I point out that in the time elapsed since the adoption of the last Amnesty Act, amendments have also been made to the basic Amnesty Act in Ukraine and a new KPC has been adopted. This allows us with you, honourable national deputies, to apply amnesty to many persons who have been sentenced in the last three years for committing nonviolent crimes that have compensated for the damage they have suffered, usually to minor sentences and most of them have already done. This also applies to cases involving non-taxation when a person was unjustifiably accused of eliminating business competitors, i.e. they were actually victims of the previous regime. Moreover, since 2010, honourable colleagues have sent criminal authorities to play, as we have done today, examining on the committee, and with civil society, and with civil society, with legal support groups in Maidan, more than 20,000 Ukrainians for forged cases and illegal court decisions. They were drawn to criminal responsibility and convicted for an illegal purpose -- I'm paying attention to you -- the release of positions for, excuse me, "brothers" who came to Ukraine, as well as to Kiev and all other cities, in order to liberate these places, collect accounts, political persecution, takeover of business, takeover of private housing and so on. That's why people were behind bars. More than 20,000 people who were innocent and illegally convicted. These are government officials, medics, teachers, middle and small business representatives, simple peasants who couldn't protect themselves, who couldn't find money in bribes that they were required by law enforcement officials, prosecutors from the Attorney General's Office, investigators from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, investigators from the Ukrainian Security Service. At the same time, law enforcement authorities reported to the criminal authorities their "winning" (in paws) over crime in Ukraine at the expense of Ukrainians who are most vulnerable and socially vulnerable. May I remind you that so many people have come to these places to visit the people who came from one of the regions of our country to go to prison for what? For throwing drugs at them, for throwing bullets at them, for putting guns on them, for having been sprayed on the Internet by the media, all of this was used to violate criminal cases and criminal conduct. And these people were defenseless, unable to protect themselves, and they went to prison. Moreover, there are cases where an entire group, organized by a criminal group, is accused of being convicted. The case is being tried in a court of law. Out of 6 people, 4-5 are out, one person is out. Why? Her parents were unable to find the money to release her in order to give her the money the investigator demanded. And he's going to the colony for five years because he can't do it and because he's innocent. We did it this way. Those who stole millions, thousands of dollars, thousands of dollars, stayed free, and those who stole from the village, sorry, bucket of potatoes, went on for up to eight years. And this practice in Ukraine was everywhere under this criminal authority. You know why there weren't three years of amnesty? Why did they not want to do so, why did they not accept the act? Because they were afraid, they were all afraid, and the Attorney General of Ukraine, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Bureau, and the court, and the judge, who will be the time when information about their legal actions will become public. You've all seen very well, dear colleagues, and those who are standing next to me now and talking. I'm sure everyone saw on TV as Mr. Pshonka and Klimenko escaped from the Ukrainian fair trial, when they broke through the border and collapsed the frame, and, sorry to lose, you know, their honor and dignity, and, you know, as they say, animal fear moved them across this border. Because they feared, they feared that this act of amnesty would be. What is an act of amnesty? An amnesty act is a fight against corruption. Because under this law, under the Amnesty Act, all decisions will be made by judges. It hangs, see, 4378-1 is an immediate illustration of the judges. Take it, make it, and the judges will make the right decisions for those who have been convicted illegally. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the committee considered the matter. A single decision has been made to adopt this bill as a basis. Personally, I'd like to ask the hall. In connection with the commission of society, public organizations, people, parents, mothers, and Maidan. I, Alexander Valentinovich, ask this bill to be accepted as a basis and in general in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u3	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. The committee's decision as Head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u4	The committee's decision was unanimous. The bill is to be adopted as a whole, on the basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u5	Thank you. There's a question for the Head. Speeches or Questions? Come on. Andry Anatolyovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Turn on the "Race" system. Please sign up. Please, it's Paul Rosenko. Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u6	Turn on the microphone, please, Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u7	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear colleagues, I want to say that we need to support this bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption comes up with a lot of appeals. If you analyze them, I mean, about a third of these references apply to illegal citizens. This is a very large number of citizens or groups of citizens today who have been illegally convicted, who have been falsified with evidence of their crimes that have been fabricated. This is the number of citizens who, in principle, demanded this authority only one -- to consider their cases fairly. Sadly, though, this justice was never achieved in the courts. I think it is now our duty with you to consider this draft law, both in the first reading and in general, and to support it so that the vast number of citizens who are illegally serving sentences who have not been able to achieve justice for three years from the State are released today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u8	Please, from the faction "North European Ukraine" Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u9	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! What is amnesty? Amnesty is an act of humanity and an act of humanity by the state to its citizens. If this is the case, it is desirable that the relevant laws, amnesty laws, be submitted by the President of Ukraine, a senior official. But I think that in today’s situation, the fact that the head of the profile committee, Mr. Cosemiakin, has taken the legislative initiative is just to welcome, approve and agree, except for some things. Except for some things. Dear colleagues, the Constitution contains rules of direct action in accordance with article 8, which states that it is the norm of the Constitution of Direct Action. It's in the Constitution. Gennady Hennadiovich, I'll ask you if there are any problems, then you'll give them up. Article 24 of the Constitution provides for equality before the law. Why do I say that? Because, look, if we're looking at convicts for an article or an article convicted in February 2010 and January 2010, if we're going to adopt this bill, the one who sat behind this article more will continue to sit. Yes, of course it is. Because it says here that it is only about those convicted between February 2010 and February 2014. You mean that in February 2010, this judicial system was disgraced. We are well aware that not only were judicial errors but there was a legal disorder until February 2010. I also urge once again from the title group "Supreme European Ukraine" I ask the author of the legislative initiative to be able to vote, as you have proposed, and on the basis, and in general today, to come out of the fact that we cannot violate Constitution No. 24. That's why I'm proposing, not just from ourselves, but from our group, that these parameters be removed from February 2010, and I'm asking the head of the protocol committee to say it, and then it's the right thing to do. Because once again I want to say that the person condemned in 2007 will remain in prison, and the person sentenced in 2011 or 2012 will be released. That's not right, that's not fair. So I suggest, Your Honor, that you cancel this chronological norm or these dates. And then you can vote today in general, because it's the right bill, it's an act of state humanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, from the Freedom faction, National Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u11	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Mishchenko Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u12	Please turn on Andrew Mishchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u13	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Amnesty Institute of the Constitution of Ukraine is an integral part of Ukrainian criminal policy. In the last three years, however, Yanukovich’s regime had blocked the amnesty, but the prisons were filled with new political prisoners. As an act of humanism and humanity, amnesty allows the State to dismantle places of deprivation of liberty while reducing the budgetary costs of maintaining persons. Moreover, such actions are of a disciplining nature, encouraging prisoners to behave in a disciplined manner. The bill provides for amnesty to be declared and extended to the most socially vulnerable categories of convicts: disabled persons, elderly persons, minors, pregnant women. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, from Economic Development, National MP Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u15	Please give the floor to Deputy Zurawski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u16	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, there was no amnesty in Ukraine for three years. At that time, when she was in prison every year, up to five thousand convicts were released. What will this law give? The adoption of this law will enable people to gain the will of between 23 and 25,000 people. I think this is a meeting of the Supreme Council, these people who are illegally convicted, who have not committed serious, particularly serious crimes, listen carefully and will carefully monitor who is responsible for their will and who is against their will. Now it's specific. This law provides for the release from punishment of convicted persons for deliberate crimes that are not serious or particularly serious, who are they? These are underage, pregnant women, disabled I, II, and III groups. They're pensioners, they're war veterans, they're war fighters, they're war invalids, they're war veterans, they're war invalids, they're part of the war, they're covered by the War Status Act, they're guaranteed social protection. Participants in the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident and suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and those who reached the age of 70 or who were recognized as disabled by Group I. This law has been duly written, strictly prescribed, in accordance with the Amnesty Law. This has been highlighted by the members of our committee of profile, the Committee on Law Enforcement, which has been drawn to the attention of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's a bill on time. And so our group, Economic Development, will support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u18	Thank you. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u19	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherskina Party, Troještina District. Dear colleagues, first. Mr. Head, we agreed, unfortunately, that it was forgotten that you would call each morning, or the chairman would call anyone absent from the session, we forgot about it. Today, it would be appropriate for voters to know why we have a semiempty hall today. This is at a time when the state is experiencing an incredibly difficult period, surrounded by Russian forces on every side, economic problems. You look at this Parliament you want to call?Oh, my God! And someone else is offended by what Julia called our Parliament a viper! She was right to call him that, and no other! First. I am convinced that if this bill is found, if there is a vote, once again, if there is a vote, the Supreme Council will vote. It's really, we know what fatal, deliberate, very often errors the Ukrainian legal system has made, and I'm not supporting the method as it was done, but I'm very glad that yesterday the Maydan activists did not allow the judges to conduct this trial with which they wanted to elect four more judges of the Constitutional Court and cancel the election, and leave Ukraine in this suspended state. The Law of Cosmetics actually made it all up. And those who have served half the term and those who have the parents of the elders that they need, let's say, to please and support, and young children have thought out the whole humanitarian aspect of this bill. That's why we're going to vote for him, Fatherland, and I'm sure everyone will vote for him. Another thing I would like to point out, even if there was not this humanistic aspect in this law, is that we should vote for it, society, because we need at least a little jail time, because what a complement! Now look, they're waiting literally for him from Pshonka, from Yanukovich, yesterday still the leader of the party. But if I were the regionals, I'd all come out of the party. How can you be in a party led by the person who escaped, literally, from this? From Ukraine. I'm sure they'll find him, and they'll find him, and there'll be a third walk of him. I don't doubt that. As a result, of course, this law, once again, must be voted on, for it is indeed necessary to release prisons for new candidates to land. There's a lot of them, you know. Almost all of them fled today. As a result, we support this bill, and I want to thank Andrea Cosemiakin for preparing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire for non-fractionals to address this issue? There is no desire to speak. Dear colleagues, I ask the Secretariat to urge all deputies to come into the hall, prepare for the vote now. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, please, on the rostrum. It's a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I support Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, who said, in fact, that there is someone to fill the prisons today. You see what is happening today in Lugansk and Donetsk and in Kharkiv, and there are people who are worthy to be there to hide and perhaps then to serve Ukraine. As for my colleague Zarubinsky's speech, Alexander Valentinovich, I think that we can change article 2 and after the words "convicted," we clean up the text "from February 2010 to February 2014", this phrase is cleaned up by the text as it goes. Alexander Valentinovich, once again, we're cleaning up what Mr. Zarubinsky asked for. Please repeat article 2 after the fifth word. in the sixth paragraph, "convicted between February 2010 and February 2014 for any crimes." And still in the text, we're cleaning up that phrase. I mean, "convicted of any crime" and still in the text. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the proposal was understood by both the author of the law and the chairman of the committee. The proposal is supported by the Zarubinsky National Deputy so that there is no time limit on the application of amnesty. The question was, who's missing? I'm informing you that the complete faction of communists and the faction of "regions" are missing, only two people have introduced their cards into the Council system. Dear colleagues, I am addressing all those present in the hall, we have, unfortunately, very few deputies now worthy of my work, of our duties. And I'm asking everyone to sit in their jobs when all MPs don't vote, there's virtually no chance of adopting the Amnesty Act, and that's actually going to be a huge negative for all the political forces that fail to make this decision. So, dear fellows, I am once again addressing all the national MPs, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I ask all factions, this is not a political issue, this question is humane in relation to our citizens who are in prison. I ask your honourable colleagues to prepare for the vote. Please activate the "Council" system and make a responsible and important decision. It was suggested that this law should be voted on as a whole. Please, Your Honor, vote, everyone, vote. In view of the amendments, I said so. [[16:34:08]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions, please. The faction of the Party of Regions is 4, Fatherland is 79, Impact 27, Economic Development is 27, Sovereign European Ukraine is 27, Freedom is 31, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 37. Dear colleagues, there is a appeal from the committee. I see hands, I hope we're talking about the same topic. In the morning, very many Ukrainian citizens came to Kiev and asked for the full support of Bill 4238. Now, from the committee, the committee head gave me an official letter offering attention! – invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill in the second reading in the edition of the first reading, i.e. no change. No objection, dear colleagues? There's no objection. Can we vote? We can. I ask all the MPs to prepare themselves for the vote and to support Bill 4238 as a whole, in the second reading and in general. I'm deciphering the title of this law: "To make changes to the Tax Code (to make a difference between the utilization assembly and the excise on transportation equipment)" (4238). This is what many Ukrainian citizens expect. Please support the law in the second reading and in general and jointly support thousands of citizens of our country. Please vote. [[16:36:01]] For 227 Decision taken. I ask the author of the law to go to our citizens and inform them of his acceptance. Not all of them, not all of them! You see, we don't work the boundaries. But we work confidently. By factions, please show me. Region Party 2, Parenthood 77, Impact 28, Economic Development 24, Sovereign European Ukraine 28, Freedom 31, the Company 0 and non-fractional 37. Dear colleagues, we continue to work in our order of the day. The only one is the appeal. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, on the rostrum. Dear colleagues, a very important question. You remember that the Supreme Council has made a strategic decision, a decision that relates to the preparation of changes to the Constitution. And since the Supreme Council has severely restricted the term of office of a temporary special constitutional commission, the commission, unfortunately, is not in time to issue a draft law. We had a meeting with all the factions. The commission was sitting, and the chairman of the commission made proposals and requests, and asked the Supreme Council to postpone the deadline for the preparation of the document for one month. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, brief the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u23	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Since this is the consensus decision of all members of the parliamentary groups and factions, we ask that we support this decision, given that we are continuing to make some deadlines for making an appropriate proposal to the commission from the legislative initiative entities, and there are many such proposals, they are constantly coming, and we have decided to set up a 15th April deadline so that everyone can exercise their constitutional right. At the same time, we need, including the works of our text, to keep in constant contact with the Venice Commission, as required by Ukraine's international legal commitment after joining the Council of Europe. So we need an extra beam of time so that we can properly prepare the changes that the commission is making. Since this is a consensus decision, I would ask the session room to support the proposal in the same way by consensus, because it is purely technical, there is no policy here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, before asking for a vote, I inform you that National Deputy Saldo is asking him to count his vote for Bill 4238 for technical reasons. I'm addressing the people's deputies. Did you understand the offer of a temporary special commission preparing changes to the Constitution of Ukraine? Got it. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a month to continue the report. Colleagues, we can continue for a while, but they won't be able to prepare. These are objective circumstances. You see, the Constitution can't be prepared in a hurry. With success, we cannot artificially force them to give us raw proposals. Because then we're actually going to break the constitutional process. One non-vote and during this session we cannot go back to this issue. So, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal of a temporary special commission that prepares changes to the Ukrainian Constitution. This is Bill 4627 of Amendments to the Supreme Council Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission for the Drafting of a Bill on Amendments to the Constitution concerning the deadlines for preparation and reporting. Please, Your Honor, support as a whole. [[16:40:23]] For 214 Unfortunately, the offer is not supported. The factions, please. Region Party - 0.81 – Fatherland, 25 – Impact, Economic Development - 29.25 – Sovereign Ukraine, 29 – Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 25. Dear colleagues, I take it there is no technical decision? For technical reasons. I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, we can't artificially accelerate this process. Among the members of the commission are representatives of all MP factions. It's a joint decision, a joint decision. Dear colleagues, I am asking all MP factions to fully support this proposal and continue the term of office of a temporary special commission. Once again, I ask you to confirm this motion by voting by adopting the draft ruling as a basis and as a whole. Come back? Come on, let's work on the Rules. I ask the Supreme Council to support the proposal to return to this issue, please vote. Please vote. [[16:41:41]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I understand what's simple. Let's see the factions. I can't force you to vote, dear colleagues. This is a responsible, serious decision. The Regional Party is 0.80 – Fatherland, Impact – 27.27 – Economic Development, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine (the three factions work in sync), Freedom – 20.0 – Company, 6 – non-fractional. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is how it's done. Submitted by virtually every political power presented in Parliament, its proposals for changes to the Constitution. Individual national deputies, members of the commission, have also made proposals. For the time being, proposals are being made from another faction that is in Parliament today. In order to digest all of this, it would take some time for decisions to be made that would take 300 votes. In addition, we use the works of the Constitutional Assembly, where specialists, lawyers, constitutionalists worked. So without continuing with the work of this commission, we're basically breaking down the whole process of preparing and implementing the changes to the Constitution, which is what everyone said was going to happen. So, Reverend Alexander Valentine's Day, I think there are enough people here physically. If not, we have to vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, I propose experiments on the Supreme Council not to do, and tomorrow I will return to that question. I, by the way, offered this to his commission right away. He did not heed the wise counsel. Dear colleagues, please, we now have a poster, you see, hanging in the hall. People are asked to support the draft Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judicial System. Can we vote him in the second reading? Dear colleagues, I ask the head of the Subcommittee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Germany, Leonid Alexandrovich, to report on draft Law 4378-1 in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, welcome! If you don't mind, a few words. In general, Ukraine had never had a perfect judicial system, but what had been created in the last two years by the name of Ukraine was absolute lawlessness, which used judicial authority solely as a punishment instrument for the Yanukovic regime. It is because for many years society has demanded a fundamental change in the principles of the formation of the judiciary and, accordingly, ensuring the independence of judges to take decisions, that a bill to restore confidence in the judiciary has been proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council. On the first reading, we've already discussed it, we've taken it as a basis, and we've prepared a proposal to shorten it, with a reduced procedure over the week, to prepare and go through all the revisions. That's what happened. 192 amendments were considered at the Committee on the Rule of Law yesterday. And the Supreme Council Committee on Rule of Law was determined to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and, in general, as a law of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority in Ukraine (No. 4378-1). I get it, now we have to follow through on all these amendments. Or maybe we can move away from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, let's now consult with the National Deputies and make a decision: either we vote in the committee's editorial, or there are MPs who insist on their amendments, which are rejected and we can put to a vote to support these rights. It's a proposal to vote on the committee, I understand? Are you insisting on repairs? Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy of Montenegro. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u29	I ask you to put to the vote Amendment 133, according to which I propose that the head of the local court, as well as his deputies and the heads of the Court of Appeal, be elected not for one year but for three years. In line with the recommendations made by the European Council of the Venice Commission experts, this will ensure more stable judicial work and will not lead to very rapid rotation, as one year will not allow them to fully enter the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u30	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u31	Mrs. Natalie, first of all, let's be correct about the recommendations that the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission have given us. There is no harsh remark that we have to move on to a term greater than one year. There, they think, would be appropriate. Yesterday, on the committee, we talked about this and we took a position to leave it the way it was accepted in the first reading, namely, one year as one of the elements that would ensure the independence of a private judge from the administration of a court that would be elected by secret ballot for one year. And this, according to the committee, is an absolutely democratic procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u32	Agaphonov’s national deputy insists on confirming this amendment? He insists. Correction number once again
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u33	133.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u34	133. Dear colleagues, I'll bet you a number. Dear colleagues, please have some technical comments on this amendment. Please turn on the microphone, Sergio Vlasenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u35	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. This is not about confirming this amendment; it is about voting for an amendment that was rejected by the committee. It's a little bit of a different procedure. So I would like to put, as Mrs. Agafone asks, this amendment to the vote, not to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u36	So the amendment that was rejected is 133 amendment, for confirmation? That's when I said confirmation. To vote on Amendment 133, the proposal was understood, of course. Now. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of amendment 133, which has been rejected by the committee. Please, with this amendment, please include the "Council" system and decide for Parliament. [[16:49:42]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, who else insists on reform? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u37	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, as a faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, we have made many amendments. To improve the situation in the country. But. Alexander Valentinovich, if I don't have enough time, just add, we won't take the floor anymore. Here's the situation. All the amendments that we have made have been recognized by the committee as correct and appropriate. But given the point of view of the committee that has the right to exist, the fact that these amendments have to be made by the Venice Commission, we agree. I don't want these amendments. Don't put them on the vote right now. But we will submit them to a separate law. Because even the first part says, "Restoration of the rule of law and justice, as well as the mechanism for rehabilitating and restoring the rights of illegally convicted persons."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u39	Which is not in this bill. So we're going to make it a separate law and we're going to try it out. Ask the Hall to support a separate law after the Venice Commission's conclusions, our proposals from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u40	I see. Dear colleagues, I ask you to turn on the microphone of the People's Chamber of Peacekeepers. He will continue the talk of the People’s Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u41	The honourable national MPs, indeed, Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, and Alexander Mirny, my brothers, have made amendments that actually relate to a slightly broader concept of rehabilitation of illegally convicted persons. This is about people who have already been sentenced. They're not playgrounds, they're ordinary people, Ukrainians who've been sitting for 2-3-5 years. And they think the defendants are illegal. These are the people who were condemned by the authorities because they had their positions, the people who were convicted of being in the wrong place, not at the time. What did we propose with our amendments? Make another commission out of the 15 judges who will look into it. Not the deputies to whom hundreds of citizens today, namely the professional judges, are going to look at the material of the case, study, analyze it. And if they see the falsifications of these court decisions, if they see the white threaded cases, they're going to make decisions that are the basis for the trial. It's very important. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u42	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u43	And in order not to overthrow this law, we are now withdrawing these amendments, we are supporting the whole bill on restoring confidence in judges and the judicial system, but we call upon all fellow members of the national MPs to participate, if they wish, and to vote on a separate law that will create conditions for the rehabilitation of illegally condemned people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u44	Thank you. Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Chumak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u45	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to put to the vote an amendment that has been rejected on the committee. This is number 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u46	Please make a comment to the Committee on Amendment 36.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u47	Thank you. Answering the same question that's about to happen. The same answer as Igor Miroshnichenko and Mr. Peace is, of course, absolutely correct in terms of rehabilitation, and that verification of those decisions concerning violations of the substantive rights of natural and legal persons, of course. All of this needs to be settled in the legislative field. The only request is not to include these positions in the body of this Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary, because this bill in the form of first reading has been processed by both the Council of Europe and the experts of the Venice Commission were involved, and if we add standards that have not been processed by these international institutions, we can then get further comments from them. So as an MP, I promise to support all your proposals in the form of separate bills and requests for support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u48	Do you insist on voting this amendment? Don't insist. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Agaphon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u49	Please put to the vote Amendment 153. In accordance with the provisions of this law, certain restrictions are placed on what is required by the Supreme. members of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. Appropriately, it is noted that there can be no national deputies of the current vocation, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, heads of the courts, their deputies and so on, as well as persons who were members of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges before this law takes effect. That is, with regard to the last category of persons, we set certain limits that, according to the same conclusions of the Council of Europe experts, are considered to be limiting and discriminatory in nature. That is why I would like to point out that all restrictions apply to persons who have been drawn to criminal or disciplinary responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u50	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, let's understand that when we're cleaning up the rule of "to take effect by this law," and we're introducing the rule of disciplinary and criminal responsibility, we're thus clearing out the standard that we forbid those members of the High Council of Justice, those members of the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges who are in these positions today, to be re-elected. This is a mandatory requirement of the Trust Restoration Act, because these institutions: The Supreme Council of Justice and the Judicial Qualifications Commission were additional instruments for influencing the decision-making of the courts, and the judges directly informed us of that. Let us be frank, therefore, that none of those present in these positions were drawn to criminal or other disciplinary responsibility because they were an integral part of the criminal pressure of the Janukovich regime. Thank you. I think this position should stay that way because these people have no right to take office again in these highest state institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u52	The honourable national MP insists on voting? He insists. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 153 of the People's Deputy Agafonov. Please determine by vote. [[16:57:36]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, are there still national deputies who insist on their amendments? National MP Moskalenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u53	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I will not insist on Amendment 121, which stated that since the act became effective, the heads of the higher specialized courts, the heads of appeals and the local courts, who have been transferred from other courts and appointed to administrative posts after 30 July, are considered to have been dismissed. I don't insist on this amendment, but I want the transcript writer to answer the questions: Judges who are being released, who according to the law in force, the constitutions are doing their duty properly, can they be resubmitted if they are supported by a team assigned to the post in which they work?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u54	Answering your question. According to the text of the bill, I confirm that the question of the dismissal of judges from administrative positions and from the heads of chambers refers solely to the question of their dismissal. This is not a disciplinary or other measure of responsibility. Therefore, in the event that, according to the procedure, the judges continue to vote in secret for one year, they will consider it appropriate to elect this person as an administrative officer, they have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u55	I got the offer. Dear colleagues! I'm asking the committee representative to take his seat. And now, dear fellows, we will make our decisions. I'll remind the people's deputies that restoring confidence in our judicial system is a strategically important decision. So I ask the deputies of all factions to support this bill in the second reading and in general. We're voting on the committee. I'm asking all deputies to come to the hall. I ask the secretariat to announce that a decision will now be made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please calm down, everybody, sit in your jobs. Please have a seat. And please put this important law to the vote in the second reading and in general No.4378-1. Please vote. [[17:00:33]] For the 220 deputies. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] By factions. Region Party – 1, Parenthood – 80, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 19, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, we can, in principle, accept this law with you. I'm asking my colleagues to come to the hall again, first of all. Please announce to the Secretariat that we are requesting to meet in the session room as soon as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u56	Again. It's about the Law on Restoration of Trust in Ukraine's Judicial System. Dear colleagues, this is a strategically important issue for us. So I ask all the national MPs to support the proposal to return to the vote for this law. Please, Your Honor, support this proposal and return to making a decision on this matter. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. Colleagues, please vote everyone. [[17:01:57]] For 224 The factions, please. Out of procedure, please. The factions, just a minute. Region Party – 1, 81 – Fatherland, 32 – Impact, Economic Development – 21, 26 – Sovereign Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, I have a feeling that we may be able to make a decision. Let's get you to your seats. The cards didn't work. Two cards didn't work. Colleagues, I don't have to go against the law like that. But I'm asking you to mobilize all the factions, and all the MPs, and the non-fractional colleagues, still, so that we can make that decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and vote on this matter. Go back to making a decision. Please, colleagues, please vote. Did you all sit down? We vote in favour of returning to the consideration of this matter. Please vote. [[17:03:20]] For 234 We can if we want. You know what I'm sayin'? Dear colleagues, can I put in a second reading as a whole? I can bet. Dear colleagues, please support this bill in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:03:52]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 82, Impact – 32, 23 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27.32 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 37. Dear colleagues, please calm down. And I want to ask you, however, not to delay tomorrow, to return to the question of the Temporary Constitutional Commission. Colleagues, this has to be voted on, this is a matter of all factions. Please go back to the project's Questions. Order for changes to be made. Orders to form a temporary commission to draft a bill amending the Constitution (4627). I would like to ask my honourable colleagues to vote back on this matter. Please vote. [[17:04:59]] For 232 Decision taken. We've come back to that question. Dear colleagues, while we're gone, let's not stop. Please support the overall decision to extend the term of office of the Constitutional Commission. Please support on the basis of draft Decree 4627 as a whole. Mikhail, vote, please. [[17:05:36]] For 234 Decision taken. The chairman of the commission, Ruslan Knyazevich, thanks everyone very much for their support. Dear colleagues, can we work in a day's work? We can. The mood is in everyone's battle. Dear colleagues, the project. We have two important questions and a draft change before. Now, with the reduced procedure, we'll be able to accept everything. 4525 is a draft law amending the Criminal Enforcement Code (adapting the legal status of the condemned to European standards). Dear colleagues, I ask for a summary vote. Please support us to be able to consider all the questions today. Please vote. It went well. Let's do it in a nutshell. [[17:06:26]] For 202 Decision taken. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u57	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The execution of the sentence prescribed by the court is a set of restrictions, including constitutional rights and freedoms of the convicted person. Creating the right conditions for convicts to be punished is our direct duty to you. All the civilized countries have long understood that bringing up an animal in a colony from a criminal is more expensive and dangerous for society than it is for normal conditions to help him to develop and return to the citizens. The European Court of Human Rights rulings, as well as the numerous complaints of convicted persons, indicate an improper level of State protection of the conditions of punishment. This project aims to address the shortcomings of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code in compliance with constitutional requirements and European standards for the conduct of sentences. The bill provides for amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine, in particular the settlement of such matters: the rights of convicted persons to work, rest, pension insurance, humane treatment, rules on the detention of persons with tuberculosis, the order of visits to institutions for the execution of sentences by supervisory authorities, the order and conditions of punishment in the form of restriction of the will, i.e. mobile telephones, medical services for those sentenced to restriction of the will, the change in conditions of detention for those sentenced to deprivation of liberty, the regime in colonies and its basic requirements, short-term departures outside the colony to receive medical assistance, and the appropriate enforcement of the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights. Dear colleagues, this bill did not just come about, this bill came about because very much, you know, has appeared in the last three or four years of political prisoners. This bill was designed to help political prisoners such as Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, Anatoly Makarenko, Valérie Yvashchenko, and others who tried all of this on themselves today. Changes to the Ukrainian Penal Code are necessary. I'm asking you to support the committee unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u58	Finish up. Based on the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u59	He unanimously decided to support the bill and to make it possible for the convicted in Ukraine today to sit, to be brought up, said to be prepared for membership of Ukrainian society through trials, as well as trials created according to European standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, I remind you, this is a matter of adapting the legal status of the condemned to European standards. It's an important question when we go through civilization, through European integration. Please sign up for a reduced procedure, two to go, two to go, two to go. Please turn on the " Rada" system. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u61	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andri Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u62	Please turn on the microphone of People’s Deputy Andrew Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u63	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ukraine, by signing the political part of the Association with the European Union, assumed the responsibility of bringing the state into European standards, including in the penitentiary sphere. The proposed bill provides for the resolution of such issues as the rights of convicted persons to work, rest, retirement, and humane treatment, such as the prohibition of a baseless forced sleep interruption of convicted persons at night. The other one. The rules governing the maintenance of tuberculosis patients Third. Procedures for visits to institutions for the execution of penalties by the supervisory authorities. Four. Orders and conditions for execution of the sentence in the form of arrest. Fifth. Orders and conditions of punishment in the form of a restriction of will. The right to have portable personal computers and accessories with them. Using mobile devices. Medical services for convicts to the limit of their will. Seven. Changing the terms and conditions of detention for those sentenced to be deprived of their liberty. Eight. The regime in the colonies and its basic requirements. Nine. Short - term trips outside the colony to obtain medical care if such assistance cannot be beaten in the area of the appropriate place of deprivation of liberty. And the tenth. The compliance of compulsory feeding with the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights. Under all these conditions, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will support the adoption of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u65	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. The draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (adapting the legal status of the condemned to European standards) completely changes the system of remedies for the convicted. Today, our convicts do not even have the opportunity to feel deprived of their will. They are, in large numbers, deprived of everything they have. And this reminds us more of concentration camps that no one comes out of, so that we don't get there again. So the second, the friction of the walk, so they don't find themselves in society. So what we're proposing today is, I think, totally changes the status of our convicts and allows us to control, not only their relatives, but also their society as they go through. For example, the director of the administration responsible for the execution of the sentence is personally responsible for the placement of the convicts who have arrived at the institution. This prohibits the placement of such persons in rooms with persons with two or more convictions as well as those who are to have a negative impact on them according to their psychological qualities. The Fatherland faction insists that we be firm in accepting this European norm, and we call for the same support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u67	Capplin Sergey, Vitalia Klitschka faction, 144 constituency, Poltavščina. Today, the Supreme Council, by adopting this law, will certainly make a real humanist revolution. And people whose fate is in this way, who are wrong in their lives and who are behind bars, will feel there partly human, not being. For a long time, the government did not take the necessary steps to ensure such conditions for them, for the authorities were comfortable with the extremely tense situation in the country so that the country would be criminalized to keep the country unstable. We will indeed take a step toward European values. We're really going to make a real humanist revolution by making this decision. And perhaps if such a bill of his own time had been adopted by Parliament before Janukovich played, he had understood something in his cell once and for all, and he did not so much as hate it. did not hate the Ukrainian people. So our political power certainly supports everything that is meant to ensure that every Ukrainian citizen, regardless of which side of the grid he lives and is found, feels human, and has always had the right and opportunity to go back to life so that his fate will never finally be broken and then he did not come out of there and remain with hatred all over the world, continued his criminal course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the last to speak. And he begat the word of Oleg Zarubin. I think we'll give him one minute. Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u69	May I have the floor to the MP, Vitalia Zurawski?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u70	Turn on Vitaly Zuravsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u71	Respectful colleagues, the execution of punishments, are responsible for a set of restrictions, including the constitutional rights and freedoms of a convicted person. In this regard, the issue of creating proper conditions for convicts who are being punished is relevant. In connection with my professional activities, I had to visit a number of prisons in the United States and Europe. I can compare the conditions of our convicts. Don't bring anyone in, Lord. This bill prohibits baseless forced sleep interruptions on nighttime convicts, including solely for the purpose of verifying the presence of convicts. Forced feeding is prohibited. Instead, it is possible to have portable personal computers and accessories with them, using mobile devices. Our committee, the Committee for the Legislative Security of Law Enforcement, considered this bill. We've taken completely into account all the observations and corrections that came from deputies from different factions. And the committee unanimously voted in favour of the bill. I call upon the House, the People's Advocates, to support this bill and to vote for it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u72	Please, Oleg Zarubinski, let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u73	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I have taken the floor to make one suggestion. We now have many legislative initiatives concerning the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation. The bill is absolutely correct. I think everyone who is present will certainly vote for him. Because that's what it's called: adapting the status of convicts to European standards. In this connection, Alexander Valentinovich, I have an offer, I have addressed a letter to you. We were 10 years old in March as Ukraine approved the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation. It would be very useful for us to be at parliamentary hearings, I have no right to submit this ***, to analyze what was done in this regard in 10 years, and to come up with a plan for legislative work, where we would know clearly what areas we should work in, including with regard to the penitentiary system. In this case, it's worth voting for, but accept my offer as correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u74	Thank you. I ask the PSC to make an appropriate proposal for parliamentary hearings. Please, Your Honor, ask one minute of this question, Oleg Lazko, and we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u75	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I would now like to address the inhabitants of Luhansk, who are in the area of the district government of the BAF, where there are thousands of units of firearms. Boys, Cossacks, who's there! I'm asking you to assemble immediately. They tell me, in Russian, they understand Ukrainian, but I can speak Russian. I turn to those who are currently in the BAF Office: put down your weapons, leave your premises, return to your families, return to your children, because holding your weapons is a crime. Those who hold weapons are terrorists. We don't want blood, we don't want casualties, we call for weapons, we want families back. I have full responsibility for the events now taking place in Luhansk for the members of the faction of the Efremov-led Party of the Regions. I'm talking to Ephraim, who's funding these shares.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u76	Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Dear colleagues, please let's prepare for the vote. We have the opportunity to adopt this law, provided that we all vote together for it. It's a question of humanizing our penitentiary system, it's a question of humanizing all life in Ukraine. And any person is not insured by what they can get for playing. So please, I ask all my colleagues, all the national MPs, to support this project and vote for it as a whole. Is there no objection? None. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And please turn on the "Race" system. Please identify your peers by supporting Law 4525 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:20:52]] For 225 Honorable Fellows, 225. Well, we'll be uncomfortable just looking into our citizens' eyes. I'm sure everyone wants us to go back to that question. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to make a call so they don't write a statement that the card didn't work. Please sit in your workplace, wash your fingers so that you do not miss again, and support the proposal to return to the matter. Please, Your Honor, vote back on this matter. And I'll remind you, we need 226 votes, that's all we need. Please. From the 226th voice he ran! [[17:21:40]] For 230 Decision taken. You see how well we do. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to support this Project No.4525 as a whole. May I have the floor to vote for the distinguished national MPs? Please vote. For humane Ukraine! [[17:22:07]] For two hundred and thirty-seven votes. Decision taken. Thank you to all the national deputies who voted in favour of the humanization of our nation. Dear colleagues, a very important law. The students and the teachers hope that we will look at it now. I'm asking Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich for the rostrum. Draft Higher Education Act. While Lilia Mikhailna is on her way, support the reduced procedure so that we can accept him. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:22:49]] For 206 Decision taken. I ask Lilia Mikhailnovna, we have three draft laws, we can unite them somehow so that we can make one decision and not fail this very important question for our citizens, for the future of our country. Please, Lilia Mikhailvna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters, all who are watching the parliamentary session now, because this is actually a historic moment, because the Higher Education Act has tried many times in Parliament. In fact, this bill presents a systematic reform of higher education. And today we have a unique historical opportunity when there is agreement in Parliament, and this agreement is won by the cost of the lives of Ukrainians to give a new impetus to the development of higher education. I report that the decision of the Committee on Education and Science to agree with the authors of the three alternative bills has made this decision and to invite Parliament to vote in the first reading on the basis of Bill 1187-2. The bill was a major public discussion and reconciliation. More than 5,000 offers were sent to him. It was designed for the headship of the academic Michael Zgurowski. Instead, 1187 and 1187-1 are ready to support Bill 1187-2. So let me report Bill 1187-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u78	There's no objection. Your time is almost over. I'm asking you to continue your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u79	That's how it's gonna go on. This bill, honourable colleagues, is primarily aimed at preparing a quality human capital that will ensure the innovative development of the economy and society in Ukraine. Because today the higher education system is extremely monopolized, with low quality results, and cut off from the labour market and society as a whole. The mechanism for achieving its goal lies primarily in the interaction between education, science, business, and society. So in this bill, these are the mechanisms of interaction. The first position is to decentralize the education management system to ensure the real autonomy of higher education institutions. We're demolishing what happened to the Ministry of Education. And the regulatory functions that now have the most corruption are given to independent public-state bodies, which are made and written in law by example of similar institutions that work in many countries of the world, where education is provided. Increasing autonomy means increasing responsibility for the result. So the second important component is to create a quality assurance system for higher education. Because the consumer needs to know clearly what results come from higher education institutions. The introduction of such an external evaluation will also move us to integrate the network of higher education institutions into the needs of society and the country. To do this, we need to ensure transparent competition between them and clear information about their work. The important position of the bill is to ensure equal access to higher education for our citizens. Thus, the bill introduces external independent evaluation as a key criterion when entering higher education institutions. The bill envisions the development of student self-government and provides certain positions of protection and social protection for students. An extremely important part of the bill is the provision of academic freedom for teachers, as well as the opportunity to provide them with additional space for scientific work. Dear colleagues, the centralization of governance and the lack of autonomy have been marked by the lack of academic freedom in teachers. Now we have to give universities the function of creating new social and scientific thinking. Thus, the return of science to higher educational institutions is of great importance. This bill allows universities to work with intangible assets in the form of intellectual property, to create a network of regional research universities, to co-train philosophy doctors at the universities of the National and Sectoral Academy of Sciences. The bill's cross-cutting theme is to increase the role of employers and businesses in creating higher education tasks, as well as in supporting higher education. This refers to the development of higher education standards, the creation of professional competence criteria for graduates, and also to new mechanisms that would allow business to be involved in higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u80	Lilia Mikhailna, I apologize, we have such an opportunity to listen carefully to your report and no one will vote for it. So I'm asking that we shorten your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u81	To be completed. Dear colleagues, this is a great sectoral bill, and we are aware that it needs to be amended and improved. And we'll do it with you between the first and the second readings. And now I urge you all to vote and support the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we put the vote to the vote now? Let me remind you that this law is voted on as a basis, that is, in the first reading. To the second, we will be able to make the necessary adjustments with you and make the necessary decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u83	I'll name it. The authorship of Baloga Viktor Ivanovich, he looks at me carefully and fully supports this proposal and asks all national deputies to vote in favour of this law. Yes, Victor Ivanovich? Dear colleagues, have you all taken your seats? It's just... Please note that this is a project that the authors are asking for as a basis, this is Project 1187-2. That's the project I'm asking everyone to vote in a friendly and effective manner. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. please vote on the basis of the Higher Education Bill (No.1187-2). Please. [[17:31:36]] For 230 Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the summary procedure, Lilia Mikhailovna, can we vote? We can vote. Is the Committee going to be okay with the reduced procedure? Yes. Please, dear fellows. Lilia Mikhailna, a reduced procedure for putting the vote to a vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] So I take it the committee isn't sure they'll be able to prepare for a reduced procedure? Please, head of the committee, Lilia Mikhailovna, would you please tell me a brief procedure is going to work here or not? microphone. Huh? Two weeks is enough for you or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u84	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, there is a request for a full procedure, taking into account the importance of this law. Yes or no? Are we working full-time? So there's not going to be a reduced procedure? All right, all right. Let's go with the procedure, dear fellows. We will continue to discuss this matter. The main thing that we took as a basis is this project, this is an important project. And we are confident that the committee will be able to prepare him professionally so that we can vote on him as a whole. Dear colleagues, we have two laws left, important laws that support the security of our country. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, to consider them in a brief manner. 4491, please, by the summary procedure, vote. Please vote. [[17:33:23]] For-200 Decision taken. Procedural decision, I recall. Please, National Deputy Pankevitch Oleg Igorović will report on Act No. 4491 amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the financial and financial security of the State. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, at the outset of this bill, we should thank all the citizens of Ukraine, the physical, legal persons who, in such an uncomplicated state and for the Ukrainian army, helped the Ukrainian army. This aid was very different, it was, of course, financial, it was a product of the citizens. And those who were on the border roadblocks saw that there was no need for food today. But this aid was also very much and moral aid, because, indeed, what was happening is now what was long gone -- the merger of the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people. Sadly, however, existing legislation does not provide for such assistance to the Ukrainian army. And so it is proposed to adopt amendments to the laws, to the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, to the Ukrainian Defence Act, and to others that do not provide for any financing other than budget funding. We believe that in the face of a deep political and economic crisis in Ukraine, it is necessary to give Ukrainian citizens, entrepreneurs, businesses the opportunity to join in financing and their protection against the external aggressor and our army to obtain additional material security. Secondly, Ukraine's Humanitarian Aid and Charity Laws and charitable organizations do not refer to humanitarian or charitable aid as a means and property of citizens designed to strengthen the security of the state. We therefore consider it appropriate to make voluntary contributions to our Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u88	to humanitarian aid, and to charity for the purpose of all willing to provide such assistance and to be able to use, in fact, legal mechanisms that are not available today. Thus, it is proposed that the five laws be amended. There are positive conclusions from the Chief Research Administration. Please accept this bill as a basis. And according to the reduced procedure, I ask that there be room for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, I see proposals in the hall to vote without discussion. Is there no objection? There's no objection. From the committee is there a need to speak? Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u90	A low-end to our pensioners, Ukrainian youth, Ukrainian children, who came together to face a black threat that they took away and provided the Armed Forces with assistance -- 97 million dollars. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian army is growing stronger every day, feeling more confident and ready every day for secession. I propose to adopt the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, can we not discuss the question of voting? We can. I'm asking you to take your seats. This is the Faction Kapplin insists on the performance. Turn him on for one minute. I understand I can't refuse a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u92	Our political power certainly supports this bill. I would also like to express my words of support to all the Ukrainian people who are now with the army. And the second. I'd like to talk to you today, but we have the same problem. I would like to contact the Attorney General of Ukraine with the following information. The main soldier of the Poltava region has already addressed me and the governor with information that Poltava’s city chief Alexander Mamay, the region, is actually sabotaging the mobilization training in Poltawa, which is bordering the Kharkiv region. Which, you might say, is borderline from Russia. So I demand immediate criminal responsibility on the basis of an article on the treason of the city's head and I warn you, every one of these next Mommies will be required by our political power to take over the throat and put him in jail. We must be alone and fight clearly across our borders, for the unity of the state. Everyone, I emphasize, without exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, may we vote? Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please give me a minute. Colleagues, the only thing we can do is vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u94	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I think we need to demonstrate consensuality on this issue, but we're not very hot. Since the committee is proposing, removing, and we have agreed with the drafters of the bill, in the text of the word, the formulation of "when preparing for armed defence," because the charity of our Armed Forces is to be provided at all times. And if we have that formulation, we're going to limit the deadlines for aid. And given the comments, this observation by technical scientific and scientific authorities can also be adopted on the basis of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. I ask, with this amendment in mind, to adopt Bill 4491 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote for all of us to support our Armed Forces. Please identify yourself by voting, supporting Project 4491 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:40:12]] For 225 Colleagues, I beg you, Lilia Mikhailovna, your vote is not enough for the Ukrainian army, do you understand? I beg of you, Your Honor, we will return. Please, colleagues, take your seats. We can't leave that question. Please return to making your decision. Please, Your Honor, vote for a return to the consideration of this decision. Please vote. Push harder. [[17:40:55]] For 230 Decision taken. And now, with the support of the Ukrainian army, my fellow Ukrainians, I ask you to vote for the project as a whole. Friends, on the basis and in general. Don't get divorced. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[17:41:20]] For 231 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 80, Impact - 28, Economic Development - 29, Sovereign European Ukraine - 26, Freedom - 31, Company - 0, non-fractional - 36. Dear colleagues, let's consult. We have one bill left, the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code (for strengthening the financial and financial security of the state), which is related laws. Is there any way to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is room for voting. It's against the profile committee. I see Sergey Teryohin. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, there are, if you see, two bills, one more alternative. Today we discussed this on the committee, these bills. There are two concepts. The first concept is when, in fact, the money and property are transferred uncontrollably. The second concept is that it's all going through the general budget, through the State Treasury. And plus, if the property is transferred, then by a special procedure that is established both by law and by the Cabinet of Ministers. I remind you that we had this form in the late '90s, which was in the first project, and then there was a situation where businesses that had some kind of stock that they didn't need, and they just hung out on the balance, made a deal with some part of it, and they wrote it down for their own expenses. So the committee proposes that the room take the "cut-off" again and follow the reduced procedure, taking into account the proposals of the authors of the first bill to prepare it for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, do you understand the procedure? Can we vote on the committee's proposal 4492-1 and prepare for a reduced procedure for second reading? Please turn on the microphone of Pankevitch Oleg Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, we don't agree, the drafters of the bill, with such, free, interpretation of the concept by Mr. Sergey Teryochin. And we can agree that we work together on the basis of two laws, one law. Otherwise, we will insist that our law, which was registered first, be reviewed by Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to take two laws on the basis of which to enter into a single law. We can't? Colleagues, when we base ourselves on one another, are we obliged to consider his suggestions? Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, Litwin. Turn on the microphone, make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u100	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Let's stick to the logic. Our colleague, Pankevitch, and a group of deputies, have introduced the bill, but since this is the case with the Tax Code, it is necessary to amend the Tax Code separately. The National Security and Defence Committee considered, supported, and supported these two bills. Then comes an alternative bill. Let's support our colleagues and make a decision. However, the law that we have just passed will not work without another law. And let's put a dot. If there are any contradictions, we will find out. There's no money for charity now. Think about it: just under 100 million -- it's about 2 bracelets per person. There's nothing to control. Let us now accept the bill of colleague Pankević and other national deputies as a whole, and put a dot on it for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I have an offer. To do that, I can see, at the border we have the number of votes, the proposal is this: let's do it on the way. First and second, we vote, we take the first law of the national MP Pankewich as a basis. And by a reduced procedure, we're working on it, taking into account the suggestions made by Sergey Teryochin. I'm asking you, this is the only format that allows us to work. Sergei, the point is, we're talking about the first reading. We're talking about taking the basis. Otherwise, we don't have that or that option. So let's do it. Law 4492 came first. I put this law to the vote and ask him to support it as a basis, that is, in the first reading. Please vote. [[17:46:39]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0.76 – Fatherland, 10 – Impact, 20 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 0 – Communists, non-fractional 35. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote No.4492 as a basis. No.4492-1 is based. Please, dear fellows. So that we can make at least one decision, and by the time we read it, we worked it out. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Number 4492-1, please vote. [[17:47:24]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 77, Impact is 24, 27 is Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine is 22, 11 is Freedom. She didn't vote this time. And 0 is the Company, 32 is non-fractional. Please turn on the microphone, Kirilenko Viacheslava.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u102	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Well, as long as we're playing law enforcement, they don't see any money. General Kuzmuk was speaking, 97 million dollars amassed, human money. So I think those who are interested in this question know that most of this money can't even be used right now. Because now this procedure is already as complicated as possible. And when we had to take out the students of the academy, the college, and the Sevastopol. So from this fund, the money could not reach the students. Because the Mini-Defense has a hundred bills to pay, but there's nothing he can do. And let people know that these 97 million dollars they've counted, and they can't be used. And by the way, the students at that private expense had to send in extra money and look for that money. So the proposal is to go back to voting for the Pankevitch bill and vote again. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u104	Because, first of all, he's got more votes in the room right now. And secondly, it can become a good base to make improvements, to do it, and to unlock, finally, the money that people spend on the army, and the army can't get it. And we are obliged to do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I only ask that we do not generalize the problem here. The problem is taxation, not simplification. As for the procedure of use, according to information already provided by the national deputy Kirilenko. I asked the Ministry of Finance to simplify the use of funds. They can be used, of course, for less than an hour. But this procedure will also be simplified. Because treasury accounts have their approach to the organization so that the funds used are not earmarked. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Teryochin, and, unfortunately, I see that we have no way of making this decision today. Please, Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that this is a very good idea, the author of which is the Freedom faction. The only thing that's not done is what they wanted at the end of history. On the one hand, it's not at the same point. On the other hand, it allows the theoretical wavering of these charities. It's a fraction of the same idea and the same results as Freedom. I'm talking to my colleagues, and I'm willing to take down my copy of "creep one," put your authorship on "creep one" and work it out for a second reading on a simplified procedure. I don't have any laurels.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u107	Please turn on Oksana Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u108	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the project is very necessary. But really 4492 is bad. I propose to re-vote 4492-1, provided that the author of this bill counts not only Teryohin, but also Pankevitch, Sekh and other members of the Freedom faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u109	Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pankević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, it's not about who's going to be the author and it's not about ambition, and we've never shown our ambitions, they weren't in the foreground. And that's why we're also ready to remove our names from the authors, but vote in favour of this bill. Why? His main difference from the alternative is that our bill is stimulating. It actually encourages our entrepreneurs to help the army. As for the schemes that are being highlighted here and the finesse of administration, of course, you can always figure out the schematics. But to do that, we say that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to whom we trust, actually describes how this is happening. And please, right now we insist that this principle -- ours should be the first, it's significantly different from the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-08-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, I propose that the Supreme Council return to this issue, and then we will redefine what law we vote for. Please vote on the return to this question. [[17:52:59]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions. Please. 0 – “Regions”, 78 – “Fatherhood”, 24 – “BACK”, 28 – “Economic development”, 21 – “North European Ukraine”, 31 – “Freedom”, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 31. Ladies and gentlemen, I offer to return to this question at our next meeting. Now I just see that there's no number of votes in the room for his acceptance. I thank you for the work of the National Deputies. We'll continue our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
