ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and the secretariat will make an announcement to have all the national deputies come into the session room. We have a lot of important questions, including the question of illustration -- that's an interesting question -- fighting corruption, and a lot of other issues that we need to consider today. Dear colleagues, please join us all in the session room. Please make an announcement for all national MPs. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to take their seats. Let's register the national MPs to determine how many people in the Parliamentary Hall are ready to make decisions. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[16:05:23]] Registered -270 There are 270 national deputies registered. The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Dear colleagues, wait! Dear colleagues, you and I have considered the draft Law on the Principles of State Anticorruption Policy in Ukraine (Anticorruption Strategy). We agreed that after the break, the Supreme Council would be ready to make a decision. I want to ask my esteemed colleagues, we can put it to a vote now, or we can put it to a vote. The law is very responsible, I'm loud, few people, let's just postpone a little bit. Yes or no? Let us now consider the laws that the Supreme Council likes to consider. This is Law 4531a for review and decision-making, this is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and conduct elections of Ukrainian national deputies. I'd like to ask, David Vajaevich. As long as we're talking, I hope people come along. I ask David Vazievich to focus on the main issue. Yesterday, during the Conciliation Council meeting, which took place with the participation of the President, we discussed this law quite actively enough. And before that law, there was one significant observation, particularly that of the Party of Regions. Alexander Sergiyovich! Ephraim! Alexander Sergiyovich, I'm just talking about your remark to this law. In particular, the aim was not to change the location of district commissions in Donetsk and Lugansk areas where antiterrorist operations were carried out. And in principle, they agreed that this position was removed from the law. So, David Vajajevic, I would like you to focus on this issue of national MPs so that we can still make decisions together about the fate of this law. Please, David Vazievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Honorable colleagues! Draft Ukrainian law amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and elections of Ukrainian national deputies (register No. 4531a). I have already informed Parliament that on September 2nd the Committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the adoption of the bill with registration number 4531 on the basis and as a whole. Taking into account the additions proposed by the Committee that were given to you and published on the official site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee concludes. The adoption of this law would save over 300 million dollars of budget money. Since the bill had never been adopted in the electoral process, individual positions had become obsolete and had to be changed. First. In view of the situation in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the bill provided for the Central Election Commission to be given the right to review and modify the boundaries and centres of the one - mandating districts in these areas. Since all KLAs are now in place and registered candidates in one-mandatory districts, it is proposed that the bill be excluded. Well, Mr. Chairman, you reminded me. Since the CCA is already in place and has begun to work, it is proposed to exclude the changes to part one of the first articles of article 31 and 32, which determine the beginning of the commission's powers from the number of members who have taken an oath. In the present law, two thirds of the minimum composition of the commission, the bill proposed two thirds of the composition of the formed commission. The third point. The bill contains the standards agreed with the Central Electoral Commission, which was proposed that the last day of submission to the Central Electoral Commission for the registration of candidates for deputies was September 17th, not September 25th, as provided by law. This proposal is linked to the technological impossibility of producing an electoral ballot and a time limit provided for in the law. Because if this law is to be enacted to take effect, it has to be pressed by the President and published on September 17th, tomorrow. I suggest we move the last day of submission of documents to the CBC on September 20th and the registration of candidates by September 23rd. Point four. Just as September 15th will end the deadline for the nomination of candidates by political parties. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u3	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u4	It's suggested that we rule out the change to part 9 of Article 107, which removes this time limit. Please take into account the committee's recommendation and adopt a bill (registration number 4531a) as a whole with the changes proposed, entrusting the committee, when preparing it for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council, to carry out technical and legal work in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority. We need to realize that for today's extremely complex social and political situation in and around Ukraine, the decision we have adopted today depends on the fact that the Central Election Commission will be able to properly ensure the organisation of the electoral process: the production of ballot papers, the protection of commissions and electoral documentation, the establishment of election results and the election of the legitimate Supreme Council. Today, dear colleagues, all responsibility lies with us. Therefore, I ask everyone to vote in favour of this proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u5	There's a question for the reporter. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u6	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear David Vajaevich. Your proposed bill has clearly positive novels, positive things, such as allowing voters from the number of military personnel and members of the primary or the army to vote in connection with the task, and so forth. But I have a question about funding. Here's an entry item: "to specify the mechanism for the allocation of funds for the preparation and holding of non-recurrent elections", followed by "the reduction of government budget expenditure". I have a question for you. You remember well that the Supreme Council has never voted positively for allocating money from the government budget in the amount of almost a billion dollars, and this was done without the Supreme Council from the contingency fund. How can we now make decisions about financing if we have not voted on the principle issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u7	I think that's going to be an extra question in the package, it's going to be about funding the election because the law in force provides that funding can also be from the reserve fund. And I think depending on what we're voting for right now, there's going to be a budget committee, because that's the question. Now there's a minister of finance here, and I think he would answer that very correctly, more specifically, because the budget committee has to give several permits to the finance minister, the finance ministry to use this money. But absolutely, absolutely, it's obvious to us that 300 million can be saved in principle. So 600 million is essentially going to be the cost of this election. Yeah, absolutely. We didn't vote on the budget changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u8	I see. Please, Mikola Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u9	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. The Honourable Head of the Committee! I have a question for you. In view of your presentation of this bill, it is clear that the first three points are absolutely reasonable and I think the Central Election Commission will put these questions absolutely right, but I would like you to stop changing the deadlines for nominations. Because not all MPs have understood, I think that after you explain yourself, there will be an understanding that these changes need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u10	I mean, if we vote in favour of a bill with these changes that I've made, we have the last day of filing documents for the CBC, by September 20th. So we're going to give three days until September 23rd of CBC for registration. That's the end of the registration on September 23rd, and the filing of the documents by September 20th. This allows us to quietly, quietly without any excesses to print the newsletters, because a lot of us have a mixed system, so I think it's just enough time to submit their documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u11	Please, National Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Head of the Committee! I really support what was said, because we have a great risk that we, God forbid, can somehow fail to print electoral ballots. You understand how serious this is. Even though we are now going to include two combinations that in Ukraine have an exclusive legal right to print documents with degrees of protection, and this is a polygraph combination of "Ukraine" and "Banknote and Monetary Court" of the National Bank of Ukraine, there's a risk that in that small period of time, all of which goes to less than 20 days, they have to print, one and the other combinations, a huge number of ballot papers. So, dear colleagues, I think it's such a technological decision that none of the political powers should think when they vote for it. Because we outflanked all things that could theoretically be considered political. There's only one thing left to do, anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u13	I see. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address everyone in the room, especially the opposition representatives. It is vital that these elections be conducted in an honest, transparent manner, so that every citizen has the right and the right to vote. This bill is technical. He is helping the Central Electoral Commission and our representatives to the Supreme Council in such a way that we can conduct and organize these elections well. I invite all those who feel responsible for the quality of the electoral process to vote. And I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. I'd like to put Alexander Valentine's Day to a vote. Because if we fail this vote, it's going to be actually repealing the law. And many deputies are not yet present in the hall. So that we don't bury this law, let's see if we have enough in this room right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we have a signal vote to go back to this issue. Because if Parliament does not support a return to the debate, unfortunately, I will not be able to put the matter to the vote. Thank you, David Vajaevich, please sit down. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Once again, I stress your concern about Act 4531a amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and the holding of elections of Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, this is only about technical issues that allow us to save the budget, the national budget to be saved during the elections. All the questions spoken of by the representatives and factions of the Party of Regions, other MPs who caused any doubt or suspicion, are withdrawn. This law does not regulate any matter of principle that affected the conduct of the elections. It's purely technical issues of organisation of the election and the economy of the budget. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I recall draft Law 4531a. Please support, colleagues, the return to the draft Law 4531a. Please, colleagues, vote. [[16:19:02]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 38 – "Paternality", Regions – 4.35 – "CHAPTER", 29 – "Economic development", USM – 0.14 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, does it make sense for us to go back now to the question of the State budget for 2014 on the increase in the expenditure of the CVA for non-recurrent elections? Yes. Let's now, please, colleagues, well, we haven't changed electoral legislation, we haven't made technical corrections. But let's still support, dear colleagues, to all of us, let's support the introduction of this issue, which concerns exclusively election funding. It's a balanced law. Please, Your Honor, please support the budget committee led by Gjeller Evgen Borisovich, actively supports this proposal. Act 4464 is a draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 (to increase the expenditure of the CWC for the election of Ukraine's national deputies in 2014). Please, fellow believers. Support the return to the consideration of this matter. One more point: 4464a registration number. Vote please, Your Honor. [[16:20:48]] For 175 Not much. "For" - 175. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 38, Regions – 1, Impact – 35, 29 – Economic Development, MMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 23. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of questions, but with this approach to voting, I don't see any chance of accepting them. And we have a very important anti-corruption issue that's being prepared right now. And I have to give the committee head the information that the ready-made law is already integral to the anti-corruption bureau of inquiry. We have a question about the illustration, you see, a poster that's beautiful in our session room. And we need to vote on this issue today because people support this initiative. So, dear colleagues, I would still ask the faction leaders to mobilize the number of deputies working today. We do not have many days to work, and today one of these days. Dear colleagues, next question is how to get into the agenda of the session. The draft Law is proposed to be included in the agenda (Registration No. 5040). This is a draft Act amending article 188-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to prevent natural gas from being stolen). Dear colleagues, I'm sure everyone wants to prevent the natural gas from being stolen, right? Yes. And if so, let's support the inclusion of this law into the agenda of the day session. Please, Your Honor, 5040. Please support the inclusion. [[16:22:46]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 52, Regions – 1.33 – Impact, 21 – Economic Development, "MS" – 0, "North European Ukraine" – 17.35 – "Freedom", non-fractional – 21. Dear colleagues, it is very good that the European Parliament is not directly involved with us now, nor does it see how we are voting with you in principle for important laws. I'd like to ask, colleagues, let's still mobilize our capabilities. I ask the faction leaders to ensure the presence of deputies in the session hall. I ask the secretariat to contact all the deputies to enter the session room. Dear colleagues, next question. Draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine regarding the location of the discovery of an inheritance. This question affects many of our citizens. And I would ask you, without any political emphasis, to support Project 5038 with regard to the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please, dear fellows. Please support the inclusion. Please vote. [[16:24:15]] For 211 There's potential. To 211. The decision is not taken. But it's near, dear fellows. Well, by factions, please let's see. 58 – "Paternality" is an opportunity to vote again. The region's party is only 3 concerned about Ukrainian citizens. Impact 31, Economic Development 24, USM 0, Sovereign European Ukraine - 20, Freedom - 35, non-fractional - 40. Please turn on the microphone for the national MP Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u16	Thank you. Alexei Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopil. Dear fellow MPs, we are now considering extremely important issues. First of all, these are questions relating to the fate of a Ukrainian, a small Ukrainian, who moves across different corridors of power, knocks at the door, and cannot reach. I realize that many of the national deputies are already working the districts, piranhas on the radio, television. But now we remain the people's deputies, who have to adopt extremely important laws that apply exactly to the fate of our people. The U.S. Freedom Union in its entirety is voting in favour of these bills and so on. A hundred percent. And that's why I'm calling on other factions to ensure that my deputies vote a hundred percent, because the fate of the Ukrainians is in your hands. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u17	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. Dear colleagues, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the Freedom faction is voting in its entirety. The only faction that is voting in full today. Please, Your Honor, take an example from the Freedom faction. And to support, at their suggestion, re-inclusion into the agenda. Colleagues, I'm talking to colleagues who are meeting there in the center of the Parliamentary Hall. Eugene Borisovich, a colleague may be asked to sit down and support the interests of the Ukrainians by approving the inclusion in the order of the day of this important law. I'd like your respectable colleagues to support you. Attention, to your stations. Colleagues, then, then hugging. Let's work now. Draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the location of the discovery of an inheritance) 5038. Attention, fellow believers, is an opportunity to support it. Please vote. We're all voting for inclusion in order. I vote and invite everyone, please. [[16:27:08]] For-198 Colleagues, I can't provide an appearance. The factions, please. 198, no decision taken. 59 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of the Regions" – 1, 33 – "The Impact", "The Economic Development" – 26, "The Press" – 0, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 20, "Freedom" – 35, "the Non-Factional" – 24. Dear colleagues, what are the suggestions for our work? National MP Mishchenka, turn on the microphone. I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, well, I understand that, indeed, we have an election campaign here. But one who travels to the district and knows that people ask one question: Is something changing in the country? Nothing changes in the country. On May 29, we voted on my inheritance law. May 29, 249 votes where he will not now try to buy his father in his own. That is, the son of his father's house, handing over his money and all that, that is, the queue won't be in the notary. No one signs it, no one signs it. It's been standing since May 29th. So what's changed in the country? We're this Act on the first application, on the inheritance, but it doesn't decide anything, this law that we're putting to the vote right now doesn't decide anything. You're going to have to sign the one we voted for, all the deputies knew that we voted for the Mishchenka Heritage Act, everyone knows and they're all waiting for it, the country says: "What's changing in these countries?"..
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u20	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! These laws, which are now in the order of the day, are important and the faction of "North European Ukraine" is voting. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, I support the National MP Mishchenka, the Heritage Act is important, we voted for him, all the settlements, especially in the villages, people ask about this law and it needs to be signed. Just as we believe it is necessary to put in place the Law on the Distinguishment of Pension Reform. We promised the electorate, let us set up and make sure that this Supreme Council fulfills its obligations to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u21	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u22	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, I'm addressing you, and I think all the colleagues have this subterfuge. Alexander Valentinovich, please contact the President with a letter from the Supreme Council on the signing of the law that we have voted for the legacy of the Mishchenka People's Deputy, which will help millions of citizens to form their inheritance. The second question. I'm addressing all the other colleagues, the distinguished national MPs, and this law that we now, we want to vote on, it also helps to ensure that the inheritance is formed and simplified. But I also ask, Alexander Valentinovich, we need to go back to the Book of Illustration today, and the Law is bound to be established by the Anti-Corruption Bureau. We have to vote on these laws in order to put an end to the processes that are going on in the end. It's not paying off.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u23	I see. National MP Yatzenko, please, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, indeed, among those who are majors, especially in rural areas, know that you are coming, people ask that they were building a house, no one helped, then a man or a woman died, an inheritance, and that they should pay 10,000 dollars of landwork, and so on. I mean, really, it's a very urgent question. And I want to join my colleague Mishchenka, I very much ask you, Alexander Valentine's Day, give the commission directly, literally, today, or for the next session on Tuesday, when it will be our first question to ask this question and finally solve it. Because initially there was Janukovic's veto in 2012, then, right now, signed, maybe yes, a text that doesn't fit what they say is a requirement on this issue. And we need to adopt a normal law so that the village councils can finally pass on this issue so that people don't pay money and get a quick inheritance. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, when the law is not signed by the Supreme Council, I'll have it signed immediately. If there is any need to make changes to the law, let us make these changes the next session day and vote in general. I don't see any problems here. But, dear colleagues, I want to say that this law that we're talking about right now is a change to the Civil Code on the location of the discovery of an inheritance, and it's primarily about people who are forced to leave their homes in the East of our country today, and they can't acquire an inheritance today because they have problems with it, and they're asking for support of that law. Because it applies, I want to say again, to all the citizens of our country and, above all, to those who have to leave their homes and move to other cities, to other regions of our country. That's why I'm talking to everyone, my dear colleagues, about supporting this law. Please, Your Honor, for the last time, I will try to ensure that this law is included in the agenda of the day session, as well as 5038 regarding the location of the inheritance, the amendment of the Civil Code. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote everyone. [[16:33:11]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 65 – Fatherland, region 3, 31 – Impact, Economic Development – 29, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 21.31 – Freedom, 25 non-fractional. The next question we will now try to include in the agenda, and I ask the secretariat to contact the head of the Chumak Committee to provide me with information on the readiness of the law on the anticorruption bureau. Please, are you ready? I'll let you know now that I'm included. Dear colleagues! Let us put to the vote the day-to-day draft Law on Prevention, Attention, and Opposition to Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Honorary Fellows! It's a matter of principle. Please, Your Honor, support the fight against the legalization of money laundering, and we will now see by factions who fight money laundering and who washes them. Please, Your Honor, please, project (5067): to prevent and counteract the legalization (washing) of proceeds obtained in a criminal way. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[16:34:54]] For 181 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 64 – "The Fatherland", the Party of Regions only 3, "The Strike" – 33, 3 – "The Economic Development", 1 – the MOU, 16 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", the non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues! With you and me, I'm going to try again to support the three laws that the government has introduced to reform the tax and budgetary sphere so that a new budget for the new fiscal year can be formed under the new fiscal and tax system. Dear colleagues, the offer to support the reform work of our Cabinet of Ministers, I immediately, they're going with a package -- three laws. This is Law 5078 of the Law on amending the Budget Code (for the reform of inter-budget relations). This is a bill amending the Tax Code and some other laws of Ukraine (for tax reform). And this is a draft of Law 5080 on the reform of compulsory state social insurance and the legalization of the payroll fund. Ladies and gentlemen, before the vote of the Peace People's Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u26	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dearly Attended and Members of the Government! The thing is, I want to show you this -- all of these three bills we got this morning, we're ready to support the bill on the agenda, but we're not ready to vote for them in that way. And we insist that we don't put these bills to the vote today, except for the introduction of the agenda, because there are still substantial observations on social policy. There are other things that you can't even give them in this way at all. Now in our faction, there's a note, for example, from Mr. Zelik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I emphasize your attention, I point out that today we should only include them in the agenda so that we can look at them on the committees, and only after that could we consider them in the session room. Therefore, they are not scheduled to vote in general today only on inclusion in the agenda. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u28	Alexander Valentinovich! And I'm addressing our colleagues, my dear colleagues, I'm proposing, I've been to a government meeting, I've been listening to the government's proposal on these laws, I'm proposing that they be included in the agenda. But, dear colleagues, I'm addressing Alexander Valentine's Day, the government only filed today, we've prepared alternative laws for these laws, because we believe that this is exactly what tax reform is, it will reduce revenue and make the crisis worse. I would like to ask you to have our alternative laws included in the agenda and considered by the committee to then consider them in the Supreme Council. And all those who will give it to be automatically included, because today we've only entered, we've put it to a vote, we haven't had time to submit alternatives. I propose that these laws be incorporated into the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will remind you, under the Rules, when there are alternative laws, they are automatically incorporated into the agenda and are 14 days in order to pass alternative laws. So it's not a problem. Please, National Deputy Rosenko. I can see the hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u30	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to say that I personally find it very sad on the day of the ratification of the Agreement with the European Union to take into account the documents submitted by the government today. As regards the reform of the so-called social insurance system, it is not the European Union, not Germany, not Spain, not Italy, not Britain, but it is the case of two countries where the system offered by the government exists, and it is the two countries Russia and Belarus. Yes, perhaps the government should not have made a ratification agreement with the EU, but should have submitted a ratification document on the Customs Union Agreement? And then everything would become, immediately it would become clear in this state: who is speaking for what? So, Alexander Valentine's Day, I propose to put in the vote the inclusion of these bills in the agenda, and not all the national MPs to hide, but to demonstrate their position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u31	Please, national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u32	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! I guess we need to take these bills into the agenda today, but I want everyone to know that these are laws that reduce pensions, these are bills that reduce social pay, this is increasing pedagogical. Intern. And you have to remind yourself that today the dollar rate has changed twice, which is essentially 400 billion per year if the rate has doubled. And we have a budget of 400 billion. These bills need to be considered, for every bill has a specific life behind it. Today and so, the Ukrainian people bear the costs of buying armor for the fighters, buying food for the fighters, and everything they need. That's why the agenda is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u33	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I want to address all the national MPs of this vocation, the seventh vocation. Dear colleagues! Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues, the State budget of Ukraine is the main document that any parliament has. But not only does he accept it but he also has to control it. Please tell me, is there any logic - I say not by content, but by form - is it logical that this call, which completes its work (actually, we have already been deprived of authority by the President's Order on the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council), would accept this ratio, perhaps, of the fine drafts, I don't know, they were only given today? Then who will accept this budget on the basis of these bills? Our call? No, next call. I believe that the next call is to adopt these bills, adopt the budget of Ukraine on their basis, and monitor and report to the people of Ukraine for this budget. And don't turn on the "breathers" then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, Alexander Vitaliyovich, a few words before the vote. Because, you see, there's a critical observation, there's a question about the quantity of materials. I'd like to ask: a very short feature before we make decisions about inclusion. Colleagues, I emphasize, today is exclusively about getting into the agenda. Period. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u36	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear National MPs, a few comments. First of all, Mr. Jeremeyev, I know that not everyone has been able to get to know the document that we're passing on, but these documents are completely not about the things that you're talking about. I would like to point out that the result of these bills is a three-month work carried out not only by the government but also by experts working with the government. The Supreme Council is finally able to carry out extremely serious and systematic tax reforms, inter-budget relations, and finally reduce the only social contribution that today undercuts wages, unify social insurance funds and put order there, legalize wages. This work has not even been done in the last three months, and we have been led to it. This has certainly been the last three years where all the initiatives in all three directions have been systematized. I think it would be really good if we put this in the agenda and then work together on these documents. This will not only be an effective vote for the bill, but it will be an opportunity for every national MP to say that he is ready for reform in these very important areas for our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u37	Dear friends, I see a lot of hands. Dear colleagues, I have an offer: when we include this project in the agenda, we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Today, I heard a suggestion that we should prepare for the discussion. I planned that this issue would be discussed with you before the results of the next sessional or next sessional week. So, honourable colleagues, let's stop this discussion now, because it doesn't make sense (we didn't even put it into the agenda), and we're going to make a decision by voting. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of government laws on reforming the Ukrainian Budget Code: inter-budget reform (registration No. 5078); No. 5079, this is the introduction of tax reform into the Tax Code; and the reform of mandatory public social insurance and the legalization of the labour fund is No. 5080. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of this package of laws. Please vote for inclusion. [[16:45:27]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 57, Fatherland, 1st, 1st, 1st, 1st. 3, I'm sorry, Economic Development, 0-MSP, 4-North European Ukraine, 35-Freedom, non-fractional 16. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to mobilize Parliament's efforts, to call the national MPs. Now we're going to show the position of each faction. Before I wanted to consider the issue of combating corruption right now, I was informed that the committee was ready to consider the issue. And after that, I would suggest that we move on to the illustrative law on the cleansing of power, a very interesting forward-looking law. I'd like your colleagues to support me on this. [[Noise Nodes]] Yes, it is. So, dear colleagues, the only thing I can see is the hand of the head of our committee concerned with tax matters. And he probably wants to ask me to include in the agenda the Act on Amendments to the Tax Code (to create an opportunity for tax agreements). Is that what I'm saying? National MP Homutinnick, turn on his microphone. Before the block of the fight against corruption and illustration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u38	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Actually, I wanted to say by law. As it were, tax reform and other reforming things. I would like two words on this issue to say that the 117 votes voted in favour of the bill in favour of these bills are the result of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers and the result of the work of the Ministry of Finance directly. Because that three-month job that was going on, she didn't come to any meeting with me, for example, as head of the committee, as head of the Committee, as head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, and with other people's deputies. What is now said to have been meetings with experts and a lot of meetings. At least now I've been meeting with the American Chamber of Commerce, which has taken a firm stand against these reformist things and warned that once they're adopted, Ukraine will move to the negative side of the Doing Business rating. And one last question. This is the bill you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u39	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u40	After that bill, by which you said 5043, you still asked to put it on the agenda and maintain it. He was supported by all the factions of Parliament. And also, this is about creating an opportunity for a tax agreement. Business is waiting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u41	Dear colleagues. It's about Law 5043, it's also about inclusion in the agenda. It's a tax compromise, you know, we've been doing this for days, let's say. And now before we talk about it, let's figure out how to put it into the agenda. If it's included in the agenda, I don't rule out that we can look at it, in the case of non-inclusion, we won't discuss it, because that's not the point. Please, dear fellows. Please, Your Honor, decide on the inclusion in the agenda of Act 5043 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create an opportunity for a tax agreement. Let me remind you, this is a national sales project. Please be sure to include it in the agenda. [[16:49:40]] For-152. The decision is not taken. The factions. 21 – Fatherland, Region 0.32 – Impact, Economic Development – 30, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 15.35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 19. Dear colleagues, the question is not supported and there is no point in discussing it. So, dear colleagues, we can now move on to issues related to you. No, I'm sorry. I don't even have glasses. We have another project to put into the agenda. Last project for inclusion in the agenda. This is project 5036 – a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act to protect the interests of the state. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the protection of the interests of the State. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of the 5036 bill in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, please support me. [[16:50:53]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 58 – Fatherland, 1 – Regions, Hit - 33, 14 – Economic Development, 3 – 18 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – non-fractional – 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, once again, it is not difficult for me to put to the vote, preferably for you to vote. Is there a chance to re-vote? Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? A very important law, please, that protects our air. Please, Your Honor, regarding the protection of the interests of the State, Project 5036. Please re-support the inclusion of it in the order of the day. Please vote. [[16:52:00]] For 197 The decision, unfortunately, is not adopted. The factions, please. 61 – "Paternity", Regions – 1, "SHOOT" – 34, 29 – "Economic development", MMS – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 17, "Freedom" – 35, "non-factional" – 20. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come to the parliamentary rostrum, please welcome Victor Vasilovich Chumak, Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigation Act. Please. I'm sorry, I understand it's the President's law, right? First, let's listen to the president's representative. Now, please inform me, I'm going to put the vote to the vote for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u43	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As stated in the National Security Strategy of Ukraine "Ukraine in a Changing World", one of the current threats to national interest and national security in Ukraine is the high level and systemic nature of corruption in public authorities. One reason for this is the inefficiency of the existing institutional mechanism against corruption in Ukraine. Then one of the main ways to improve the effectiveness of corruption, the fight against corruption by law enforcement means is through institutional reform of bodies that carry out judicial investigations and criminal prosecutions in cases of corruption. This can also be achieved by improving the specialization of law enforcement agencies. But it is urgent to address the inefficiency of the institutional model and the existing specialization of anti-corruption. In line with Recommendation 2.5, adopted, 2.9, the second round of evaluation under the Istanbul Action Plan in December 2010 recommended that Ukraine ensure, without further delay, effective anti-corruption expertise in the law enforcement system by establishing an autonomous specialized body of anti-corruption investigations, which will be structurally independent of existing law enforcement authorities and security authorities. It will focus on high-level corruption and will be provided with adequate guarantees of independence, authority and resources, in line with international standards and best practices. Taking into account existing best practices and examples, as well as internal factors, it is appropriate to create a new autonomous body with the primary function of detecting and resisting corruption crimes that pose a particular social danger. In doing so, such an authority should comply with the international standards set out below. The bill proposes to create a new state body, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The National Bureau is proposed to create as a state law enforcement body on which the warning of detection, termination and theft, criminal offences attributed to its jurisdiction, is based. The task of this body is to identify opposition to criminal corruption offences committed by senior officials authorized to perform functions of the State or local self - government. The adoption of the law will result in a qualitative increase in the resistance to corruption by higher public officials, especially by creating an effective institutional basis to prevent detection and termination and to investigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u44	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u45	corruption. In view of the above, honourable colleagues, and given that we have in fact taken into account those bills that were previously national deputies, the authors of several legislative initiatives on this issue agree on the benefit of the project that the President has put forward. And in view of the fact that this bill has been agreed with civil society, our international partners, who, in accordance with Ukraine's international legal obligations, are constantly monitoring the situation surrounding the fight against corruption, would like to consider this bill and accept it as a basis and as a whole, as an urgent one and must be accepted at this session of Parliament, taking into account the commitments Ukraine has made under the signed agreements with the International Monetary Fund. Thank you very much and please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I remind you once again, it's Bill 5085. This is a draft of the Law on a System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anticorruption. It's actually about creating, what we talked about with you at the morning session, the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigation. Dear colleagues, in order for us to receive it in the first reading, we need to include it in the agenda. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this law should be incorporated into the order of the day. Huh? Well, we need to include it and look at it, we're looking at it immediately. So, honourable colleagues, I'm pointing out that this is a matter that we need to take into account, given that the fight against corruption is one of our priorities, our honourable colleagues. And I'm convinced that every political force that plans to go to the polls has probably put the fight against corruption as one of their main programming tasks. Now we're going to be able to see with you what political forces are really ready to fight corruption in Ukraine and who are just going to write this issue down for their election programs. Please, Your Honor, take your seats, please, and support the inclusion in the agenda. I underline the inclusion in the agenda of the Daily Draft Law on the System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Area of Anti-Corruption (registration No. 5085). Please, Your Honor, vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:58:33]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now. 69 – "The Fatherland", 1 only – from the Party of Regions, "The Strike" – 34, "The Economic Development" – 23, "The Press" – 0, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 16, "Freedom" – 35, "the Non-Factional" – 23. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u47	I'm asking you to pass on the word to Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u48	Please turn on the Rosenk People's Deputy microphone. I see a hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u49	Alexander Valentinovich, unfortunately, we see the situation today in the hall, and today the obvious desire of representatives of the former authorities, the former compatriots, the leaders of the former Party of Regions to tear down two fundamental votes here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first vote is to fight corruption. And the second bill they want to break in this way is a illustrative bill that today requires public acceptance. They just escaped from the Supreme Council of Ukraine meeting room and thus blocked any opportunity for the Supreme Council to work today. I don't think we have any other choice today, Alexander Valentinovich, there is a proposal to apply to the CBC and refuse to register with all the Ukrainian national deputies who are not present today. This will be the very best illustration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u50	I see. Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Knazević, President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, you must remember that during a live broadcast, across Europe, the President said that today Ukraine is starting to implement the Agreement with the EU through appropriate adoption of the relevant bill. So the signal will be absolutely negative if we fail this bill at all. I realize there are no votes, I think they're already, unfortunately, and they won't show. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, given such an important situation, would you like to put to the vote the possibility of re-reading this bill so that we don't reject it, because if we reject it now, we won't be able to submit this bill at this session anymore. And this is going to be a very negative signal for Europe. So it's better to be able to work on it, and then we'll bring it back to the next session than to lose it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, we can't lose this project because we didn't even include it in the agenda. Now it was possible to put it into the agenda. I'll remind you that by the Rules we can include any number of times in the order of the day from this law, let's say, it doesn't disappear. At the same time, dear colleagues, it is important not only to include it but also to vote. That's why. Dear colleagues, let's read the Rules and then we'll discuss it. Please turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u53	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. I'm going to try to add another argument, except that this parliament can enter a history that has never fought corruption, supported corruption, and doesn't want to break up with corruption, another argument. If we don't now vote on this IMF bill, the IMF won't continue its support programme, let's say, our National Bank on Maintaining Course. And you're going to go, we're all going to go to the election, and they're going to ask, "Well, what have you national MPs done to make it easier for us to live so that the course doesn't affect our pensions, our wages?".. This is directly linked. Therefore, a great request, now to gather together, to feel the need for this step, to go through our infidelity and to vote for inclusion in the agenda, will be further worked out in the first and second readings. But this is a very important signal for the IMF and to support our course.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u54	Please, People's Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u55	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164th constituency, Ternopolish. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, the issue of anti-corruption law that we are about to adopt today is very important, and today in society it is necessary. Because when we communicate with people, we meet, and people talk about it all the time. We are stressed that we should immediately adopt those necessary laws in Parliament. Because the Anti-Corruption Bureau is now extremely important, which should be engaged, more faithfully, in investigating all these abuses and corruption schemes at a higher level of government. For today only rural heads, petty officials, are sought and persecuted, not investigating corruption among MPs, ministers, prosecutors, and other important officials. That's why we need it. The Anti-Corruption Bureau, it will be independent of a law enforcement system that will be able to deal with officials involved in corruption in the highest bodies. And that's why we have to vote on this law in Parliament today. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u56	Thank you. Zarubinsky, national MP, please. Colleagues, I'm giving each faction an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u57	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I'm looking at the MPs here, 95 or maybe 99 percent of those present vote. We are just reminding a teacher who is raising those schoolchildren who are in the classroom and who is raising the missing. Do you understand? And, I mean, we can talk a lot, but in principle, all of us are voting. I don't think it's a problem for those in the hall today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have another offer. No one's gone, no one's here. We have, let me remind you, no secret ballots now, we don't have a closed session of Parliament. And that's why, honourable colleagues, under this Anti-Corruption Act, on the Illustration Act, I'm going to print in the Voice of Ukraine all the names of national MPs who didn't vote in favour of these laws. And I'm going to ask you to make an extra issue of the paper so that everyone standing next to Parliament has this newspaper on their hands and they're looking at who's fighting corruption, who's fighting for illustration, who's trying to clean up power, and who's hiding from the Ukrainian people. Yes or no? Now, dear colleagues, that's exactly why I'm asking. Sit down and then say you weren't in the hall. Please take your seats. And now there's going to be a control vote for the publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, once again, please support the draft Law on the System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anti-Corruption (registration No. 5085). Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the session. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[17:05:50]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 69 - Fatherland, Region 5, Impact - 38, 24 - Economic Development, USM - 1, Sovereign European Ukraine - 17, Freedom - 35, non-fractional - 29. Dear colleagues, once again, I have done everything I can to support this law, the publication will be in "The Voice of Ukraine, do not be offended, all who did not vote, all of them. Please give the Chaplain a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u59	Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to make a suggestion that this newspaper should not be issued at the expense of taxpayers, ordinary people in particular from my Poltava, but rather at the expense of the salaries of those national deputies who were not here and who did not vote for it. Let's give it up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u60	Rudkov People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u61	Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you once again to put this question to a vote for what reasons. Today, hundreds of thousands of people don't get paid all over the country, and all people know one thing: it's because we have corrupts in government and administrative offices, it's because judges take bribes, it's because prosecutors and militias take bribes in places and there's no tool to control the clerk, it's today and it was before. I'm talking to the National Deputies, and now everybody's already started an electoral campaign, and we're all standing in front of people, and people are asking us every time, when do you overcome corruption in the power system? Let's start this process today. I am addressing you, Alexander Valentinovich, once again to put a question to the vote and to raise the necessary number of votes, regardless of opposition or power.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u62	Please, the Peace People's Deputy, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u63	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, all these laws that we are now trying to put in order of the day are derived from the main law, the law on illustration. And if we don't put it now, the whole nation will break up. We need to break this psychological barrier, vote on the Book of Illustration, and we will continue to vote. Because when there is a bill on illustration, then the anticorruption office votes, then all the laws that are needed are voted. And now we're trying to convince, first of all, members of the former coalition that we have to vote for the cleansing of power, so this has all been declared. Let's show a hundred percent vote like Freedom, and it's a beautiful law. But in our view, we have to start with the Book of Illustration Act, because, in fact, people are running out. And if we keep asking questions until the end of the day, we don't vote and there's gonna be trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am once again trying to enact a law on the system of specially authorized subjects in the area of anticorruption. Then we move on to the Illustration Law. No objections? There's no objection. Thank you. Please, Your Honor, this is the last time I'm going to vote. Support the inclusion in the agenda of the Law (Registration No. 5085) on a system of specially authorized subjects in the field of anticorruption. For the last time, I'm putting this question to a vote today. If you'll excuse me, I beg your pardon. Please vote. [[17:10:05]] For 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. For 72 Fatherland, Regions 8, Impact 38, Economic Development 26, SMS 1, all, Sovereign European Ukraine 17, Freedom 35, non-fractional 29. Dear colleagues! There's a proposal for us to be able to adopt the Book of Illustration Act, let's now adopt this law on the system of specially authorized subjects in the area of anti-corruption. We're going to support the short-term process of processing it, right, and now we're going to go to the Book of Illustration Act, is that the format that we're going to adopt? The only thing that 226 is borderline. Therefore, please mobilize, Your Honor, and support this law (5085) on the system of specially authorized subjects in the area of anticorruption in the first reading, in order to have it further developed by the next sessional week. Please, colleagues, please mobilize and support the first reading. Vote. Hurry up, Vitaly, you won't make it. [[17:11:28]] For 207 Dear colleagues! You can't do that. "for" - 207, no decision taken. The factions, please. 70 - Fatherland, Regions - 4, 38 - Impact, Economic Development - 14, SMS - 1, Sovereign European Ukraine - 15, Freedom - 35, non-fractional - 30. Dear colleagues! The first reading, I say again, first reading, there's something to work on that to work on for the second reading. Please, colleagues, we can. Eugene, we can, we can, I can see in front of you what we can. Please, Your Honor, return to the vote on this matter. Please don't destroy this law for me. Please, please return to the vote, wait, the main deputies are now in the workplace and we will support together, please vote. [[17:12:26]] For 203 Colleagues, 203, no decision taken. The factions, please. 70 - Fatherland, region 4, Impact 38, 12 - Economic Development, 1 - M.S., 13 - "North European Ukraine", 35 - "Freedom", 30 - non-fractional. Dear colleagues! I'm the only one talking to everyone, so we can take it on the first reading, right? Can we do it again? Let's do it again first. Colleagues, Eugene, are going to print everyone who hasn't voted. The poster at the Supreme Council will be written in red letters by all those who did not vote in favour of this law. Colleagues, all last names, please. Please, dear fellows, for a second reading. Please re-read, please support, colleagues. People's Deputy Dubyl, please go to your place of work, and we'll vote. Please reread the first reading, please support. [[17:13:46]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's not joke, because this is a serious question. The factions, please. 70 – Fatherland, 4 – Regions, 39 – Impact, 25 – Economic Development, 1 – SMS, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 16, 35 – "Freedom" – non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, two options -- we can now get to the illustration, and after the illustration, we can go back to voting for this law. Yeah? Yes. Okay. We're mobilizing, dear colleagues. Dear National Deputies! We're going to the Law on the Cleansing of Power, the so-called Lustration Act (registration number 4359a), now in general. I invite a representative of the working group because the parliamentary committee for the absence of a quorum has not made a decision. But the working group was working on this law and now the national deputy of Yemen. Table's on. A hand-in-hand table? Why? Colleagues, now the national deputy of Yemen will tell you about the table, please, illustrations, honourable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, on the table, the Supreme Council's apparatus will now print several dozen versions and distribute them to the faction leaders. Why didn't they make it? Because it only happened today. an attempt was made to hold a meeting of a committee of profile that did not have a quorum. So the honourable colleagues, first of all, today I want to report in the daytime was already asking this question for 16 hours. So all the deputies who are not present today in the Supreme Council Hall knew clearly that the Law on Illustration or what it is rightly called: At 16 o’clock in the evening, the cleansing of authority will be considered. And their absence today in the Supreme Council is their principle position that they want to prove to all and the Ukrainian people that they don't want to fight corruption, that they want to leave behind all those schemes and those corrupts that have been robbing the Ukrainian people for many years. It's their personal responsibility. Today, the Supreme Council is to pass this bill and personally determine who is responsible for the cleansing of Ukrainian power from corruption and who is against it. Now for the procedural points. Unfortunately, we will not have a decision of a professional parliamentary committee. Why? That's why the Supreme Council is going to restart today. Because "regionals" and communists are not what they refuse to be present to express their position and observations, but they generally refuse to go to committee meetings, thereby breaking the quorum. Three times at the request of Parliament’s leadership, David Zhuvania’s professional committee was extremely well assembled, and three times there was no quorum on it. So a decision has been made, and I am glad that the Supreme Council supports it, that the Supreme Council should consider this bill. I would like to inform you that a working group was formed where they were invited and worked from completely all the MP factions and groups, including the Party of the Regions, right, they were present at the first meeting, expressed their comments, and no longer appeared. But then a working group, along with representatives of the public, with experienced lawyers, worked out the Law on the Cleaner of Power, and I want to report that today, in the form that it is, it is absolutely in conformity with the Constitution, it can be implemented completely. And I call, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, on those people who are under the walls of the Supreme Council today, to adopt the Law on the Cleaner of Power, to ensure that there are no people in the Ukrainian government who have shown themselves to be corrupters, that judges in mantiacies, that converts in pursuits never, at least, are removed from the public trial for 10 years. We have young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u66	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u67	professional specialists who can provide reliable and efficient work for the government of the new Ukrainian, European, as we have proved today, Ukrainian state. That's why I'm asking you to support me. I will point out that those remarks that were made on the first reading of election positions were deleted. The Constitution provides for only five reasons why a person can travel to the Supreme Council. We can't make changes to the Constitution by law, it has to be a separate law. Therefore, these reasons have been removed. Those comments, which were made regarding the excessively wide range of individuals, were brought into line with existing legislation. And today the verification and declaration of material status applies exclusively to those who are members of the family and those who live together with the declarant. That's why I call you. The table will now be given to everyone. But I can assure you now that this bill is effective, it can ensure that the Ukrainian authorities are finally cleansed of corruption. On behalf of the entire Ukrainian people, I ask very much for your support. Jemmet Leonid. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking that the cameras show us where the Communists usually sit. You see, they were blown out of thin air as soon as we started looking at the Illustration Act. Look at how few people are left from the Party of Regions. They're also somehow this law, well, they can't feel and be present in the hall. There's only a few men I can see. Dear colleagues, this is a very important question. Now let's exchange thoughts. I want to say the next thing. Attention! I saw the chart, I got it today. The point is that the working group, despite the fact that the committee blocked the attempt to make a decision, worked. The working group had representatives of virtually all factions and a block of amendments had been worked out: the amendment of the tree, the Yemeni and the Bondarczuk — representatives of three different factions, non-fractional. And it is with these amendments that we can generally adopt this law. I ask now that we exchange our thoughts on this matter. Please, Sergey Pashinsky. I can see all the hands. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u69	Dear friends, I am a firm opponent in populism and pre-election legislative initiatives. But I had the opportunity to work with the task force, and I know the periphery of adopting this law. I know why he's still not in the hall. There's already a table, it's now being printed, there's a lot of amendments. But I want to tell all my colleagues that, thanks to the co-authors of the law, this law is now completely clear, transparent and does not conflict with the Constitution and is not discriminatory. This law will, indeed, allow for a calm, European cleansing of power and a illustration that is clearly matured. I'm asking you to support and assure you that no populism, no wild things that were still in the first reading, there's no more, it's completely read and ready for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u70	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u71	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Actually, as one of the co-authors of this bill, I would like to urge all of us now to mobilize as much force as possible and to vote in favour of this pervasive bill. The bill, which was created by various factions, by representatives of the public, is a great example of consensus here in Parliament. The fact that the Party of Regions and Communists blocked the meetings of the working group and the committee is not surprising, because they are afraid that they will be illustrated and historical justice will prevail. But we don't have to pay attention to that. We need to consider millions of Ukrainians, including those who go under the walls of the Supreme Council every time and require such approval of this law on illustration, on the cleansing of power. Let's take the right step and then we'll go to the polls, finish this Parliament's work with a bill that's voted on the illustration. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u72	Thank you. National Deputy Hermann, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! My position is not to be considered a pre-election pianist, because I am not going to the elections, but I have been and will be a clear and firm illustration. I'm just asking you not to give a picture of those professional people who worked in the Yanukovich government, but are now in office. Because they're really professional people. This is the military prosecutor who worked for President Yanukovich's Administration, this is the Minister of Economics, these are the other ministers. I'm asking you, these are professional people, don't give them the illustration, and we'll vote for the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u74	Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. Colleagues, I see all hands, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! I am one of the most disciplined MPs who voted in favour of this bill. I'm one of his authors, and I'm going to vote for him. But the illustration, it's for the MPs, it's an election. And here's the thing, one of the candidates who's obviously losing me, and my score is over 50 percent, ordered my beating at the Supreme Council. Those people who beat me, they don't know what they're doing, I forgive them. And the performer will be punished on October 26th when he disgraces my election. And the MPs would like to support this bill on the clearance of power.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u76	National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! As co-author of this bill, I must say that the work on it began in March, right after the victory of the Dignity Revolution. Lawyers, public figures, have broken a bunch of spears to argue about what it should be. But to date, we have come out on a perfectly normal, constitutionally-suited European level, in line with the Council of Europe's recommendations, a bill that is not a compilation of accounts that are not. Not for the purpose of punishment, but he needs to analyze and draw conclusions from each of the officials who worked. The MPs will go through the polls, but most of all, we need to check every officer, and this bill gives us this opportunity. I urge that we do this only and according to public demand by impulse.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u78	Please, National Deputy Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will certainly vote in favour of the bill. We fight to ensure that there is no corruption and that the authorities are honest. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, today we have gravely violated the Supreme Council Rules of Article 48 of Ukraine, and I officially object to the gross violation of the Supreme Council Rules during the vote in the closed plenary session of Bills 5081 and 5082. First of all, our rules do not provide for the possibility of voting through the Council system in secret. Moreover, on July 11, 12, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine admitted that secret ballots violated the principle of openness to the work of the Supreme Council. Thus, secret electronic voting in itself is not legitimate. I ask you to re-vote the bill that we are today, Alexander Valentinovich, you are in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u80	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko. I can see the hands. Dear colleagues, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u81	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Clearly, illustration and corruption are always at hand. I'm not going to say any puffish words. It's just that if you ask an average citizen in a village or a district, he'll tell you this: "There was Maidan, but in the cities in the areas, in the villages, there were officials from the previous government." We come to Earth's resources, and of us, the same thousands demand what the previous government demanded. We come to the Registration Service, to register pies, not 350 dollars more pies, but $500 more. We come to assessors for an inheritance, as thousands of us do, and they take it. Yeah, what's changing? If we don't answer now, if we don't vote in favour of the illustration, believe me, the next Supreme Council will last a year, because the next one won't vote either. They'll take it all if we don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u82	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin. Guys, I'll give you my word. Let's take five more minutes to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u83	I wanted to fix something for the previous speaker. If we do not adopt the law on illustration today, not the next Supreme Council, but at the next meeting of the Supreme Council, there will be dozens of people at the entrance of the Supreme Council, and perhaps hundreds of thousands of people who will demand of the Supreme Council to do what each of the deputies present here, on each of their venues, on the stage and on the anti-Majance, promised their electors first. The other one. I, of course, as co-author of this bill, which has passed an even more radical, more rigid bill, which would touch on the responsibility of all regimes, starting with Kravczuk, would like to have my vote voted. But our faction and all of us will support this consolidated document. But at the same time, I would also like to put to the vote a draft decree on the creation of a provisional commission of inquiry on criminal persecution and the responsibility of all without the exception of the previous presidents of Ukraine. Because they're the ones who spawned corruption, they destroyed our country, they disarmed it, and they made our simple Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u84	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Alexander Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u85	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Dear community! I mean, I was recently elected as a member of the Supreme Council. But I'm happy to go to the polls again. And what I heard a few months ago is clearly an absolute illustration of all branches of power, primarily the Supreme Council. So let's not engage in endless ossification, populism, but we're going to vote on the Illustration Act. And we're not going to go any further, and we're not going to keep misleading society. So maybe it's funny out there. But those who may find it funny should first have the illustration. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u86	National Deputy Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u87	Dear voters, dear colleagues! We have here, you see, for the sake of illustration, ready for anything. That's why we have to do this vote right now. It's true, there's no chart yet. But, honourable colleagues, but if without this fun that's somehow ruled in the hall, because the votes are not yet, you have to say that it's better to vote 2014 in favour of the illustration than to vote never. Because there are deputies in this room who have been offering illustrations since 1992. Ukraine would have gone a very different way. Now the situation is that the Germans have long since denaciated, the Poles have long since decommunized. And Ukraine still can't do the illustration. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u88	Let me finish, literally a few seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u89	So, Your Honor Alexander Valentine's Day, I clearly see your determination today to bring this matter to a vote. There's already a table in the room. All factions and groups had the opportunity to comment on the matter. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u90	Thank you. Come on, dear friends, two final performances. Labunsky, national MP. Colleagues, I can't give all the deputies a speech. I'm looking at a monitor, and I'm getting fewer deputies. Let's go for another half hour, and we'll have no one to vote on. So let's not ask questions. Let's have Labunsk, Jeremiah, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u91	Alexander Valentinovich, honourable of all deputies, I will surely vote in favour of these bills, and I call upon all my colleagues to vote. But I want to remind you and ask, Alexander Valentinovich, we owe society a bill on the prosecution. We still had to accept it in our second reading, and that was the European Union’s requirement. We already made a deal today. Such appointments are not easy, but they must be planted for corruption. And the second question. Let's not fool people. You call the Tax Reform Project 5079. Once again, you want to return the excise congregation. To prevent people from cheating, we need to vote on the Law on Illustration, then there will be no such bill as there is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, don't be distracted, let's make a decision by illustration, then we'll discuss other issues. Please, Jeremiah, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u93	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The "North European Ukraine" faction voted in favour of all the illustrative laws and will support it today. It's a historical law, it was supposed to be adopted 23 years ago when we got independence, and the communist tops slowly went into the democratic leadership of the state. But, Alexander Valentinovich, there are no votes in the room today. First. The other one. Comparative table: there is no right column. Where is the final text of the law? We can spoil any question. We ask that we give the right column so that we can vote consciously for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, as far as I'm concerned. Come on, stop, stop. Guys, calm down, please calm down. I now request a national deputy from Yemen or from Derivyanko. Let's do this, Yuri Derevyanko, he's right next to me, please, on the stand on the right column, and we'll make a decision. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I can't give my word to all deputies. Now, very briefly in terms of content and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, this law in relation to that law that was on the first reading, has changed very significantly to that side that all things that were contrary to our valid Constitution have been taken away. The point is that all elected positions such as deputies, such as those authorized by human rights, such as constitutional judges, are removed from this law. Little is meant to say that all the other standards that apply to the unlimited circle of so - called loved ones have narrowed themselves down to the family, to those living with each one of us. And we make a simple anticorruption declaration each year, indicating property and income only for those in the family who live with us and have a shared life. It is not enough that the law provides that in the case of a tax check on the conformity of property, a taxable person cannot make a decision without sending all observations to the official or the person conducting the check before giving a negative conclusion. And only in the light of the explanation and in the light of the person’s arguments is the final decision made. So the task force, I want to focus on this, which was composed of President Kniazewich Ruslan, representative of Fatherland, representative of Freedom, non-fractional. Very carefully, each step of the article was read. Therefore, it is now proposed that you consider this table exclusively a bill in the wording of the amendments: Germany, Derevyanco, and Bondarchuk. It is here that the bill is proposed to support. And, dear fellows, it is important for us today not only to have a historic day of what we have determined our way to Europe, but to make this day as historic as what we have really started changes, European changes in our state. And the responsibility for this today lies with each one of us, the responsibility for making these changes begin with this step. If there are any other important things or less important that need improvement, we will always be able to improve it. Please support this bill today in the drafting of the amendments: Yemen, Derivyanko, Bondarczuk and vote in general. This will be an important step in making Ukraine different and, indeed, European. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Got it. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to vote on this law. It's a really important historical question. And it is very symbolic that we will now try to vote on this law on the day we ratify the treaty with the European Union. This will be a cleansing of power in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I call on everyone to vote on this law. Please, dear fellows. Guys, calm down. I'll remind you that this is the second reading. Actually, the second time you read it, you don't get it. I went to a meeting with the deputies and gave many a chance to speak. So calm down, please. Dear colleagues, please! Please take your seats, prepare for the law. I'm not afraid, but the list that didn't vote will be printed. Please support the 4359a project, including the amendments made by the working group and introduced to this law by the national deputies Derevyanka, Jemec, and Bondarczuk. Please, Your Honor, vote. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[17:38:41]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions. Colleagues, we need to mobilize. 74 – "Paternal Development" – calmly, the Party of Regions – 3, "SHOOT" – 37, 18 – "Economic Development", the MMA – 1, "Several European Ukraine" – 17, "Freedom" – 35, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, we can vote. 217, we need more votes. Let's mobilize. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. Now let's do the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, if we don't vote for this law. And this law provides a civilized way of changing power. That's what the crowd will be saying. It's much worse, believe me. A civilized way of changing power is by adopting this law. If we do not do so, the crowd will speak. It's much scarier, I assure you. We vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u98	Please, Rudzkowski, National MP. For now, you'll be gathering deputies. Please, colleagues, find the men.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, when we meet with our constituents, they ask questions about the cleansing of power. Indeed, this law allows for the cleansing of authority in the form of a illustration. I think, Alexander Valentine's Day, we should vote today not only on the illustration, but on our way back to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. If, Alexander Valentinovich, honourable colleagues, we are not going to make a decision today about fighting corruption and forming the Anti-Corruption Bureau, we're going to have to do a clump again in 2-3 years, because we're going to tell the predecessors that they've already been removed from power, and we're going to have to remove the new ones. If we do not put in place a mechanism to fight corruption, the illustration will have to be given before every election.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u100	Thank you. National MP Pavlov, please. Then Peace and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u101	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished voters, distinguished national MPs! Well, first of all, I want to go to Mr. Yuri, the author of the bill, who really worked well on this bill, and we've talked to him about this a number of times. But, Your Honor, we just got one copy for each faction, 150 pages of amendments, how can we learn all this and accept what you don't understand? The second and the main. There are no national deputies in this room who would not be guilty of the situation that is now in the country. So first, assemble your deputies, not the ballots in the voting system, and then blame those present in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u102	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u103	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Looking closely at the people who are in the hall, I can see that there are a lot of active illustrators in the room right now, who are probably not supposed to be going to do the osmosis. But I want to tell you, on behalf of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, if we don't vote now, all those who are in love, we will personally illustrate. And believe me, it almost won't, it'll be the first time. Secondly, as in secret mode, please be ready to vote as in open mode -- no one is. Let's be honest with ourselves. Either those votes weren't fair at the time, or now we're voting for the illustration, there's no other choice. We gather, we vote, we don't vote, we go out to people, we answer. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, I see everyone insists on still voting the law. I'm asking you, let's focus now, colleagues, sit in our jobs. We're maximizing Parliament's ability, I'm addressing every MP, because I know what I'm saying, I'm asking everyone who's present in this room to vote for this law, to take responsibility, eventually, to take responsibility, I want to say again, for the country. And those MPs, regardless of the outcome of the vote that don't take part in the vote, will know the whole country, I promise you, Your Honor, the whole country will know the MPs who broke today's session without voting in favour of this law. So please, dear fellows, let's sit in our seats, prepare for the vote, we can vote, I feel it. Please, colleagues, we're all just voting, all of us. Please return to the question of the draft Law (4359a). Please, Your Honor, vote. [[17:44:07]] For 225 The decision is not taken. One voice is missing. We're not going to make a decision, let's mobilize, dear colleagues. One card didn't work, let's let the cards work. Please, fellow Members, carefully, the country is all looking at the Ukrainian Parliament now, let us take the responsibility to vote, please, my fellow Members. Jura, take your seat. Please sit down. We're voting now. Please, please, colleagues. Please, vote, return to this question, support, Jura, vote. [[17:45:03]] For 226 Decision taken. And immediately without chilling in general, immediately in general, please, fellow believers! On the basis and in general, we vote. Colleagues, in second reading and in general, we vote. [[17:45:30.]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions. Colleagues, I don't know, there's a possibility, there's a potential. 69, Fatherland. Who Was Scared? Region Party 4, Impact Party - 33, 19 - Economic Development, Peace and Stability - 1, Sovereign European Ukraine - 15, Freedom - 35, non-fractional - 26. Colleagues, system failures, there are problems in the work of deputies. Please, colleagues, we're not leaving this room until we vote, close the door. Colleagues, please ask Hanna Herman not to be able to vote, please insert the cards to make it. Please come back to this question, colleagues, we can. Please return to this question, please vote. [[17:46:39]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you know who's voting with us is 226 votes. Fellows, who's got a shaking hand? Who's got a hand shaking? Call everyone to the hall. Colleagues, let's not break up until we make a decision. I want to say again, colleagues, attention, attention. Dear colleagues, I want you to call your colleagues again. I don't have time to make a phone call. I say again, let's not break up until we make a decision. I mean, dear friends, it's not intimidation -- it's an argument that everyone who voted we print and those who didn't vote will also print, and we'll give that position to each district. Ladies and gentlemen, may we vote? We can. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u105	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Alexander Valentine's Day, I have information for everyone, and then an offer. Information for those who are now playing nerve games in the population: it inserts a card, it removes. The street of Gruszewski is covered with Ukrainian patriots with tires and weapons, and if this bill is not voted today, I'm afraid there will be a completely different argument. [[B in m in s a l in]] And here's the proposition: today we're not going to accept this bill -- no one's breaking up. I'd like to vote on it the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u106	My colleagues, I'm the only thing I'm asking you not to be afraid of, not the tires, but simply to turn to my conscience, my conscience, my responsibility, and therefore to vote, not for fear, but for responsibility for the country, a huge request. Give the Marine People's Deputy of Luhansk your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you. I have always fought corruption and fought today, fighting today with the corruption Cabinet of Ministers openly without fear. I voted for the illustration, I voted for all anti-corruption laws. Well, you can't vote like that, you can't replace a righteous cause with a shuller, you can't vote with your cards. You can't, in the name of the light, turn it into some kind of despot, well, you can't be shulers. I call on you to be the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u108	Colleagues, I support, you have to vote with your cards. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u109	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, think about today, why Ukraine has been in this post - Soviet swamp for so long. But because every step that other countries have taken, we go through with such pain, with such tension, with such difficult steps literally. Today we are back, let it be gentle, let it even cool off some of this agreement of ours, but today a step has been taken. Well, what else do you need today? Let's press all the buttons that there is! Well, we have to accept this bill. The Czechs passed it in the first place, in the second year, the Poles passed it in the same way. After 23 years of the existence of an independent Ukrainian state, we are unable to do so today! They're running, they're afraid, they're not, they're imitating, they're catching cards. Who are we with if we are unable to vote for this law?Oh, my God! Stand up, Alexandre Valentinovich, doki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u110	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Gruszewski. I'll give you my word, draw up the people, your respectable colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, society today needs this law. And if this law reduces tension and makes it possible to unite the whole country, it needs to be voted on. The other thing is the quality of this bill. 400 rights say that this bill is inconclusive. But we have to accept it today. And most importantly, how this law will work and be done. If he is not executed, people will be gathered again, and it is likely that not these national deputies will adopt a new law on illustration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u112	Thank you. National Deputy Vaschuk. Now, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, when we voted in favour of the ratification of the Treaty today, all of them remembered that there would be protection of the rights of citizens, that the citizens of the State would finally feel equal rights, whatever they might be. And this law that we must now vote on is a guarantee that ordinary citizens will be able to find the truth; that they can trust the authority over which the law of illustration will hang as an ax, as a sword that will cut off the hands of unclean people, and will deprive themselves of the ability to act in such a way that the people today do not believe in power. That's terrible. That's why we vote "yes"!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u114	Please, National Deputy Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u115	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to inform you that that's why there are 400 rights in the second reading of this law, because all the proposals and observations made by all the MPs interested in this bill have been taken into account. What's more, for those MPs who are afraid of something, there may be some indecision to press the button right now and vote in favour, I want to inform you that this law, comparing, by the way, other laws of Eastern Europe, is quite loyal. And if we don't vote today in favour of this version of the law on illustrating the cleansing of power, tomorrow we have to vote for maybe a more stringent law, especially the one proposed by Freedom is much more severe. Vote, Your Honor, for this softer version and the issue of social need, and the requirements will be met. We vote in favour of the Book of Illustration Act. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u116	Dear colleagues! Please, please. I'm looking at the monitor, we don't have an increase in the number of deputies. I'd like the faction leaders to invite everyone. Anyone who has a responsibility to the country so that we can make a decision. I'm asking the secretariat to make another announcement for everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, let's sit in our jobs. I am convinced that when everyone in the room fulfills their patriotic duty, we will get the result. Dear colleagues, come on. We're getting ready to vote. Please prepare for the vote. I say again, let's not get involved. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please, dear fellows. Please take your seats. I'm voting on the proposal to return to Project 4359a. Colleagues, carefully, we work without mistakes, without mistakes. Let's work together to support the project's return to consideration of Project 4359. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[17:56:00]] For 231 Decision taken. And immediately, not relaxing, to be received in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, this is a historic moment! – vote, please. [[17:56:24]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you! Thank you, Your Honor. By factions, let's not break up, friends, please don't break up. Parenthood – 77, Party of Regions – 10, 38 – Impact, 18 – Economic Development, 1 – Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, 35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, please immediately, 5085 is a draft of the Law on the System of Specially Authorized Subjects in the Field of Anti-Corruption. Please take your seats. Please come back to this question, dear colleagues. It's all together. Dear colleagues, please return to this question. Please vote, 5085, fight corruption. [[17:57:24]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions. 69 - Fatherland, Party of Regions – 7, Impact – 37, 19 – Economic development, 1 – MMA, "North European Ukraine" – 18, "Freedom" – 35 – non-factional – 26. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time, let us try to vote on this Law. Colleagues, pay attention. Please be supportive. Those authorized to fight corruption will be fighting corruption first and foremost in the prosecutor’s office, respected colleagues. So let's support 5085 one last time. We've done so much today, dear colleagues, but let's put a dot on this: a return to this question. Please, my friends, please vote back to this question. [[17:58:24]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, me. [[Noise Nodes]] Please come to the microphone, please. People's MP Packan, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! This Supreme Council is yet to adopt the law on internally displaced persons in its first reading today. We owed it to those people. I want to stress that we now have about 250,000 people of our citizens who need our help. I'm asking everyone to organize and I'm ready to report as head of the committee on this legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u118	Very short. In the laws. Dear colleagues, who are you talking about, Valera?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u119	Legislative act 4490a and 4490a-1, which worked together in the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations with the Staff of the Office of the United Nations, the OSCE, and the Public Action Organization, followed the law on internally displaced persons. These are the citizens who are now in need of our state's help. We left our citizens behind for four months. I ask today, in the first reading, to vote in favour of this bill so that this Supreme Council will still adopt this bill in a second reading at the next plenary session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-16-m1.u120	Dear colleagues! All I understand is the desire to accept it now. But I'm looking at the monitor and I see there's no way to vote now. Colleagues, prosecutors, and other laws. I see we've got less than 226 cards now. We can agitate each other right now. But I'm not a magician. I can, when 226 votes, do 226. And when 224, I can't do 226, dear colleagues. Therefore, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, thank you all for your work. We are adjourning today's meeting of the Supreme Council. Good-bye.
