ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. I hope that the Supreme Council will continue its fruitful work. And now. Dear colleagues, one moment. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, I just see that we have a lot of vacant seats and the Supreme Council isn't ready to make very responsible decisions yet. I ask the factions to turn to their deputies and call them to the hall. Dear colleagues, it will be a pity that important issues will not get enough votes just because there is no discipline in factions, groups and non-fractional ones. Dear colleagues, you and I have not been able to consider the draft Law (No. 2421) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the sustainability of strategic energy enterprises. Please. Dear colleagues, the authors of the law, ready to report? Ready. Please, the head of the fuel and energy subcommittee of the Bandur Vladimir Volodymyrovich complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the sustainability of strategic energy enterprises. Today, one of the acute problems with the fuel-energy complex is paying off the debt for electricity. So in order to illustrate the situation, I'm going to say that only the amounts of the receivable of the Energy Company before the NAEC "Energot" DP are almost 6 billion dollars. The bill proposed to you is, among other things, to postpone the calculation date, a date on which each participant has fixed the amount of credit and receivables to repay it as of 1 January 2013, which will give impetus to the start-up of Ukraine's business accounts and improve the financial and economic state of the enterprises of the participants in the accounts. The bill also proposes to continue the procedure set out in the above-mentioned law for the repayment of debts by companies of the fuel and energy complex and to continue to halt the bankruptcy proceedings of such enterprises until 1 January 2016. So actually, we're going to continue the moratorium for two more years. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Security has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill to be adopted as a basis. According to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the project meets the requirements of anticorruption legislation. In view of the position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which generally support the bill, it is necessary to take into account the following technical observations. First. Subparagraph 1 (1) of Section I of the draft law should be drafted as follows: the second sentence of paragraph 1.8 of Article 1 should read as follows: "The accounting date is set on 1 January 2013 and the second sentence of paragraph 1.8 of Article 1 shall read as follows: "The calculation date is set on 1 January 2013 and for the time-consuming enterprises, including those which were the time-consuming status on 1 January 2011 for the payment of electricity on 1 July 2011. The other one. Subparagraph 2 of Section 1 of Section I of the draft Law should be inserted in the next edition. Paragraph 3.4 of Article 3 reads as follows: "The procedure for repayment of debt by undertakings of the fuel and energy complex is in effect until 1 January 2016." Third. Section I, paragraph 2, of the draft Law, will be printed in the next edition. In section X, paragraph 4.1, of the Act on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor by Bankruptcy, the words and figures "by 1 January 2014" are replaced by the words and figures "by 1 January 2016". Taking this into account, please accept the bill in the first reading and in general as a law with regard to amendments, and entrust it to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its editorial and technical legal work before signing it to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? No questions asked. Ladies and gentlemen, before we sign up for the factions and the MPs, let's register the national MPs and see how many deputies are now ready to work in the hall. Please turn on the "Race" system, run the registration. [[16:09:11]] There were 267 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that we have 450 national deputies beyond the Constitution. I ask the secretariat to keep a clear register of the people’s advocates for their constitutional duties. And those MPs who aren't ready to do these duties, ask questions about how to get paid, and in the future, I think, your fellow Members, we're going to consult you on what to do with MPs who can't work during the day. Dear colleagues, please register for factions. Please register. National Deputy Stojko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, please pass the word to Mikola Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u5	Please turn on the microphone of Ukrainian national MP Mikoli Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u6	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, what's happening in the session room is absolutely proof that next week we all need to have a field meeting in Maidan. I would like those national deputies who refuse to work to explain to people why they avoid their direct duties, what they do at work instead of sitting in Parliament and making critical decisions. I'm sure Alexander Valentinovich has something to do with it. I suggest, given that now, well, you see, half the session room is just working. Gather the faction leaders and consult on the future work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This should not be the case, what is happening today in the hall is that people find their own occupations, but not what they are provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. The Fatherland faction insists that you, Alexander Valentinovich, gather the faction leaders and have a specific conversation about the future parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u7	Thank you for the offer, Mikola Dmitrovich, for sure I will. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to make a statement on the content of the law. National Deputy Twin, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u8	I'm asking you to pass the word to my colleague Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u9	Please turn on the microphone of the people's representative Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u10	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! On 1 January 2014, the repayment procedure set out in the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure a Permanently Functioned Fuel and Energy Complex Enterprise ended. The industry will therefore lose the protection mechanism against bankruptcy proceedings and arrest of their assets. Thus, state-owned enterprises of the fuel and energy complex have become at the forefront of the harshest financial situation that threatens their further stable work. The Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex and Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 9 October 2013, considered this bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the stable functioning of strategic energy industries. That is why the rapporteur has already said here, I would like to ask my colleagues, all of them, to support this bill today, which will stabilize the work of the fuel and energy complex, you know, in our economic situation, it is very important. I therefore ask that the bill be adopted as a whole. I thank you for your attention and very much ask all deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u11	Please, National Deputy Yatzenko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, indeed, as it were, we respect our colleagues who passed this law. But what do we have today? A huge budget deficit, a huge hole, and we're essentially proposing, in fact, to continue the period of payment of tax debts. So what if, on the one hand, we're giving the opportunity, we're collecting money, we're taking loans, and so on, on the other hand, we're restructuring debt, which is, for example, I realize that the energy sector is very important, but other companies are paying taxes, and we're not doing it for pharmaceuticals, for polygraphs and so on, for any field. So it seems to me that here we have to deal with this issue so that we don't continue to create such a "me" tax facility, where we just cheat all our debts and so on. So my proposal, after all, is to look at this law very carefully and work out, and determine what position in the government, in the Ministry of Finance, by the way, and then make a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u13	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u14	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that the subject of the legislative initiative, the national deputy of our colleague Bandurov, is well aware of this issue. And when he proposed the standards of this bill, these legislative innovations, we were very careful at the committee meeting on the fuel and energy complex of nuclear safety and nuclear policy. And they came out first of the fact that today's stable work of strategic energy enterprises is not just a matter of the energy sector. In large numbers, without any paphos, but I would like to point out that if energy companies, Ukraine's energy capabilities, are not going to work in a stable way right now, this is already a matter not only of energy security but of Ukraine's national security. It's easier today to theorize and say that there's another term and something else going on. If we were to live in a warm environment, in a vacuum, we could agree with some of the previous statements about tax matters and everything else. But we're living in real conditions, in real conditions, and for today, I think the country needs not theorization at all, but really energy companies need to continue to work. To avoid being tempted by anyone, either to bankrupt them, or other people, or to take advantage of the bankruptcy of energy companies in the energy sector. According to a large account, when the June 23 law was passed in 2005, it was called a reminder of measures aimed at ensuring the continuous operation of the fuel-energy complex. So the legislator came out of the fact that, until now, in fact, the energy complex was to a certain extent, and that's true, it helped both industry and agriculture. How did he help? Not only has the tariffs been and today been completely unwarranted, but everyone who understands these areas is well aware of it. But also because he actually gave the product from the beginning, and then took the money, which is the basic procedure, when first the money, and then the chairs, and then not the other way around, in this case it didn't occur. So I think these proposals from my colleague Bandurov are about positive things, about the things that are needed. Besides, I'd like to add to what he's saying, they're going to contribute indirectly, in some ways and directly, to the liberalisation of the electricity market. With what? By bilateral agreements, by moving to a balanced market.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u15	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u16	I believe that, despite some of the cautions and claims of my colleagues, this bill should be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u18	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka faction, 144th constituency, Poltava. Of course, there is a problem, but I am convinced that the solution to this problem should be comprehensively proposed by the new government of Ukraine. In doing so, we need to make it clear that by giving some preferences or other steps towards restructuring, including debt, we should by no means allow other key areas of the Ukrainian economy to be discriminated against — agriculture, tourism, and others. Therefore, our political power believes that we have the moral and professional right to consider such bills only in the context of the proposed reforms of complex, systematic reforms by Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, which we have been waiting for for weeks. Then we can clearly say that reforms in Ukraine will not be done at the expense of the common people. The moral right of someone to cheat or restructure debts is solely after the government begins to fulfill its promises. And we know that there are currently 6 and a half thousand judges in Ukraine, 28,000 employees of the BSS, 240 prosecutors per 100,000 population, which is the first place in Europe. And almost every one of them has not yet passed the illustration that we talked about. You can't reform in white gloves and glasses. We need to work hard on these issues, and those promises made from Midan’s scene must be fulfilled immediately. Personally, I will not allow an increase in tariffs or other things for the inhabitants of my Poltava region until promises have been made in the part of the restarting, illustration and proposed a new, completely professional, integrated approach to reforming the national economy. We will do everything with our fellow citizens in the Poltava region, not at the expense of the common people of Poltavščina, but at the expense of those oligarchs and their offshore offshore offshores that they hide, they also receive assignments, a sign of appointment in key regions of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u19	Thank you. People's MP Pankevitch, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u20	Please give my word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u21	Please turn on Alexander Mirny’s microphone, or please speak from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u22	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The question that we are discussing is, unfortunately, it passes from year to year from one Supreme Council to another. I want to remind those who have forgotten that the first law of this kind has been passed, think! – June 23, 2005. And in the meantime, we're with you or our "separators," sorry for that word (unfortunately, Ukrainian language will soon be limited in use, because there are words we can't use anymore), did nothing to get the branch out of the situation it's in. We keep stressing that we can't push the problem deep, that we can't put cosmetics on a sick person's face, that we have to make decisions that will get the situation out of the way, at least, even if it's not harmful. Unfortunately, we don't hear each other. Unfortunately, we keep catching up. And again, we can see that unfortunately, government management is ineffective. For probably objective reasons. We have to figure this out. We need to know why this is happening. We should, if you'll excuse me, order the guilty. We need to know what we're going to do next, because as long as we're with you guys today, we don't even know the list of enterprises -- the list of enterprises, I emphasize -- that fall under this or another moratorium law. Who in the hall can say how many of these enterprises are cut in branches? Nobody. And we're chomping, gamous, making decisions to do it. Yeah, it's a tough situation. Yes, indeed, today we must vote in favour of this law. Clearly, we will support him. But, Your Honor, let's stop. Come on! As soon as we vote in favour of this law in the first reading, let us now make suggestions on what to do next. Because we can't keep stalling this process. And I also call on the Party of Regions, where are the masses of people who are dealing with this issue, and most of them are united. Let's show an example of what we have to do, because the revolution is a revolution and life is not stopped. And businesses work. Or they can't work, including because of our inaction. We therefore propose to uphold the law in the first reading, but I warn you that for the next year Freedom will not vote in favour of such a bill and we have little time with you to remedy this situation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u23	Thank you. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u24	Dear friends! Goncharov, 51st District. I am asking you on behalf of our working groups, including coal miners, to do the following. This bill does not in any way restructure those debts that have arisen in our enterprises. The only discussion was that appropriate debt repayment schedules had been drawn up between creditors and receivables. And this debt is declining today, but these two laws: on business stability and bankruptcy, their duration ended on 1 January 2014. Today only needs to be extended to ensure that our fiscal authorities are not able to arrest financial accounts and start the bankruptcy process. I'm talking to everyone! Dear friends, dear colleagues, let us support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u26	It will enable many working groups, including the coal industry, to work. In doing so, it will enable our Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to develop and implement measures that will enable all our enterprises to achieve financial balance. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u27	Please, National Deputy Mishchenko of the Non-Factions. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u28	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I want to remind you that last year we put this law to a vote, and there weren't enough votes. And I remember all the routines of the day when Arbuzov and everyone else sat there when he was pushed to vote. And then I said, "Dear, please give me a list of who did this restructuring, who paid off the debt, who pays the taxes, and who doesn't do two tables." And then we'll know clearly who was doing their duty, who was paying taxes, who was doing those debts to the state, who was stealing, who was working on their pockets, who was taking those money offshore. And everything will immediately become clear. So, frankly, I don't understand why there's positive anti-corruption expertise. It can't be like that. If we saw two different businesses, one enterprise that pays everything, all the taxes and provides the budget, and the other doesn't pay, and we didn't check it out, without having to carry out audits on these fuel-energy enterprises after that authority, without showing where they spent their money, how they made money. And we're giving them a chance to keep doing that. Why not prepare for today. And that's not my basic opinion. You read science and expertise, the same thing says I said a year ago. It's about preparing for these kinds of bills. We need to show the people and the people behind these fuel-powered enterprises and who's behind them. We don't understand that in the last few years after the Janukovich presidency, who was behind him, behind these fuel-powered, who was collecting money, where the huge corruption itself was, who was bringing it out. And we're still giving them these preferences, a chance? I honestly don't understand how you can accept such bills from a shoelace. So I think this is a question that needs to be put off. Share, indeed, all information with the national MPs. Conduct normal anti-corruption expertise and then make decisions. But for that decision, well, I'm definitely not going to vote so that one of the oligarchs can still get this money out of the country and offshore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u29	National MP Anatolia Grizzenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u30	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the question here is, who would benefit from this? Of course, it's not for the country, it's not for the people, it's not for the people, it's not for the budget, it's for the billionaires, the oligarchs, the owners of these enterprises. That's clear to everyone. They're people who, if they say they've gone bankrupt, they've been in parallel all this time since 2005, and now they've been buying $100 million worth of property, buying football clubs, other candies. These companies were completely not transparent, and from the point of view of tariffs, prices, and taxes, they're all offshors. It's a private business! So the key features of this project are opacity, manual mode, and corruption. The government did not provide a list of enterprises, nor did the government report on the debts that had been written down for a year. This project cannot be accepted by a new command. Which now speaks of transparency. I'm asking you to take it off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, you can take it off the table, not support it, or, by accepting it, support it. So please, the hall needs to be defined now. I am voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the sustainability of strategic energy enterprises (project number 2421a). Please identify yourself by voting on the adoption of this law in the first reading, I emphasize, in the first reading. Please vote. [[16:32:07]] For 203 The decision is not taken. What a proposal from the committee, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please head of the committee. By factions, please show me. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm asking as head of the committee, what's the offer? Turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u32	Alexander Valentine's Day, request for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the committee to re-read. And I asked to take into account in the preparation of this project the proposal of the Mishchenk National Deputy to analyse those enterprises that reduce debt and those that systematically increase debt from each law to every law. So with this proposal, can we reread it first? We can. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:33:24]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Honorary colleagues, the next issue to be discussed in the Supreme Council, is the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to the coastline of water objects for general use. I understand this has to do with both the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and many other regions in connection with our periods, including our summer vacations. Please, Mr. Martinks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, Ruslan Marcinkov, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. The adoption of this bill will allow the illegal restriction of Ukrainian access to the coastline of water objects, particularly beach areas in the occupied Ukrainian Crimea, and not only to the extent that it is adopted. This bill is the implementation of a programme for the protection of Ukrainians of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom and the expectation of millions of our citizens, namely, to ensure the State's equal rights for all citizens and the same observance of the law by all citizens, regardless of their level of wealth or ownership of power. Prepared before the occupation of the Crimea by Russian invaders, but supported by the profile committee, the previous ministry, and the present, but without justification, was not included in the agenda of the previous sessions. The bill deals with such a sensitive issue as the free access of citizens to the seashore. A law that has been defiantly and unpunished for many years has been violated by local self - proclaimed feudals for the shameful inaction of law enforcement agencies. This problem has become a social problem, especially at places of mass relaxation on the coasts of the Black Sea and the Azova Seas, on the shores of Dniper, Right, and others. Crime is the most acute problem. Self - control, payment for entry into beach areas is contrary to article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 47 of the Water Code of Ukraine, which guarantees the right of citizens to access the shores of water free and free of charge. The proposed bill prohibits restrictions on the general use of water in connection with the provision of coastal protection strips, beach zones, at least 100 meters [100 m] in the use of legal or physical persons. It also foresees that an obstacle to such access is a reason to stop using these lanes. The project prohibits the setting up of fences or other structures that prevent citizens from accessing the waterfront. A mechanism has also been set up to dismantle such fences or other structures at the expense of their owners, the persons who installed them. The project allows implementing local councils and local government administrations to ensure that citizens have free and free access to the waterfront for general use. The bill provides that fences or other structures established before the law becomes effective and prevent citizens from accessing the waterfront are to be dismantled within 2 months of the date of entry into force of the law. I call on all deputies to support this law in the first reading. His acceptance will be an important step towards the restoration of justice and the rule of law in Ukraine and will be a positive signal for the return of the Ukrainian Crimea. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u35	Thank you. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. Please hold the recording. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I think everyone really understands what this bill is about. By the way, it's not the first time they've made such proposals, but they're so soft, subtle, but they're always hiding. I think it's understandable why they're hiding. Because so many objects are related not only to the Crimea but also to the Dnipro Rivers and other rivers in Ukraine where the population that has been living there for generations cannot reach the water. Usually, by the way, it's a rural population. And I think this bill is very timely in the background of talking about justice, social justice and so on, because justice is not abstraction. Justice is when I, he, can get to what is national acquisition and property, not what is fenced with five-meter walls, not what is done to use just top leaders or top people as they think they are. In fact, there is much in Ukrainian legislation to punish for such things. But there has been a pattern of different governments for many years that this problem does not exist. So it seems to me that the Martínkov bill should be supported both in the first reading and in general. And the main thing is that it needs to be done immediately, and people have to have free access to what belongs to people, not individuals. Once again: very much attention to the Dnipro River within Kiev, within the Kyiv region and across the Dnipro River, and not just the Crimea River, is a self-room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u37	Thanks for the offer. Please, Paul Rosenco, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u38	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u39	Please turn on Sergio Kaplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u40	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavian District, 144 constituency. This problem is extremely relevant to the whole country, especially to my Poltavšina. And I'd like to say very briefly, and very constructively, I'd like to say three digits. Millions of Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian people, you need to know two standards of legislation. First: Article 13 of the Constitution, which states that the nadra water and natural resources belong to you, citizens of Ukraine. Article 47 of the Water Code, which states that all of these are free of charge. And the third number is my direct mobile number, 0675407096. And if anyone doesn't know the first two, contact us, hit me directly, and I'm the judges, the prosecutors, who aren't covered by the new authority, I'm going to teach these two norms, and we're going to give you back the clean coast of green, and everything else that you belong to, under the Constitution and given by the Lord God. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u41	Thanks for the show. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, I like this bill very much. But as a lawyer, I'm going to say specific things that I like. The author proposes that article 47 of the Ukrainian Water Code be supplemented by such sentences. I will quote: "No restrictions on general water use are allowed, particularly the prohibition of bathing and swimming on boats in connection with the provision of land, coastal protection lanes, the beach area of use by legal or physical persons." It is right and not just for those living near the Dnipro River. This applies to all water use, water resources. I love the addition of article 88 of the same Ukrainian Water Code to the Coastal Protection Strips. I'll quote, "The obstruction of passage along the sea, the bay of the sea, or the lemon, including by setting up fences or other structures, or paying for it is a reason to stop the use of the beach zone." Now let's look at Ukraine. Is there a problem? There's a problem. This bill provides a mechanism to solve this problem? He's giving And I also like the addition to the Code of Administrative Offences. I will also quote, what is currently in force is not: "The restriction on free and free access of citizens to the seashore, sea coves, lemons and islands in inland sea waters, within the beach zone, as well as to the coastline of rivers, waterways and islands for general use, in addition to the cases provided for by law, entails the imposition of a fine on citizens ranging from 10 to 30 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens and on officials, which is very important, from 30 to 50 untaxed minimum incomes of citizens." There are some shortcomings here, they're technical-legal, but they're easy to fix. I would urge the people's supporters to support this very important bill for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sabay, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u44	Please pass the word to Alexander Oxentiyovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u45	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Alexander Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u46	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction supports this bill and will vote for it, but I would like to pay attention to the fact that we cannot correct the Water Code, the Earth Code, or environmental legislation all the time. The point is that, for example, the Earth Code provides for protective land strips on the banks of rivers and other waters, for example, on the shores of the sea, up to two kilometres, on the banks of small rivers up to 25 meters, medium rivers 50 and so on. That is, we had to follow legislation before, we mean land, water, or environmental, and we didn't allow what had already happened. The Marzenkowa Bill deals with free passage into the water and the removal of fences or fences, other structures. Under construction, it is not clear what is meant. I would like to point out that a huge number of buildings have been built on the banks of rivers, seas, and other waters. This is strictly forbidden. And actually, these land strips are passed on to private property, because they're fenced. Hence, it is not necessary to go back to law enforcement, and our prosecution should monitor this and correct the shortcomings that have arisen. What's more, I'll say, on the banks of the rivers, there's a large production of stones on the same Buzi, which is strictly forbidden by our legislation, environmental in particular. But this kind of mining continues, and no one is actually monitoring compliance with legislation. That's why I think we need to vote in favour of this bill, but we need to keep an eye on existing legislation for the future, so that we don't specifically adopt changes to bring this legislation to a standstill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u47	Thanks for the show. Please, Pavlovsky National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u48	Andrew Pavlovsky. Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u49	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u50	Thank you very much. I want to draw attention to the very importance of this bill. And everyone who calls for you to read the Constitution and why the laws were not enforced, I want to tell you that, personally with the people I live with in the garden society in Vystrod, two and a half years together with the environmental prosecutor's office, we are reflecting the violation of the mayor of the town of Vyshtětnjak, who is going through the illustration in the town of Vystěgrad tomorrow on the question that he's closing the exits to the river. They're not big houses, they're little gardens, but none of the people have the opportunity to go out to the river today, because they're giving to the rich. And what I'm saying is that violations of these laws don't last long. We have to bring to justice all the judges that we are two and a half years old, and not just us, I know how many people are addressing these questions and across Ukraine should go to the illustration. For example, in front of our Highgarden, a garden society, there is such an Achanite woman. When I looked where the land had been given to that Canaanite woman, she was given to her cattle. The bastard's not there-- the cattle live there, the cattle that have completely shut down the entrance to the water and ride motorcycles and boats when they just can't get into the river. And so I think this bill is very important, but it needs to be strengthened by reviewing the cases and complaints that were before the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u51	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lazko. Then the National MP Mishchenko. And we're going to risk it under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters! I want to tell you that a lot of people who are sitting in this room today will end up at 18th -- and they'll go to the woods, to the river, to the water, and they'll sit there and talk about how they care about free access to natural resources. I'm asking in a new power: why is it still not a decision to close the communist oasis: Conchi Sleep, Desert Water? Why do government officials, former, present - day, live in government houses at the expense of government bills, breathe in the woods, walk private beaches, and take these opportunities for simple children? A neighbor of Vasilkov, 30 kilometers from Kiev There's a stinking maggot in there, Nana. Two acres [two ha] of the Stugna River were taken away, a restaurant was set up there, and the moose warmed itself. Normal people can't get there. And so are the baboons and the Mazepa, and the Concha-Sasleep -- which city you don't come to, where it's all fenced up, everything's all taken away and so on. There's no legislation? We've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u54	Let the wise man know! (Noise in the hall) Thank you. And they're laughing, I understand, those who lack intelligence. There's no legislation? We have legislation. There's no conscience. And there's no responsibility. And that's why I need to support this bill, but I'm going to show you my own example: I'm going to sit on my own bulldozer and I'm going to tear down a canopy in Concha-Sleep or a dam near the river to make it difficult for others. And I call on President Turkinov to immediately close state houses, state sanatoriums, state-owned fertilizers, where the darmoids sit and do nothing at the expense of the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u55	Thank you. Report, Oleg Valeriovich. Oleg Valeriyovich! I report that the decree I have signed on the sale of all residences, state grants to improve the budget of Ukraine and that neither the President nor the President himself need these houses, these mansions, these palaces. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u56	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Respectable citizens of Ukraine and respected colleagues! Obviously, we were late with this law for 10 years when there were no fences, when we hadn't taken the land by the rivers, when we weren't suddenly doing "25 meters", "100 meters" to the coastal lanes. But now the question is, God willing us to accept it as a whole. Why am I talking about this? Because 98 of my district is Dnipro from Osokorków to the beginning of the Cherkas region. And I have hundreds of references to the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district, which is in the Borispoli district as Prosecutor of the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki district, the Borispoli district, the Kiev district attorney, the Kiev environmental prosecutor, now as Environmental Minister, again, and to the Attorney General. I ask you, the drafters of the bill, to have your one-party look at them now and make appropriate legal decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we determine how to vote? Everyone in the talks supported the law. It is vital that during the vote everyone also supports it. It's not just to be supportive of words. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to adopt as a basis, i.e. in the first reading, the Bill (No.3059) on amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to the coastline of water objects for general use. I would like all the national MPs to support this project by voting. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Vote, dear friends! [[16:53:11]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 3, Parenthood 63, Impact 20, Economic Development 17, Sovereign European Ukraine 22, Freedom 32.0 Company, Non-factional 31. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to do so. There have been several performances. I don't get it. Everyone's been there, and as a result, there's a three-vote party of the region. The communists, of course, probably have all the dishes near the watersheds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u58	A list of who didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u59	We will publish a list of those who did not vote, honourable colleagues. But it's a very bad law. I'd like to, come on. I'd like a car, Mr. Marcinchev, to speak with you about the offer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u60	Dear Chairman, I'll ask you to re-send the first reading. After all, most of the room supports this bill. I hope that when we do it and bring it into the hall, there will be more deputies and we will vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! I'm going to the Regional Party. Let's support our constituents, our citizens. These are their problems that we do not want to solve. We are obliged to do so. Please reread Project No.3059. I ask all the MPs to support this proposal -- re-reading this bill, which is very important to our citizens. Please vote. [[16:54:50]] For 201 The factions, please. The Regional Party, from 3 to 7, increased the number of votes, Fatherhood 64, Impact 21, Economic Development 23, Sovereign European Ukraine 23, Freedom 32, Company 0, non-fractional 31. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski. Following him is Deputy Lazko. The microphone is on, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u62	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm talking to the Communists, the Party of the Regions. We all, all Ukrainian citizens understand that the main mass of business has built its buildings near the water. I understand that part and members of the Supreme Council. But we have to think about ourselves, we have to think about millions of people who can't go to Dniper. We should think of millions of people who cannot reach the sea. And, first of all, we need to think about our constituents who have delegated us to the Supreme Council so that we can make decisions that suit their interests. So this law is in the interests of the electorate. And unfortunately, we're making a decision in the Supreme Council that answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u63	Let me finish. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u64	The citizens of Ukraine, who of you were abroad, know that in the entire civilized world, access to water is free of natural resources in any country, both in Spain and in Israel and in Italy. Anyone can make it to the sea. In Ukraine alone, it is only in the Post-Radians countries that show national acquisitions: the forest, the water is the property of units, not of Ukrainian citizens. Those who have not voted in favour of the Law on Free Access to Water, to the Forest are taking action against the people. The Supreme Council today, without adopting this law, has demonstrated in turn that this Supreme Council is the antinational Supreme Council and those who have not voted in favour of this law have stolen the forest and that water themselves. And so I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to publish a list of those who have not voted, let the whole country know how they protect people's interests. Shame on you, parasites!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, I think we should publish a list of national deputies who do not go to the hall or vote in favour of the laws that they have personally promised to all their constituents. At the same time, fellow honourable Members, I inform you that the next time I will address the Supreme Council on the ad hoc vote, I will re-vote this bill, taking into account its importance. I'd like the authors to work on it so we can do it. And immediately accept it both as a foundation and as a whole. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the draft regulations. In particular, the Law (No. 3894) on Parliamentary Hearings on "Ensure the Realisation of Housing Rights of Guests: Problems and Ways of Solving Them". This project is being implemented by the Parliamentary Hearing Orders in May. Dear colleagues, do you need to give the author a word? You don't have to. Can we vote now? We can. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support the questions of residents living in hostels, it's very acute and it's actually bothering all the citizens in different parts of our country, whether it's the South or the North. I ask you to support this project by voting for it as a whole. Please, Your Honor, vote on the draft (No. 3894) for parliamentary hearings. Please vote. [[16:59:14]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Education, Health and Social Welfare of Children with Psychological Development Disorders. Problems and ways to solve them." Is there a need to give the floor to author Greenewicz Lilia Mikhailovni? There's no need. I see. The topic is topical and very important. Please support the project (No. 3314-d) on parliamentary hearings: "Education, health and social welfare of children with mental disabilities." Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:00:10]] For 236 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the next draft of the Parliamentary Hearings Ordinance on the state and legislative development of the science and technology of the state. The proposal to hold these hearings on July 2, 2014. Project number 4479. Is there a need for a word? There's no need. I see. By the name of the content of this draft decision. Please, Your Honor, 4479 please support as a whole. Please vote. [[17:01:10]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a technical problem with holding parliamentary hearings. This relates to the draft Hearing Order on the topic "Legislative Information Society Development in Ukraine". The fact is, when they made that decision, they didn’t count the time. And the project, which was voted on March 11th, already envisioned the holding of parliamentary hearings on April 9. Our colleagues don't make it. They haven't fucking changed the date and they can't prepare these hearings. There is a request to support the change in the time of these hearings from April 9, 2014 to June 18, 2014. Is there no need for the committee to comment? Can we vote? Requests, fellow Members, to support this proposal by voting, please, with regard to the change in the date of parliamentary hearings, draft 2387a. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please make up your mind. [[17:02:40]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we actually have all the questions we've considered, we've left with staff proposals, we've got personnel issues. I want to ask you, are you ready to vote now? Because I see that many of the national MPs are not in their jobs and we can, I understand that we can put an unlimited number of times to the vote so that we just don't spend too much time discussing a question that's understandable to everyone. Can we now vote on the issue of the release of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine? (Noise in the hall) Can we? Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, we are ready to vote on these issues now. Rather, we believe that there is a real need for illustrations in some authorities. In this case, if it is already broken, the deadline has come for the completion of their credentials, new ones should be appointed. But it is vital that the decisions that the session room has voted take effect. I want to remind you that two weeks ago, we voted in the session room for the cancellation of the powers of members of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, and this Order has not yet been signed, that it does not allow us to include a procedure for competition for public organisations to apply for this position. We still need to think about it, especially when there's such a risk today, there are dangers in the country's information space. We need to form a Security and Defence Council. Oh, I'm sorry, please. The Television and Radio Council to work with the Security and Defence Council to improve our information space. Let us draw your attention to the need for this Supreme Council Order to be signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u67	I will find out at the secretariat why they have still failed to sign this decree. And when there's no problem, I'm going to sign this decision today. And I would ask the Supreme Council to make proposals for a new composition, to prepare these questions, say, for a new board of representatives from the Supreme Council, this National Council on Television and Radio. Dear colleagues, once again, can we ask questions and vote? Please, I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Mr. Razankova Nikola Mikolaiovich. Is he there? Yes. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u68	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! According to article 85, part one, paragraph 19, of the Constitution, to article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints and releases half of the membership of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine through the adoption of the relevant decision. The term of office of members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine is 7 years. By decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 5605 of January 11, 2007, six members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine were appointed, whose terms of office ended on January 11, 2014. Taking into account article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to adopt a decree on the release of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine on the basis of the conclusion of their terms of reference. As a result of the discussion of the matter at the March 18 Committee, a decision was taken to approve the above - mentioned draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, can we vote on this project? Let me remind you: this is a project with a registration number of 4425 on the release of members of the National Bank of Ukraine who are elected by the quota of the Supreme Council. Please, Your Honor, please support this project once again as a basis and as a whole, its number 4425. Please vote. [[17:07:19]] For 213 Dear colleagues, I see that there is no mood to vote on personnel matters today. The decision is not taken. We didn't make it? Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we're not in training, we're in the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament and I'm asking for a vote. Please vote for re-examination. Please, everyone, take your seats, your esteemed colleagues, and vote. Please support the proposal for a reexamination. Please vote. [[17:07:58]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the leaders of the factions of the MPs to ensure the appearance of the national MPs and the work of all the national MPs, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and the current legislation. Tomorrow, dear fellows, we will continue our work at 10 o'clock. I'm adjourning today's session. Good-bye!
