ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:06:17]] There were 389 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honourable national MPs, faction leaders, committee heads, experts, held negotiations on options for dealing with the issue -- constitutional reform. But until some laws have been drawn up for consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to give a very two-minute word to the faction leaders for proposals. And then we're going to decide how we're going to work. I'm asking the faction leaders, who's brave, who's the first to act? Two minutes. I'm asking you to sign up for factions. And from the non-factional, the word will also be given. I'm asking you to sign up. Vitalia Calla, faction. Who will act? Turn on the Vitaly Click microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, a meeting was concluded at the head of the Supreme Council of the Fisherman Vladimir Vasilovich. Eventually, we began to enter the legal caseuistics — how much time we needed to decide. Ended up not registering documents right now. And I'm confident that at any time that we're currently delaying, he's doing everything he can to make the temperature rise in society. Realizing that the issues in the Supreme Council were not resolved, I received permission from the opposition and went to meet with the President of Ukraine, where I expressed the same position to him. The President's position that the adoption of the Constitution may take from one month to six months. I want to remind you once again that there is a political crisis in the country, and we have no time for six months. We need to solve this question. We need to go back to the 2004 Constitution in the same way that it was done in 2010. And there's clear confidence -- we can do that. It's a political and legal decision. I'm speaking to the representatives of the Party of the Regions. Please, it is up to us how quickly we can resolve this conflict. Once again, I want to warn you that the separatist sentiments of the Ukrainian Federation are on the rise. This is a dangerous road that could lead to the breakup of Ukraine. We don't have to look for differences, we have to solve this right now, and there's no time to delay this. Therefore, our proposal is to gather votes, vote in favour of the constitutional act of the return of the Constitution, register this act and vote in favour of the return of the Constitution in 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u3	I beg you, Freedom faction, Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u4	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, it is very important that Parliament not only engages in solving the systemic social and political crisis in Ukraine. But it is still too much for Parliament to quickly and timelyly address the problems that confront us. Well, look, if after November 30th, there was a parliamentary response, the President's reaction to beating up students, women, pensioners on the Maidan of Independence, it's not ruled out that there would be no such thing. If there had not been an unconstitutional vote here for the January 16 laws, the same would have been the case, it would not have been ruled out that this would not have been the case. If Azarov's resignation had been signed by the President much earlier, it would not have been excluded that what is now being done in Ukraine would not have been. That is why we turn to all members of the MPs: be concerned about this responsibility and understanding that decisions that the highest legislative body of our nation should be adopted in a timely and expeditious manner. What do we need to do now? First of all, it's a question of freeing the hostages. And we need to make changes and additions to the Decriminalization Act, and then the tension in society will be removed very quickly. And to release people who are in prison today. The other one. As far as constitutional reform is concerned. There are two options: either we vote by 300 votes, and the question is deleted, or we support the constitutional act proposed by the opposition representatives. Because otherwise, what we talked about with you would be the loss of territorial integrity and national sovereignty. From the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, he and his parliament want to go to Russia to be taken into their care, including by military intervention. This could result in a complete disaster and destruction for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u5	I'm asking you, the Fatherland faction, Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u6	Mr. Head! The inability of Parliament to resolve the issue for the simple reason that the faction of the Regions does not want political and economic stability in the country. I think Vladimir Vasilovich, if you want. You want there to be political stability in the country, don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u7	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u8	Yes, you do. I think, look, Mikola Janovich Azarov wrote a resignation application. Why don't you follow his principles and file a resignation application?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u9	Will you be happy?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u10	Then we would go and convince Viktor Fedorovich and somehow settle the situation, because I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u11	Arsenius Petrovich, I think you should write an application for resignation from the head of the Fatherland faction. Because today you are working very hard and very badly. That's it, there's no replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u12	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u13	I'm asking you, let's listen to Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u14	You know, I don't know if it's inconsequential or not, but Arsenius Petrovich, I think, expressed the basic idea that's in their head. [[B in m in s a l in]] So they don't fight for people's hopes, they fight for jobs, and they do everything they can to get these jobs released, and then they come. And the radicalization of the negotiating process that goes there at Vladimir Vasilevich's table clearly stresses this. I don't know who they represent anymore: either they represent themselves as loved ones, or they do express people's views and the opinions of Maidan. Now with regard to the return to the 2004 Constitution. I don't know if my colleagues were doing anything during the break, but I've done some work and I've done an expert evaluation of all the European institutions under the 2004 Constitution. There is not a single person in Europe who is familiar with this problem has a mouth, and would not have said a negative word about this Constitution. We now automatically want all the problems that have been brought back from 2005 to 2010, and this is done under the acknowledgment of the people who want it. I don't think so, I don't think so. Now with regard to destabilizing the situation. We're going to make a deal here, really, before our economy collapses. And we're going to have financial problems with the economy. We will stop paying pensions and stop paying salaries to budget workers. And, distinguished representatives of the opposition, it will be your fault, and only you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u15	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u16	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to state right now that the faction of the Company in this provocative affair that they're trying to launch is not going to accept. And I'll explain why. The faction of the Company stands firmly in those positions that all changes to the Constitution should be made in accordance with chapter XIII of the Constitution, namely the constitutional, legal way. Why am I talking about this, Your Honor? And hear us, Communists! Because today is a very serious threat if something else happens, because on the one hand and on the other hand, military formations are being formed in Ukraine today, illegal, unconstitutional, on the Maidan full of weapons. Second, the country can come to a fratricidal conflict. We see that the appeals to the so-called peace protest, no one could imagine for another six months that they would decide and act with Molotov cocktails. The West and the East are forming self - defense forces today. In the western areas of Ukraine, the mechanism for the exit of the local government was launched from under the control of the center. The opposition itself began to destroy the state’s integrity by forming national councils. By supporting calls for tax evasion, reviewing the authority of district councils and administrations. The laws of Ukraine are ignored in places. In places just now, extremism is a major component of the activities of so - called new politicians, the leaders of the people of Ukraine. Obviously, it's illegal. The unconstitutional changes in the Constitution when the so-called opposition to the South and East Ukraine takes the same methods to arms, and the same will happen to us in Ukraine. Hence, changes to the Law. The Constitution should be legal. The main component of the changes to the Constitution is the abolition of the President's office and the federalization of Ukraine, i.e. the territorial communities have to decide on language, cultural and religious, economic and other issues through the Federation. Federalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u17	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. I'm asking non-fractional proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u18	Come on, Baby. I'll do it later. Well, I'm embarrassed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u19	Two minutes. People's deputy Lazko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I guessed. Oleg Valeriyovich, I said. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u20	Oleg Lazko, non-fractional national MP, Radical Party. I think I'm going to express not only the non-fractional national MPs, but the entire Ukrainian people. People chose us here to solve the country's problems. Especially today, when the country is in a state of deep political crisis. And we need to be absolutely irresponsible to leave the Parliamentary Hall without solving this crisis without making decisions that will enable us to resolve this crisis. There's no way out of here! As the pope of Rome is chosen, they are sealed, sealed, and not released until the pope is elected. I have the same proposal: to protect the Supreme Council, Ilyin, the Chief of Staff, to seal the Supreme Council, not to release any of the deputies from the Supreme Council Hall; to eat, drink, water not to be given until they make the decisions that are needed in the interests of the country. Until the blood stops pouring! Until we stop fighting! I don't think the faction leaders are capable of making a deal, let's go to the Parliament Hall, here, let's make a deal, let's talk as much as possible. Human life is the greatest value! Our job is to save people's lives. No politics, no office, no ambition is worth a man's life! Today, five people have been killed. How many more people have to be killed in order for us to finally realize that we are responsible for the fate of the country?Oh, my God! That's why I'm addressing all the factions and non-fractional national MPs. If we break up with you, if the Supreme Council doesn't make a decision, it won't stop this war, there won't be a Supreme Council tomorrow. Tomorrow people will come in and take everyone out on the pitchforks, both left and right, and so on. So let's solve the country's problems, let's not break up! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u21	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Mikhailovich, would you like to take the floor? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, we're 43 out of fact. Well, at least you'll listen to the ones that aren't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u23	Yeah, yeah. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u24	Basically, it's a problem. I think we need to consider this issue and consider it fully. Perhaps, fellow believers, let us do it this way. Let's get this thing out of the way. There are numerous proposals that have been worked out. Perhaps listen to the Constitutional Court, what he was guided by when he brought the matter up. Listen to lawyers who are constitutional law specialists, what they recommend. By the way, the publications of Viktor Musiyaki, Kozubry, appeared in the last days. They're smart people who aren't politicized, and they're offering real things so that we don't finally drown the state. So there's obviously different ways to look at this. But we need to initiate a movement in the direction of solving this issue and to get it as close to the legal field as possible, and to reconcile positions, to make a decision. Once again, we will not solve anything by screaming, pushing. We simply need to identify the form and form in which to discuss the matter calmly, considerately, and listen to experts. This includes a decision, including a colleague who proposed to amend the Constitutional Court Law to invite him to reconsider his decision. It's going to be in a legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a national MP from Maidan. So let's listen to the national MP, I listened to him on Sunday. Is there a Gruszewski? Please, Gruszewski Vitaly Anatoliyovich, a man from Maidan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u26	As a result of all of us laughing, we're struggling with who loves Ukraine more, and all of this is a logical continuation of the idleness of what people have come out of Midan. And I came to the people to express my gratitude to them for proving that they alone had infinite power, and they proved that they should all be responsible for their promises and actions. But when I was on Maidan and listening to the talks, I saw that people were. And in their eyes, they were tired of hearing from morning to night proposals for anticonstitutional action, proposals for the creation of lawless national councils. People are doing nothing to create the National Guards of Self-Defense. And so I've offered you seven simple points that people in Maidan today can see the results of real work. One is to create lists of those officials in places that abuse power, in courts and so on. And that's the answer to the question. And he suggested that it is enough for national MPs, political party leaders or opposition, or in power, to engage in populism, eloquence and communication through television cameras. We have to work in the Ukrainian community. And so it was suggested that we find another way to get to power, not on the street, but on the basis of a little bit of work every day. And then people will choose who will be the President of the Ukrainian State. Questions to change the Constitution. Not 226 deputies, not 300 cannot make that decision and decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u27	Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u28	Forty - million U.S.A. We need to ask people what they think, create a working group on a referendum, and bring this to a referendum. But the change to the Constitution will not solve this issue today, corruption will not happen. And the official who misused power would abuse it in any way he could. So we need to start with a little bit of action. Therefore, the suggestion is to unite all, in every area where there are officials, where there are courts, where there are law enforcement officers, and we need to resolve this issue today. It's a request and a wish for everyone. The one who gets power on the street will not lose it either.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-04-m1.u29	Thank you. Let us listen to a wise person! Ladies and gentlemen, at 5 p.m., the talks will continue to be held so that we may work until 10 a.m. for tomorrow’s meeting. Therefore, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'm asking the faction leaders to continue the negotiations, to continue our work, at 17 o'clock in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. We need to do something for 10 hours so we can look into it in the Supreme Council Hall.
