ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests! Please take your seats. We continue our work. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to register. [[10:09:54]] Today 275 national deputies have been registered. Honorable National MPs, announcements. Today, there are two dates, but unfortunately, they are fundamentally different. On the one hand, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bobkova Alexander Mikhailovich. On the other hand, the people's deputies, today in 77th year, the Ukrainian national deputy of the second vocation, the well-deserved machine builder of Ukraine, Peter Stepanovich. I ask the distinguished national MPs to honor the memory of our colleague for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. In accordance with our agenda item, today we have an hour of questions to the government about economic issues, the economic state of the state. On your questions, we have the Cabinet of Ministers present. The MPs asked their questions in accordance with article 229 of the Law on Rules of Procedure to members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Today we have the following: Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Vice Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister Alexander Sich, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for Regional Development, Groisman Vladimir Borisovich, Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers for Agriculture Policy and Food, Switzerland Minister Igor Alexanderovich, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, Majszkowicz Mikola Romanovich, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Mohnik Andrija Volodymyrovich, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Sheremeta Pavel Mikhalovich, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Sales Yuri Vasilovich, Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs and First Deputy Minister of Galibarenko Natalija Mikolayevna, Minister of Economics and Coal Health, Minister of Health and Infrastructure I invite the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Sheremet Pavel Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, before the Minister tells you, I'll remind you of the Minister's regulations in the 15-minute report. And the answers and the questions are already in the 15-minute schedule, the question-answers. Please, Minister, report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u2	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honourable National Deputies, Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine received eight questions from MPs: A party of regions, a political party called UDA, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, and a parliamentary group called Economic Development. I'm going to put some of the questions together into the blocks, and I'm going to answer it this way. The first block relates to the economic situation of the state and the prospects for development. I think we all see the state of the economy of Ukraine. It is important to note, too, what depends on what we compare. If, of course, we compare with what we would like to compare with the dynamic economies and Eastern Europe and Southeast Asia, for example, then our zero percent in 2013 is, of course, very bad. Compared to crises where the decline was serious enough, very serious, the economic situation still gives some reason for the optimism that was considered for 2015-2016. So far, in 2014, unfortunately, there is no such strong optimism given the balanced macrosystem, the low level of competitiveness of the national economy, the decline in national ratings, the outflow, the outflow of capital abroad. It's critically low enough, I'd say, currency reserves against the backdrop of devaluation expectations, the tinnishing of the economy and with a substantial decline in innovation, and in 2013 and 2012. The positive contribution to GDP was limited to growth in agriculture and in individual economic activities. We see that Ukraine's economy is chronically dependent on double deficits. The first deficit is a fiscal deficit, and the second deficit is a trade deficit. These are the problems that have been accumulated in the country for a long time, and these are the problems that require prior treatment. And that's what our government will focus on first, which I'll also talk about later. In terms of exchange rate and currency market and macroeconomic stability, we expect that a stabilizing factor will be the receipt of financial resources from international financial institutions that will allow Ukraine's international currency reserves to be filled in at the shortest possible time, and remove the pressure on the currency market. When we talk about negative trends in the first quarter of 2014, we see a 5 percent decrease in industrial production, building -- minus 6.4 percent. Exports of goods decreased by 7.4 percent. Inward demand is a partial compensator, but it has not yet been transformed into domestic production. So when it comes to the 2014 forecast, the outlook for Ukraine's economy in the current year remains very fragile, the threat is the accumulation of commitments and the level of regulation, again, which the Ukrainian economy has shown over the decades, and, accordingly, those growth engines that would be in the future, they are still not working. Restrictive factors are also needed, a budget sequencer already implemented, an increase in the rate, an increase in gas prices, tariffs and heat, as a result of which we will no doubt have a narrowing of domestic consumer demand for households. But it also needs to be noted that this is part of the drugs that need to be in order to stabilize the entire macroeconomic situation. In 2014, with optimistic projections, we're going to have GDP declines, now we're talking about 3 percent, maybe even more. The rise in consumer market prices is serious enough as a result of these problems that I mentioned above and other negative factors that have been the result of policies that have been in the country in recent years. Economic growth can take place only at the end of the year and at the beginning of the following year for the implementation of the necessary, disciplined, structural fundamental reforms. So in the basic scenario, if we're talking about 2015, we're talking about the possibility of growth already, plus. And so we focus our attention in this direction. I'd like to move on to another cluster of questions, already those that are more focused on the future. There were questions about which sectors of the economy, where the government is proposing to give priority to the recovery of the economy from the crisis, I wouldn't be speaking too narrowly about any sectors or sectors of the economy so as not to offend any other. I think we're talking in general right now about the whole economy being sufficiently regulated. We see, globally, at least two economic engines that have to push it forward, regardless of sectors, sectors or regions. First of all, it's a small and medium-sized business that's been suppressed, it's mildly said, in a country, with any statistics, it doesn't work as an engine of the economy, as we see it in others, even in neighbouring economies. And the second is export. And in particular, when it comes to exports to the European Union, in almost a week we will have almost full opening of the European Union markets for Ukrainian goods. Opening up doesn't mean it's an automatic GDP increase and an automatic increase in the income of Ukrainian businesses and Ukrainian citizens. These markets still need to be captured, and they still need to be won. And in fact, we're also focusing our attention on this, the attention of the government when we're talking about supporting or promoting exports. The next question was about the economy’s exit from the crisis. I also point out that here we're talking about a few places-- we're talking about deregulation. Yesterday we were ready to present with colleagues from the Supreme Council five laws on deregulation for a package containing 20 laws. We're also talking about decentralization of power and other things that should bring both economic and political freedom down, into places and thus start this engine and this point of growth of the Ukrainian economy. There was a question as to whether the Government of Ukraine intended to initiate the nationalization of enterprises that belonged to business politicians who were in favour of the division of the country and so on. My answer is that this is the competence of other organs to determine first whether or not there is a criminal element and later what sanctions are there. I don't think this is a question for the Ministry of Economics. The next question is about government purchases, but in the last few years, three or four years, why no official has been held accountable. The regulation of public procurement is indeed within the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development, but these questions of attraction to responsibility are within the competence of other authorities and states, which I think will provide a more competent answer to this question and a more specific answer. From the Freedom faction, there were questions about the need for a realistic energy strategy and energy-efficient technology. An absolutely critical subject, I thank you for that question. I think perhaps the Minister of Energy and Fuel will add to that too. We are now talking about that the State Budget Act 2014 does not provide such funds for known reasons, but there are other funds coming from our international partners. And I would particularly like to draw your attention to the World Bank projects that are in enough serious amounts. So it's going to be projects worth 383 million dollars that relate to 9 cities in Ukraine, and now we're having official negotiations on that. This is about central heating and energy efficiency in these areas. We're also talking about the transfer of energy -- $385 million, the project is being prepared now. And we're talking about projects of the European Investment Bank: also about central heating and efficiency in these areas at $400 million. And this project should also be initiated by the end of this year. So if we're talking about energy efficiency, there are costs, but there are international financial organizations in the first place, and there is an opportunity for cities to first join the use and effective involvement of these funds in order to reduce Ukraine's energy dependency. Questions about economic cooperation with the Russian Federation. We are no doubt concerned about the decline in exports and trade in general with the Russian Federation. I must say that the government's contacts are not intense, unfortunately. Because, as we know, our Russian colleagues have some kind of problem with recognition, unfortunately, of the Ukrainian government. At the same time, there are, you've heard about yesterday's negotiations, and I've had personal contact with the First Vice-Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, the Minister of Economics. So we're talking about that economic cooperation, not military cooperation, but economic cooperation, and the cultural cooperation that it is, it should continue and it should last. At the same time, we're also talking about opening other markets for Ukrainian producers. I've already mentioned the European Union, and we can mention a number of other regions, South East Asia, which is growing quite powerfully. That is to say, the primary point here is that Ukrainian businesses, with these trade restrictions, regrettably, do not meet the commitments that countries have undertaken, Russia, including the World Trade Organization. And we, by the way, have conversations with the World Trade Organization about this, because it doesn't fit the rules of this organization. Other markets are opening up, other opportunities that could be used at this time. And finally, the last question about the outflow of investment from the country. The question was: The flow of foreign investment from Ukraine. Well, unfortunately, it's a trend that's been going on in Ukraine for years. How can investments remain in Ukraine? We see two simple ways: making business easier, easier in Ukraine and cheaper in Ukraine. So if we do that. In terms of business simplicity, Ukraine is 112th in business ease rating. Obviously it's not where we want to be or where we could be. We're talking, for example, about what we can be in the tens of years, after 2-3 years, and this is actually the kind of benchmark and the kind of benchmark that we want to be in when we're developing new legislation in this area. When we simplify, I want to thank those committee colleagues who support us in this. We're also talking about that business in Ukraine should be much cheaper because it's too expensive. Because companies don't get what they need. Foreign investments go where they can make the best of legal and ethical margins, of course. If you take down the corruption component, if you drag away, reduce the budget deficit that is pressing into the capital market, and involve the costs of international financial organizations, so that you can spend the capital in Ukraine, it could be one of the ways that you can make business easier and cheaper in Ukraine that will reverse the trend in the flow of foreign funds from Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u3	Thank you, Paul Mikhailovich. I invite the Finance Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Vitaliyovich, to the rostrum. Please, Alexander Vitaliyovich, your 15-minute report. I'll remind the National Deputies that after the co-reporters we'll have 30 minutes of oral questions to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u4	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. Let's start with a few general words. In less than two months of our work, the Ministry of Finance has mainly been working to restore the leadership of Ukraine’s public finances system. For the first two weeks, we practically went to diagnostics. Her results were reported by the Prime Minister of Ukraine from this rostrum. Let me remind you of a few numbers. The real and fiscal breakdown of the public finances system in 2014 was 4 times greater than the official budget deficit in 2014. An overcrowded income base based on the macrostructure that we've drawn has led to what we have today, to have, more faithfully, at the time of our transition, a 37 billion tax overpayment. The VAT has not returned more than 20 billion. And the tremendous pressure on business to pay off all new and new resources. In a single treasury account, 0, plus 80 billion dollars. We ate 33 billion dollars of the special fund, 29 billion local budgets, and 10 billion social funds. In addition to fulfilling its direct obligations, the State’s budget is forced to close the quasi - deficientities of other state structures. At the time of our transfer, only loans to the Pension Fund were issued over 51 billion dollars. NAK Naftogaz Ukraine is practically unsettled. The NAC budget deficit is only about 46 billion dollars this year. So interesting is the office like the Kravutodore sends 67 percent of its income to pay off the loan. And that's not their income, that's the government budget's income. In fact, the irresponsibility of the Ukrainian economy, the Ukrainian economic policy of the previous governments, the unrestrained social populism, the fierce corruption that has in recent years interfered with the paranoid kleptomania -- that's what the government faces when it comes to work. That's three steps that we've been able to take in this time. First. These are urgent steps to level the budget situation. We are grateful to Parliament for supporting very difficult initiatives on budget sequestering to fill the income part of the budget. Second of all, that's what my colleague was talking about. We started looking for resources to balance by the end of the year. In answer to a question about this, a little more detail. And thirdly, we have made the first, but in my opinion, very effective forward-looking steps towards restoring economic growth in the second half of 2014, and mainly in 2015. Now for the answers to your questions. 14 questions came to me. A lot of them are repeating themselves, and I'm not going to stop at what my colleague has already said. As for the exchange rate and the government's effect on the exchange rate. I'm not going to move the National Bank's department to refinance, to manage the exchange rate. I'm going to try to formulate only those positions that the government is directly responsible for. So, first of all, the government's task is to create a safe level of monetary liquidity so that it doesn't always go into the National Bank's currency reserves when it has to pay the government's own currency debts or our quasi-partners, such as NACs, Ukravtodor, Ukrazlazlaznica, guaranteed debt, etc. That's why we're doing an active job involving currency. Paul Sheremet has already told you about what we have done, we have almost concluded negotiations with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Union, with some of our bilateral partners. Let me inform you that by the end of the year we have to pay off about $9 billion more. Our job is to borrow this $9 billion in external markets so that again, I repeat, we don't put any pressure on the National Bank's foreign reserves. And we'll do it. It's different. The government puts pressure on the exchange rate by over-expenditureing capital expenditure and throwing large sums of money out of a single treasury account. It's not there right now. We pay exclusively protected expenses. It's a salary, it's a tax charge, we're paying help to families with children. We're paying for what we agreed with you, the expenses of our army. We're returning the value added tax, and I want to emphasize that. There is a firm position of government, Prime Minister of this matter. In March and early April, we paid off all our obligations under this tax. Now, we've already had a one-and-a-half-billionth of a month, and we're going to put it all out in five days. So once again, I want to emphasize that the government's only treasury account doesn't put any pressure on the currency market today. In the same way, we help the National Bank deal with the currency crisis. As far as the question is concerned, as was said, a 7% dumper import tax. Well, for starters, what a painting. She's not happy. A 60 - percent increase in drugs was made on a case-by-case basis. But in this 60 percent or even 70 percent of the individual positions, our share, as it were, of the VAT that we raised is 5.5 percent on imported drugs and 3 percent on natives. Unfortunately, 56 percent is a course. We are constantly negotiating with our national manufacturers, and we believe that with regard to tax burden, we will be able to control the situation. Yet, when it comes to medicine, two more aspects of VAT cannot be overlooked. The first is that in fact, the drug and medical market has become one of the major shadow markets in our country. Taking into account taxation, tax evasion, as always, as soon as there are tax duties, look for problems. As national MPs, you have repeatedly turned to the government for a 300 - 400 - percent increase in the price of medicine and medical equipment that is entering Ukraine today. People are also accustomed to overestimating prices in order to be able to export capital abroad. Even as low as 7 percent, we will be able to pay the tax in order to. We're going to be able to take this thing off at least. As far as another important aspect is concerned. The zero VAT rate for imports of goods from abroad was the import medicine, because you weren't clearing VAT when imported, and our manufacturers paid VAT for the manufacture of medicines. The 7 percent interest rate is going to equalize us, and then eventually maybe we'll start producing more drugs in the middle of our country. And so, gentlemen, is it possible to call Shulerian politics an attempt to bring order or perhaps what was done to us? As far as I'm concerned, it's an incendiary tax. We offered a really unified bet, but after consulting the MPs, we decided to leave two bets. Why did we take this step? It's about diesel fuel. Because, according to statistics, 65 percent of us have imported only high - quality gasoline last year. The tests revealed that 61 percent of imported high - quality gasoline was the most low - quality diesel. That's why we were determined to raise the stakes and unify them. The big question concerns social protection measures after raising gas prices and heat tariffs. This was talked about by the Prime Minister from the rostrum and explained why we were forced to take such a step that, unfortunately, we had to go a long, long time ago. Gas prices, heat tariffs haven't changed in a very long time. Ukraine has the lowest prices in Europe and the lowest tariffs in Europe. However, 83 government decrees have been adopted to protect the population that is significantly affected. We took an unprecedented step. 4.5 million of our citizens' families out of 16 million and 8 million who get centralized heat supply won't feel price rises. This is going to cost us and you've supported this position by taking changes to the government budget, 3.3 billion extra dollars. So the protection is going to be done by a stationary system called 10.15 plus the compensation that I told you about. Other, richer rows will pay more. What about transparent pricing policies in housing and utilities? Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not transparent pricing. Go to the National Commission on Public Services, go look at public meetings when tariffs are accepted and approved on any utility, and you'll see that this process is absolutely transparent. The dog is hiding in another, these tariffs are extremely low. In the state of 278 heat companies controlled by the national commission, 98 percent heat supplies. Of these, consider, ten have tariffs that correspond to economic self - worth. Instead, we have enterprises where tariffs correspond to no more than 10 percent of the cost. And then the whole state collects the money that's called reimbursement of heat tariffs and right here, we pay the whole state to those who don't want to raise tariffs. Problem one here. There's another problem. Last year we used 8.3 billion cubic metres of gas, I can assure you that we actually used no more than 6, everything else went to the heat of the shadow market. As long as we don't get the order down here, we're not gonna make it. And as practice shows, I'm jumping to another question, first of all, bringing order is a more expensive price for gas. Remember, a few years ago, we consumed 76 billion cubic metres of gas, and our industry consumed 50, and today it consumes 25. Every industrialist has done his best after real gas prices have been squeezed, convinced that the same will happen to the population. What about the question of where the money will go if we get it? I've talked about this before, and we're not going to be like our predecessors eating money, or turning it into a bracelet and spending it on financing the government budget deficit. Costs this balance all of the 9 billion we want to borrow from the monetary loans that were made earlier. What is the state doing with the agricultural sector? I want to tell you the main thing that the state has done, it has preserved a special tax regime for the added value. Let me remind you, just recently, until you and I took a change in the fixed agricultural tax, it was 6.5 dollars per acre of grille -- 6.5 dollars, and it hasn't been up since 1995. Now it's going to make 22 bracelets of everything, as economist Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik says, is the largest offshore in the middle of the state that we have. It's different. We have budget programs, let's have a small -- about a billion -- that we'll use to help the village. And finally the banking sector. Today, as a matter of fact, 44 billion credits have been issued to agro-economies in the banking sector. And the National Bank has started to want to inform you, and our agrarians, although I hope they know about it, they know about special auctions for sales of resources below 10 percent for agrarians. 180 million, sorry, 620 million April 15 was sold. On April 23, the auction is still worth another one and a half billion dollars. It's 180 days. Come to the auction, buy through your banks resources. Nazbank took an unprecedented step: they allowed their decision to go beyond that of the 91st celebrity who was banned from raising credit chairs if you were lending the village. As regards the main directions of budgetary policy for 2015. We've actually detained them, but they're approved in the government on April 16, and they'll be filed here soon, in Parliament. We're counting, let me tell you the basics of this document, we're counting on a small real GDP increase next year, 1.7 percent, consumer price index, December, 5.4 percent, producer price index, 7.3 percent. These are the accounts of the Ministry of Economics, we agree with them, and so is the National Bank. The main challenges that we are facing are getting the government budget deficit, I would stress, the state deficit, within three percent. There was a big discussion here. We need to be tense. You can't raise debts anymore. I want to remind you that since 2008, debt growth has actually started in geometric progress. All these years, we have lived only on the basis of increasing debt, thus translating responsibility into our children and grandchildren. And because of the fact that we have eaten half of the nation’s currency reserves in the last three years. We're going to do our best and we're not going to let GDP be redistributed because of the budget at a higher level than 30 percent. This year is going to be 32. We'll try to reduce the pressure on business. We're going to leave a marginal amount of government debt at 55 percent. This year this rate is 57 percent. So we're going to cancel out the debt with you. Well, there's a few other indicators that I'd like to talk about, but there's no time. As far as I'm [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, indeed! There's no money. In energy-efficient technologies, my colleague told me quite a bit about it. And so maybe I'm not stopping at that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u5	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we're moving to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a question. May I remind you, the people's deputies. We have half an hour to ask. A Minute of Question and Two Minutes of Answer People's deputy Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u6	Thank you. I have a question and a wish for the Minister of Economics. First of all, I want the Ministry of Economics to become one of the leading ministries in the government, because the issues that stand in the order of the day state are those that the Supreme Council Committee on Business Development has put in place. It's to create normal conditions for business development and self-employment. We can't keep the country on subsidies. We need to be able to make money and create a decent life. Secondly, this is competition and the normal work of antimonopoly politics. And the third is financial stability. I'd like your ministry to make this the main course. And I'd like to ask you once again to stress that any of the bills you're passing, please let us talk before we look at it in the Supreme Council, with the business community.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u7	Thank you. Minister of Economic Development, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyrna, I agree with you. So we'll work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u9	A little louder. If you answer, a little louder. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Gubar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u10	Please pass on the word Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u11	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u12	I also have a question for Paul Sheremet. We've been talking for a long time about how the problem of our economy is that most of the activity is in the shadows, and the taxes that are being applied are creating a system in which it's better to earn money on schemes than to care about innovation and real efficiency. Do you think a tax on selling and canceling VAT could make this situation even, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u13	Minister of Economic Policy, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. We need a little more time to answer your question. We have been instructed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to form a tax reform group. This group just got together, it's starting to work. It might take us a few weeks to come up with a clearer vision and to develop a vision of a new tax system that will be effective, that is, it will provide the state budget with the funds that it needs, at the same time, will be easy to understand, to pay, to administer and attract investors, and Ukrainian, and foreign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Please include the microphone in the words of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u16	Thank you. I have a question for Arsenius Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich is clearly and is not under discussion that the economic situation is based to a great extent on the quality of the legislative base, in fact, for what Parliament is working for. And more and more, I think you're seeing it, too, is an avalanche of parliamentary bills that claim very serious, systemic things. I ask some of my colleagues, "Did you read what you brought to the Supreme Council?" He says, "Well, it's on demand from the public, public activists and so on." I treat them with respect, but, Arsenija Petrovich, perhaps we should pay more attention to the demands of those who produce the national product, the success or failure of all social policies, the potential of our social policies? I have a question. Do you not think that it is the government, as the subject of the legislative initiative, that is to say, to introduce key, systemic laws on the economy, including, by the way, on the creation of new ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Please, Arseny Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u18	Mr. Zarubinski, thank you for your question. That is why the government has decided to set up government committees. Just before the meeting of each Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have a government committee, which is composed of the heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by their agreement, and the national deputies of Ukraine, who, together with the government, want to conduct a single national centralised policy. And I sincerely invite all the deputies of all factions, come to a government committee meeting, come to a government meeting, let's work together to ensure that the bills that are passed in Parliament are not of a populist nature. It sometimes sounds beautiful, and in fact it doesn't go well. As for the previous question asked about the tax system, I want to tell you, you had the right question about childization. And I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in view of the fact that we started to order customs, because the closed scheme of Kurchenka's name after duty-free imports of petroleum products was mobilised in April-months compared to April-month last year, in addition to the State budget, 835 million dollars were mobilised. Last year, the Family scheme stole 835 million for non-smoking and oil-dealing benefits. This year, in April-month, almost plus a billion, which used to be in the pocket, and now it's in the budget. The tax system we're working on is tax cuts, an extension of the tax base. And we also ask members of parliament, let's actively engage all the business circles, with all the factions involved, to write the new Ukrainian Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u21	Please turn on the Deputy Dudenkov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government! I have a question for the Minister of Finance. I listened very carefully to your report, and yet the question is more specific about the current tax system, about the administration of the income tax. Regrettably, for several years, the system of advance taxes on income is in operation, which generates disproportionate burden on tax payers on the common system. The system does not encourage the tax declaration to reflect its own profitability. What kind of painting do we have now? The company made a 2013 declaration, which was more efficient from an economic point of view, which was more profitable. Unfortunately, because of political instability in particular, the country’s economic activity is not that profitable, but the pressure is maintained at the level of 2013. The question is as follows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u23	If possible, form a question faster so that the Minister can answer it. Please turn on the Ministry of Finance microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u24	I understand what this is all about. I fully share your concern, and to my conviction, we need to change the system of advance payments to profit tax. As far as our government is concerned, there is only one thing I would like to say in my own excuse. I told you about 37 billion prepaid taxes, now there are 33. We're trying to lower this board a little bit. Now we've agreed on the following, that who has an advance payment, we're going to try to count them in the current payment. But as for the change in the system, let's work with the parliamentarians on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u25	Please turn on Arsenija Petrovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u26	In answer to your question, the honourable Member of Parliament, the overpayment, here in Parliament's rostrum, I've told you that the total amount of overpayment we've accepted is 37 billion dollars. These were overpayments on core core taxes: a tax on added value and income tax. As of today, we have reduced the overpayment by 3.6 billion dollars. At the same time, we have compensated 3.7 billion dollars of value added tax in the last month, and in the current month, 1.3 billion dollars in the machine will also be compensated. I just called the Head of State Treasury to get all the information published by law in all the companies that received the added value tax. We can honestly tell you that some of these funds were credited to entrepreneurs as income tax. It's going voluntarily. Because we have to balance the budget. But what we're starting to do is we've already put 5 into damages and now we're preparing a register of companies that aren't being compensated in the machine, that's first and second. For 3.6 billion, we cut back on taxes that we inherited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u27	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputies of Moshenski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u28	I have a question for the Prime Minister, three questions. First. When will the extermination and liquidation of the extortionist army be carried out, the tax police? That's the first question. Second question. When will we civilianly start bidding, when will we have electronic auctions, like in the whole world? When will we come to world practice? That's the second question. And the third question concerns the region of Lugansk, my district. Will tenders be audited for 2014? And I'm particularly interested in the supply of mine equipment. Because there are complaints of price increases of 50 per cent, of poor equipment, when meeting with the Directors of Mines. And that leads to explosions in the mines, killing our people. And the family of Ephraim is behind it. And from this money is financed by separatist actions in our Lugansk region. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u29	Thank you. Please turn on the Prime Minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. People's MP, for asking. And so, first. As far as the IRS is concerned. We now have a tax police according to the Ukrainian Tax Code Act. What the government has offered. First. A draft Law on the Establishment of a Financial Investigation Service has been prepared. The purpose of this law is to provide, not for the purpose of helping the entrepreneur, but for the purpose of getting money out of the business pocket for bribes, to do one single service that will have the right to examine the economic and financial issues of the entrepreneur. So we want to take into institutions such as the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which has an office to combat economic crime, like the Ukrainian Security Service, which has a department to combat counter-intelligence in the economy. Neither these nor other institutions have any bearing on entrepreneurial activities. These are fertilized structures to take the wages out of the enterprise. Create one single government financial investigation service. It's that experience that's in the West, that's that experience that Americans have. One that predicts that such a structure primarily engages in unprofitable oversight. Less send the inspector out for a direct relationship with the taxpayer. Either they meet, one demands, and the other gives or refuses to give. And it's only to be translated into unprofitable surveillance. The only way out is if we have differences in financial statistics. Today, we are able to control all the calculations through the so - called fifth VAT supplement, there is an information network. We'll be able to control the excise goods if we enter an electronic excise stamp. And we are able to reduce the number of subjects that today reach tens to one institution called the Financial Investigation Service. Individually with regard to the activities of the tax police, which currently exists. On my mission, according to a letter from the European Business Association, the tax police closed 700 criminal cases aimed not at investigating financial offences, but at disposing of business, a clean racket under the cover of public authorities. The head of the tax police has read about every case that is closed. The other one. Tax police are supposed to have a business dialogue. And I can assure you as Prime Minister that once I get a signal that the taxpayers have gone to harm business, they will immediately be organizational and administrative decisions. The tax police are now investigating the case of businessman Kurchenk, where 700 million dollars have already been arrested, investigating cases of abuse and the actual theft of the state budget and tax evasion. We're going to make, by the way, honourable Members of Parliament, for your consideration of a separate decision, I would like to consult with you necessarily on what we do with those entrepreneurs who were forced to be part of the family schemes that were actually forced to pay for what was actually called the premises that were created by the previous ministers of incomes and congregations and the government that were forced to work under such conditions. We do not include the fact that in Parliament we will have to make a decision on tax compromise between business entities and the state. Someone calls it tax amnesty, I call it tax compromise. To make people aware of the twisting page, they paid for it, I emphasize, paid to the state, and no one would persecute them for it. Your question about e-commerce. I want to inform you that the Ministry of Justice has brought to the attention of the government, and the government has already agreed and adopted an appropriate e-commerce system order after all court decisions have been made. In other words, the property that had been arrested, the property that had previously been sold only through five firms, and where 15 percent of each person’s property was taken away from the value of the property and that property was still underpriced. So you have a loan, for example, the government executive came to you, valued the property that costs a thousand dollars, 500 dollars, and another 15 percent took away, and it's only sold through five companies. This scheme is broken. And now we're transferring everyone to transparent electronic auctions for the realisation of state property. On the contrary, it's unbelievable. Because the total amount is 16 billion dollars for the realisation of this property. Count it out, out of 16 billion five firms received 15 percent, arithmetic was very simple -- two billion dollars we took from the pockets of corrupters and returned it back to the people. Obviously, they're ordering the articles, they're ordering TV, well, two billion is two billion. But in this matter, we are stable and a system of electronic commerce as the first step in the State Executive Service of the Ministry of Justice. What about government purchases? – your third question. According to public procurement, the law has been passed, and I hope it will be published tomorrow. Because it's been a week, you voted. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is investigating a tender, including a tender in the coal sector. And I appeal to the Attorney General of Ukraine, as most criminal cases there fall under the first and second categories of civil servants, which are subject to investigation exclusively by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Speed up investigations into the theft of government funds in the coal sector, where hundreds of millions have been looted. The authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office have every authority to do so, as do the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u31	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u33	Please turn on Michael Golovkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u34	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for Economic Minister Pavel Mikhailovich. You pointed out in your report that the government's work would be focused on two main areas: economic deregulation and economic exports. But we all know that our Ukrainian economy is significantly lagging behind in exports and that the negative trade surplus is now 16 billion. And the problem is that our economy is in the shadows. And that's why I'd like to hear what concrete steps the government will take to get the economy out of the shadows? First of all, it's customs schemes, it's pay in envelopes, it's tax evasion, it's counterfeit products and so on. That is, what eats the economy in principle, because experts have calculated for today it is somewhere, the economy in the shadow of Ukraine, in order of up to 60 percent. It's a colossal resource that doesn't go into the budget today. So tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Who Will Answer? Minister of Economics, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. First of all, the immediate steps that have already been taken, which the Prime Minister of Ukraine has just talked about -- especially with regard to imports of petroleum products -- the sum was also called 835 million dollars, which have been added to the budget. These are already the first steps of childhood. And the next steps to detinction apply to the detinction package, which, among other things, is brought to the Supreme Council. We're hoping for your support, we're drafting other laws that will gradually be passed in order to simplify and cost business in the country. And together these two directions: both deterrence and deregulation will lead to a substantial increase in the official sector in Ukraine's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u37	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, a radical party. I have a question for Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Now you're giving the results of the Geneva talks and the declaration of victory as the victory of Ukraine. In my personal opinion, it's not a victory, it's a defeat of Ukraine, it's a testimony that Western democracies have betrayed the Ukrainian state and left the Russian state alone. What makes you think that? First, there is no statement in the Geneva Declaration condemning the military aggression of Russia and the annexation of Crimea; in the Geneva Declaration. Let me see the Prime Minister. In the Geneva Declaration, no mention of Crimea is required; there is no requirement for Russian troops from Crimea and diversors from the south and east of Ukraine to withdraw from Ukraine. The declaration does not even explicitly guarantee the integrity of Ukraine and the return of Crimea. In addition, the amnesty provided for by separatists, the possibility of electing them to the authorities, and as a result, they would continue to make their black.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Turn on the prime minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the decision made yesterday in Geneva at the four-party talks in the form of the United States-US-European Union and the Russian Federation. First of all, I'd like to point out that we don't have any expectations about this statement. Secondly, Russia was forced to sign a statement and condemn extremism, which is actually supported by the Russian Federation today. Thirdly, after signing this statement, Russia actually applied to those "peace protestors" in paws, with Kalashnikov's rifles, and with the MANPADS in hand, demanding to disarm immediately and give up arms. Russia had to sign for all illegally formed military formations to be immediately disbanded, and the facilities of the authorities, the militia, the Security Service and other institutions were immediately released. With regard to the government’s position, the government claimed and continued its work on decentralization of government power. And this does not apply in any way to our negotiations, either in the form of four, or to Russia’s demands. This is a requirement of the Ukrainian people to decentralize power, to delegate authority to the territorial communities and regions, to amend the Tax Code, to amend the Budget Code and to fill the regions with additional financial resources. The Ukrainian government protected and protected national minorities, the Russian-speaking population, as they are all Ukrainian citizens, and we are the only country, regardless of who speaks the language, who goes to which church, who reads what page of Ukrainian history. (Applause) I also want to point out separately that the Ukrainian government has already prepared a draft of the Ukrainian Amnesty Act. In that case, if those who illegally take up arms and take possession of premises give up arms and release these premises, we believe that such persons should be amnesty. We need peace and harmony in the country. Such amnesty will not apply, of course, to serious crimes, but to all other people who will give up arms and leave the premises, we are ready to release everyone from criminal liability. Such a law is prepared. If this is Parliament's will, I stress that the will of all the Ukrainian Parliament, including our political opponents, will be immediately registered, and let us put it to the vote. With regard to the position in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Three of the four participants in the Geneva meeting made it clear that no one recognizes the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation under any circumstances. And our demand remains unchanged: Crime is the territory of Ukraine. Whether it's people from Donetsk, whether it's people from Lviv or Ternopol or Luhansk, they stole our property. This is our Crimea, this is our Yalta, this is our sea, this is our territory, Vladimir Vladimirovich! [[Applause]] We in Crimea and the international community will continue, step by step, to reflect Crimea back in political and diplomatic terms, as we did in the United Nations. UN Security Council: only one country blocked the decision of the UN Security Council – Russia. The United Nations General Assembly is an unprecedented decision when 100 members of the United Nations voted in favour of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and Ukraine’s support for Ukraine and the Crimea. This is the majority of the United Nations. Let me remind you that in Georgia, this decision has only been voted on by 48 member countries of the United Nations and, in Ukraine, 100 out of 190 voting countries. We must be honest and honest. Tomorrow morning the question of Crimea is difficult to solve. But we need to be sure that in our lives, the modern - day Ukrainian story will say that those who took Crimea apologize to the Ukrainian people. And Crimea was, is and will be Ukrainian. Our land, our territory, and we will fight for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for government is up. Let us thank the government for the frank frank dialogue that has taken place in our session room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u43	Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to announce parliamentary requests on Friday. The Supreme Council received 154 parliamentary requests. Alexander Brigintz, under the responsibilities of the President of Ukraine with regard to the proposal for the discharge of the acting head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Sergey Pashinsky, and the acting deputy head of the Presidential Administration, Andrei Senchenk, in view of the fact that they have not given up the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy and combine the two posts. Please support this request. People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[11:16:36]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to the parliamentary request for a delegation of authority to designate free nutrition organizers for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster in the general educational institutions located in the areas of radioactive pollution. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the capital repair of the school’s I-II level was in the village of Friday, in the area of Žitomir. Constantine Guzenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the situation that arose in the formation of pensions for former employees of the No2 Production Union of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant. Svetlana Fabricant to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to verify the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and the Establishment of Presences for Ukraine's Growth since 27 March 2014 No.1166-VII, as part of the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children from 21 November 1992 No.2811-XII, to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. Svetlani Fabricant to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the inclusion of funds under State guarantees for the reconstruction of the airport complex of the International Airport Odessa. Irina Spirina, under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine in respect of debt from earnings to employees of the Public Shareholders Association, Dniprometrobud. Vasila Petíkovka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the situation surrounding the historical and architectural monuments in the city of Uzhgrad Zakarpatsk. Alexander Abdullin, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation of a criminal offence, provided for in article 212, part 3, of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the management of a subsidiary "A.E.T. Joe's AP!"which is under the control of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Alexander Abdullin to the first Deputy Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine for the improper investigation by the employees of the Chief Investigator of Financial Investigations of the Ministry of Income and Assembly of Ukraine of a criminal offence, provided for in article 212 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the management of a subsidiary "A.E.T. Joe's AP!".. Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the allocation of funds according to the project and cost-saving documentation for the completion of the construction of the athletic sports hall at the Hmelnicka Stadium. Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the railway movement in the direction of Kharkiv through Hmelnicki. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on dealing with the use of local government budgetary resources. Groups of National Deputies (Chernegi, Romanyuva, Chugunkova) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify violations of the requirements of effective legislation, the illegal inaction of individual employees of the Department of Urban Welfare and the preservation of the natural environment of the Kyiv City Public Administration, as well as the municipal enterprise Kyivblastura on the order of placement of temporary buildings in Kiev. Andrija Tajniboka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure the construction of schools in the villages of Lower Jablounka and Libohor in the region of Lviv. Valery Golovk to the first Deputy Minister of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the corruption of previous directors of the Ministry of Income and Assembly of Ukraine. Sergey Grynevetsky to the Acting Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the issue of the defence of private stockholders of the Odeski Cow Company. Sergey Grinevetsky, acting as Ukrainian Minister of Defence for the Protection of the Rights of Veterans of the Armed Forces, residing in Military City No.16 (Odessa, Artillery Street, 4). Alexander Momota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action on the situation surrounding the suspension of military orders with the Russian Federation and on the comprehensive programme of defence support. Mikoli Palamarchuk until he was temporarily acting head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine's Attorney-General for the determination of certain circumstances of the life of twice Hero of the Soviet Union, Lieutenant-General Vasil Petrov. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the State Inspectorate of Consumer Rights, the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region for the protection of the legitimate interests of the Children's House of the Children's Hope. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Brovar City Council, the State Vocational and Technical Institute of the "Brovar Professional Charter" on the non-permission of residential rights of residents on the street of Independence, 14-b, in the city of Brovary in the Kyiv region. Valery Ishchenka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the use of settlement measures in connection with an increase in foreign exchange rates with payments made by Ukrainian citizens in foreign currency. Victor Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the supply of water to the village of Leski. Oleg Kulinić to the first deputy head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine for the payment of credit debt under a contract for the sale of a residential house. Vladimir Pekhov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to ensure that children affected by the Chernobyl disaster are properly fed, in educational establishments located in the areas of radioactive pollution in Korostensk, Luginsk, Orutsk, Oleuvian and Korostena in the Žitomir region. Bogdan Benjuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the cessation of television broadcasts that promote Russian intelligence. Bogdan Benyuk and John Stoyk are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and the Minister of Justice for the Prohibition of the Activities of Separatist Organizations and Parties in Ukraine. Mr. Ivan Kurovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the financing of the National Institute for Surgery and Transplantology dialysis programmes. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prospects for the development and implementation of the National Target Regional Development Programme of the Ukrainian Danube for 2014-2017. Irina Farion, head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the inadequacy of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine of the individual articles in the newspaper Communist, which threaten the security and territorial integrity of the state, and the temporary suspension of the registration of this publication. Irina Farion to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the organization of the system of military and sports, patriotic children's games, organized and conducted by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Oleg Medunica and Valerija Gołk are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the use of necessary measures and for the personal control of the legitimate use of water in the village of the Oratov Region for the purpose of objective and impartial investigation and protection of the constitutional rights of residents of the village of Zadědja. Irina Herashchenko is responsible for the Ukrainian Defence Minister's responsibility to provide information on the use of funds collected during the "Support the Ukrainian Army" campaign. Roman Ilika to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the provision of stable water supply in Borislav and the village of city-type Lviv Region. Victoria Bullach, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, the first deputy prosecutor of the Suma District, on the use of prosecutorial measures and the criminalization of participants in the pogrom of the Communist Party office in Suma and the beating of members of the party. Anatolia Revenka to the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal removal of land and the opaque use of land leases. Vladimir Boyk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful actions of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service. Vladimir Boyk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper prosecution of the city of Kiev. Oleg Tragnibok to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the state of the gold reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine. Vladimir Kupchak to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the criminal activities of an organized group, whose members are the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region. Vladimir Kupczak, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, was responsible for verifying the enterprises of Burstin TEZ, the Open Shareholders Association of Westernergo and the Private Shareholder Society of Ivano-Frankivskskement concerning atmospheric air pollution, the water streams that caused the growth of cancer and tuberculosis in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Tetjana Sluz, acting Attorney - General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the insufficient investigation of criminal conduct into the deliberate murder of Irina Filisuk. Tetjana Sluz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine, Acting Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of the financial and economic activities of the Uzlovska alcohol plant of the State Enterprise Ukrcspirt. Vladimir Chuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use by the Government of Ukraine of urgent measures to implement the terms of the Contract for Sale of Units (Parts) of a fixed number of greenhouse gas emissions from Japan. Mr. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal conduct of the management of the private stockholders' company Ukrproftur. Edward Leonov, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, who is responsible for Vasilk’s city head’s occupation of the territory of Olena Kolomiec and the inaction of the authorities of the city of Vasilkow Kyiv region. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the need to take account of the social and humanitarian needs of Ukrainians who are citizens of Ukraine and live in the territory of Transnistria and create conditions for the exercise of their electoral rights. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the need to address the problem of providing the population of the Poltava region with ballooned gas. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the continuation of the future school in the village of Ljubimovka of the Kakhov region of the Hersonian region. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the readiness of education institutions in Ukraine to increase heating tariffs. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of voluntary tariff increases by carriers on public transport. John Stoyk to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the cessation of the broadcast of Russian television channels that violate Ukrainian legislation. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the quality of natural gas supplied to consumers in the Volin region for household needs. Eugene Melnik to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the use of the money for the disposal of Mine No.7 "Novolinska" in the village of the city-type Yellow Wolin region between 1996 and 2014. Oleg Medunica to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the investigation of a criminal case involving an attack on the editor of the Panoram newspaper (the city of Suma). Romana Ilika to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of railway transport cancelled by the State Administration of Ukraine for rail flights to the resort city of Truscavet Lvivsk. Jaroslav Hinka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the discharge from office of Director of the State Enterprise "Lviv International Airport" named Danil Galicko" Roman Gontarev. Anatolia Vitova to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the approval of the judges of the Lutsky District Court of Volin County, Andrey Sovitchuk and Alla Bornos, has ruled unjustly. Mikoli Giga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective response measures for the implementation of the terms of the contracts of the Naftogaz National Shareholder Company on the completion of the work on the gasification of the urban areas of the Murovano Kurilovsky region of the Vinnitsky region. Mikoli Gigi to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Vinnitsk District State Administration, on the immediate action taken to eliminate the consequences of the extraordinary event that resulted from the failure of the soil in the village of Sapizhenko in the Chargorod region of Winnitsky, the provision of state aid to affected families, and the conduct of an urgent technical expert on the state of the dwellings of residents of the area. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the need to take action to stop the construction on the shore of Lake Bilogo on the avenue of Heroes of Stalingrad, 49-B in the Obolonsk district of Kiev. Roman Shugal under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the baseless failure to pay wages to teachers of the village of Bilozury of the Cherka district of Cherkas region. Viktor Butkowski is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the legality of the actions of officials. Groups of National Deputies (Kirilenka, Zelika, and others) A total of 5 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to investigate the facts of the theft of budgetary resources and to exceed the official authority of the Belgrade-Dniestrov region of Odessa. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prohibition of the construction of the Kaniv Hydroaccumulation Power Plant until it is fully understood its value, environmental damage and the re-launching of extensive public hearings with the inhabitants of Caneva and the Kanow region involving independent professionals, representatives of the ministries of profile, environmental organizations and national deputies. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of launching the Palmir sugar plant in the village of Palmyr of the Zolitani region of the Cherka region this year, which will provide residents with jobs and unbreakable water supply, as well as on the "reorientation" of the social infrastructure of the village and the reduction of its dependence on the plant at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Tomenka, Kurpila, Raupova) to the executive responsibility of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the abuse of the monopoly as a provider of software service by the Society with limited responsibility for Zeonbud. Sergija Kaplina under the executive responsibility of the Head of the Antitrust Committee of Ukraine to carry out an economic justification test for the increase in tariffs for motorists in the city of Poltava. Alexia Kayda to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of illegal financial transactions and for the implementation of criminal schemes for State-owned funds, particularly largely by the Private Shareholder Association RADICAL BANK. Alexia Kayda, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inadequacy of being in office and on carrying out criminal orders from representatives of the public authorities during the peaceful protests of citizens during November 2013 - February 2014, the head of the Ternopil City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Alexander Hilluk. Michael Golovka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of military cooperation with the Russian Federation. Mikhail Golka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the conduct of an examination of the activities of the director of the National Institute for Cancer Igor Szczpotin. Anatolia Denisenka to the head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Government of the Pension Fund of Ukraine to pay for the decisions of the courts to grant pensions to citizens who have the status of “children of war” under the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. Anatoly of Denisenka to the first deputy head of the State Service of Ukraine from an extraordinary situation regarding the return of benefits from municipal services to members of the army and the primary unit of state fire and civil protection services, released from service at an age, because of illness or after years of service. Sergija Vlasenka to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of former Minister of Justice of Ukraine Alexander Lavrinović. Alexander Onishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the State Information and Information Protection Service of Ukraine, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, for the transfer of the branch of the specialized power company of the Public Shareholder Association "Kretelekom" to the municipal property of the territorial community of the city of Prejaslav-Hmalnicki Kyiv region. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of compressed gas at the premium prices of consumers in the Volin region. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the use by the Minister of Culture of Ukraine of urgent measures to prevent the destruction of architecture and the construction of the national significance of the Roman Catholic Church of St. Nicholas in the Pecher district of Kiev. Maria Matios, under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of the village of Strilkova, in the Hersonian district of Alexander Ponomarov, by the village of Stilkov. Jury Bublika under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, for looting by law enforcement officials and for bodily harm to passengers detained at a roadblock in the village of Chutové Poltava. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the deployment of a resident of the village of Brigadirovka in the Choral Region of Poltava, Eugen Dubina, in 1992 for treatment to the rehabilitation center, according to a budget diagnosis. Mikoli Dzardanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine for Financing the Management of Meliorization in the Mikolai district. Mikoli Dzardanova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on normalizing the situation with the sown campaign in 2014. Jury of Orotyuk to the Acting Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, for the prevention of extermination from military service. Jurija Orotyuka, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal capture of the Smigatorf Child Enterprise, an unestablished criminal organization that includes the acting director of the State Enterprise, Irina Timoschuk. Oleg Heleway is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the improper investigation of criminal conduct according to the acquisition of the Society's property with limited responsibility for the Agroprombudindustry. Oleg Pankevitch to the head of the Herson District State Administration on the use of measures to preserve the production potential and assets of the Open Shareholder Society "Herson Cotton Combine". Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for taking urgent action to stop the flood of the Viseiska mine of the Silec Rural Council of the Sokal region of Lviv region in order to avoid an environmental disaster. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of passenger and luggage tariffs for regular buses operating in suburban and intercity inland transport. Sergey Balandin to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the lack of a proper response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the situation that has arisen around the Nicolaus City Hospital of D.A., as well as on the rehabilitation of the hospital staff in its posts. Sergey Balandin under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the lack of response by the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office and the State Administration of the Dnipropetrovsk Region regarding the illegal actions of the arbitration director Alexia Sokol, the delay in payment of salaries at the designated enterprise and the illegal allocation of land to the Welfare Society in the Sofia region of Dnipropetrov. Vasil Gladys to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to address land administration issues and to ensure the functioning of the National Natural Park "Gutzulščina" in the Ivano-Frankov region. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for assistance in resolving the issues related to the activity of the Pristina City Territorial Society. Oleg Tajnibok and Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of the city community to the "Zirka" Sports Complex. Paul Kirilenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Defence of Ukraine, acting as Attorney-General of Ukraine for the possibility of building and bringing Ukraine's naval forces into line with the Ukrainian missile cruiser "Ukraine". Mikoli Palamarchuk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal acquisition by the GenSan limited liability of the right to use more than four hectares of land near the Lisova subway station between the Brovarsky Avenue and Kyoto Street in the right-wing district of Kiev. Yaroslava Moskalenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt payable by the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, which arose under the commitments made. Igora Ribakova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the settlement of the situation, which resulted in the provision of fuel-oil materials for school buses for the transport of students in the region of Chernigiv. Irina Herashchenko is under the responsibilities of the Attorney General of Ukraine to give legal assessment of the actions of military personnel and the leadership of military units, in particular the 25th Air Force of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, who violated the oath of the Ukrainian people and gave arms and military equipment to separatists. Leonidas Bysarov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the implementation of the State Program for the Capital Repair of Elevators. Rostislava Pavlenko and Irina Heraszczenko are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into the actions of the Lenin District Court judge of the city of Harkov and the College of Judges of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal of the district of Kharkiv concerning the election of an inadequate precautionary action by Gnata Cromsky, which contributed to his escape. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, on the resolution of the order of repayment of credits received by individuals in foreign currency. And the final request by Alexander Dombrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the first Deputy Minister of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine for the value added tax in March 2014. These are all the honourable national MPs, the questions that have come. Unfortunately, the session room is virtually empty. I hope this is in connection with the fact that national MPs are discussing the bills that are now being put into the agenda. Well, considering we're not going to be able to work actively right now, I'm calling it a 12-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u44	Unfortunately, we don't have that many deputies who want to keep working, work actively, well, there's a part, there's a part, but there's not. Then, according to the Rules, we work. In accordance with the Rules, we have a 30 - minute break. Then I announce a break of 30 minutes to 12-30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. And you and I have a few important questions that we need to discuss right now. In particular, we actually have a nine o'clock in the morning consultation with faction leaders. The Coalition of Deputies and factions has invited all factions to support and vote in favour of the Supreme Council on a memorandum of understanding designed to help us solve the problems that threaten our country today in the peaceful way just before the great Christian festival. We made suggestions. Our colleagues from the opposition have not yet supported them. And at the direction of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions of the coalition, with such a memorandum, the Head of the Supreme Council, acting as President and Prime Minister of Ukraine, will address the Ukrainian people. I am convinced that all citizens, including those living in the East of our country, should support this position. It solves politically the problems around which either speculation or a difficult discussion is now taking place in society so that we can remove the grounds for speculation. They suggested a democratic solution to the situation in the country. And I very much hope that just before Easter we will be able to find understanding in our country. We want to do so in a peaceful way, without sacrifices, without blood. Dear people's deputies, we need to go with you before we go to the Vulnerable. Colleagues, we've been talking to your factions leaders for four hours now, including the Party of the Regions. And I want to say, my dear colleagues, that we also have a very important question today. [[B in m in s a l in]] There'll be opportunity for everyone to speak, dear colleagues. And now we have a dayly oath made by the members of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with articles 112, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 5 and 9 of the Law (in the "Victory"), "The Higher Council of Justice" were appointed by Presidential Decree: Bondar Sergey Volodymyrovich, Judge of the High Economic Court, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, National Deputy of Ukraine and Mazur Lillija Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u46	What's going on in the hall? Again, again, lawlessness!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u48	Again, without a decision of the Committee, the members of the Supreme Council of Justice. Once again, in the context of hostilities, Parliament has suspended its work for four weeks. What are you doing, Turks??
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u49	Dear Inna Hermanovna, after this Parliament, I wanted to propose a new format of work, and I wanted to offer a new format of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u50	There will now be no oath to the Supreme Council of Justice without a committee of members of the Supreme Council of Justice. What are you doing back in the hall? What you're making Parliament, you've usurped power to the end, now you want to commit a crime here. You waited specifically until there were no deputies in the Chamber so as not to vote on the new regime of work in Parliament. What are you doing? What an endless job! Undeclared indefinite work. No indefinite work declared! And where will anyone come from, tell me? What are you gonna say to people right now? That everyone's going to turn their asses on. War on the doorstep. What's going on, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u51	Dear Inna Hermanovna, please take your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u52	I want to make a full statement. If an attempt is now made against the law to vote on the members of the Supreme Council of Justice, I declare an indefinite hunger strike and invite the deputies to join me. We must put an end to this usurpation of power!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u53	Inna Hermanovna, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u54	I repeat, I will not sit. I'm declaring a hunger strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I very much ask that Inna Hermanovna sit in her place of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u56	I say again, I will not sit down and invite my deputies to join me, who understand what is happening in the country. There's an invasion of power, there's illegal actions, there's pressure on the courts at a time when the border needs to be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u57	Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Herman. I'll let everyone know. Yes, please. Turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u58	(DO NOT HEAR)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, once again I want to say that we have no problem today. We have three members of the Justice Council, members of the High Council of Justice. Dear colleagues, the committee will be held by those elected by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u60	The committee has to go through all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, we are acting in accordance with the law and the Rules. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to ask Inna Hermanovna to sit in my place of work. I'm asking you to take your seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u62	I say again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u63	We've heard you're announcing hunger. I understand only requests in your workplace to starve, please. Dear colleagues, please let's sign up for the factions in one minute. Please sign in. I'll give you the opportunity to strike. Dear colleagues, please make your move now. Who's speaking? Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Tkachuku*.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u64	Alexander Valentine's Day, I appeal to you one more time, please tell me, when all of our co-workers who work for the President's Administration and other positions will be appointed deputies in the Supreme Council and eventually determine where they work either in Parliament or they are in the executive structure of power? Please give me the answer. This question was answered three days ago, but so far there are no results. I'm not going to count all those people, and you know this: Pashinsky, Senchenko, and many others, who are now working in two positions for some reason. Please answer when this lawlessness is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, once again, I support your position and also have addressed the Cabinet of Ministers to all administrations to lay down their parliamentary mandates. And I warned you, if this isn't done within a week, I'm going to go to court. In addition to those who do not violate the status of the national MP, the co-conspirators do not have to do so. Because some of our deputies are appointed by consent, or public principles. Please, Shevchenko, National Deputy Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u66	My colleagues, I just want to urge you not to raise the temperature in the room, because right now in these moments and these days, the country is waiting for very wise and balanced decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head! We ask you about the question of the referendum to make sure that people don't just hear the voice of the authorities. Not a referendum, a memorandum for people to hear not only the voice of the authorities, the Prime Minister, but also your position of opposition. It would be very good to have this memo as a joint document, and for the East of Ukraine to hear that we've come up with an understanding. If we haven't found that understanding, then we have to say, who will be responsible for the events that will result in the East? We ask you very much to do everything to ensure that the memorandum is consistent with power and opposition, and that Ukraine, the only constituency of the Ukrainian State, speak with one voice here. Please don't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u70	May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitalia Zurawski?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u71	Please turn on Vitaly Zuravsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we are the day before the great holiday. On the eve of this great festival, we must say for ourselves, let's do everything possible and impossible to get all the parts of this hall, all the factions and groups that are, and the signed memorandum was signed. In Ukraine stability must come, people must leave the state premises, which, for various reasons, have taken over the fields and streets. Even the most dangerous peace is best served by the fiercest and most successful war. Let's just make peace. Reconciliation is a compromise. Compromise speaks of the mind of the nation, speaks of the mind of the people. God and Ukraine, let's think about it, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u73	Thank you, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u74	Our group urges all political forces to compromise and sign the Memorandum and announce its text to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Martinjak, Sovereign European Ukraine, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u76	Dear Head, please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u77	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! What we have now in the session room reminds me of a chair meeting where one of the professors has always said the traditional phrase: “I did not read the dissertation, but I will say a few words about it.” We're talking about what nobody's seen. This is the first time. So if the faction leaders have agreed on a document, and the Supreme Council has to be there as a background, or it has to take something and vote, let's look at this document first, and then we'll have such a heated discussion here. But I think what's going on in the session room will once again discredit not only the Supreme Council, but it will boost those negative moods that dominate the big day before Easter. So let's do this document first. I beg you not to exorcise. Did someone get caught up in their childhood, or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u78	Please, Orphanage, Freedom faction, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u79	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u80	Please turn on Oleg Bondarchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u81	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentine's Day, if there really is tension in the Hall regarding the acceptance of the oath by the members of the High Council of Justice, let's maybe we should really move this issue, as it did not go through the committee, and we will abide by the Rules, because the Rules should go through the committee. If there are MPs who are against it, we have to move on. The committee will pass, and the next plenary week they will take an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u82	Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u83	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I made myself a promise for the first hundred days not to touch the head of the Supreme Council to give you these 100 days to go through the "young fighter's course." But believe me, what you're doing with the Rules, and what you're doing with us, with the deputies, you've turned us into the worst assembly of colporteurs. Thus, the head of the church is not even yourself with its members of the church, as you conduct yourself with equal standards! And the constant violations, the jumping, what's not in the Rules, you want it because you want it today. Well, why should we discredit ourselves?Oh, my God! So I would very much like to ask that we stick to the Rules. As for the co-conspirators, I have a question. If he is on public policy, does he have the right to be the head of the district or city administration and to issue orders? He's on public policy, that is, he can only advise, not issue. So let us be law - abiding.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first. Wait a minute, I'll give you a chance to speak! First: regarding the heads of district administrations. We don't have a head of the district administration working on public policy. I want to say again, all the heads of district administrations have to be defined: either they work as heads of administration, or they form a deputy mandate. Because the head of administration can't work on public policy. I did not appoint a head of public administration. As far as the President's Administration is concerned, you know, this is a temporary position because the President is going to be elected national -- he's going to have a full administration. Thus, there are deputies, now two deputies who perform their duties, who perform their duties, and on public grounds. It's the only two exceptions. As far as government and district administration are concerned, there are no questions. Dear colleagues, there were now observations. Now, I'll let Oleg Valeriyovich speak. There was a note. I've just invited a representative of the committee. He told me that, really, we didn't have a deadline yet, the week was due for a pre-, let's say, committee discussion. A week, a committee representative told me, it's not finished yet. I didn't have that information. In case there is a problem. I'm taking this issue off the table today by Parliament. It's not a problem. And I think it should be all by the Rules, by procedure. I don't see any problem here, dear colleagues. And you don't need any explosions, no statements, no hunger for this issue. It's very simple to decide, dear colleagues. There's a question -- they've considered it, the profile committee has reported it, and they've removed the problem, they've removed it. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Given that our country is currently in a state of war, military aggression, given that there are terrorist, separatist actions in East Ukraine, the responsibility of the Yanukovich and Russia gang, which, along with the Yanukovich gang, are trying to break the country, I ask you, no holidays, no holidays, just on Easter, when we all have to remember the Lord God and that they are sinful. And keep quiet, and do not lecture, especially on the Rules, those who used to spin the Rules as gypsies of the sun today read the lectures on the Rules. And next week it should be a session until we settle the issue in the East until we calm the country down until we kick the separatists and terrorists out of our country. No weekends, no breaks, everyone has to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u86	I see. Dear colleagues, I've just wanted to consult you, more faithfully, I've already heard a position in many speeches, and I support it. Indeed, the situation in the country is very dangerous, and we must all take care of the integrity and unity of our country. I would very much like the Supreme Council to fully support the memorandum that will be announced today with the Prime Minister. At the same time, we cannot go out on long holidays as planned by the calendar plan. You remember that you and I have made decisions about continuous work, where we have given authority to the Chief of the Supreme Council to determine the schedule, let us say, work during this difficult period of time. So, dear colleagues, there's the next proposal. I would ask the Supreme Council to support it, not by voting, but by its position. Because I have this opportunity to set a time for the next meeting. I'm still suggesting that we don't break up on the 22nd, but we get together on Tuesday. No objection, dear colleagues? April 22nd. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why on Thursday? Dear colleagues, there's an offer, let's consult. I'd like to ask you a question. Because we certainly need a day next week to make decisions. Because I'm informing you that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now. Break. Break, guys. I will complete the briefing of the Supreme Council. I inform you that we have, in addition to the issue of the memorandum, a law on amnesty passed by the government, which we can also accept and vote on. I hope that it will also help to relieve the tension in society and solve the problems that need to be solved urgently in our country. So I heard two suggestions. There was an offer by Oleg Lacha to work, starting on the 22nd, on Tuesday to get together, and then determine the work schedule. And there was an offer on the 24th to get together to figure out the format. I'd like you to raise your hand to the faction leaders who are ready to say, I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Get rid of the faction manager, please, my friends. Please, "Freedom," Alexy Kaida.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u87	Thank you. Alexi Kyde. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich, I think it would be more appropriate to gather the 24th number, Thursday, exactly the day of the vote. But in case there are certain unpredictable situations in Ukraine, you, as Head of the Supreme Council, have the right to assemble us immediately and we are ready either on Sunday or Monday or Tuesday or Wednesday to come to the session hall to urgently resolve the issues that are at stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is this proposal supported by all the deputies? Dear colleagues! Then I announce that the next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on April 24. Colleagues, I have a hearing problem, or you. I've made a statement, I've proposed a 24th. As necessary, I'm going to collect 22nd and 23rd, honorary colleagues. Colleagues, come on. Hanni Mikolayevni, please give me. She knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u89	Mr. Head! Easter celebrations last three days — Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. How is it that we do not have to go to work on Wednesday? We will celebrate the great festivals by staying close. If necessary, we'll meet here. And on Wednesday, as the day is no longer holy, we will meet in the Supreme Council Hall, and we will start our work as normal as the whole country. Why should we celebrate on Wednesday when it's an unholy day? Easter is Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u90	I mean, there's an offer, honourable colleagues, to hold a Conciliation Council on Wednesday, so I understand, an MP? And on Thursday, is it still a big day for us to work? Okay? That we're working on the Conciliation Council on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u91	The committees we work on, I want to tell you, all week, 22nd, 23rd, so on the committees. We don't work on the beach. We work on the committees. So, dear colleagues, once again, the situation in the country is very dangerous. Parliament cannot travel for a long time and leave the country without legislative provisions. So, attention, is the offer supported by the hall? On Wednesday we gather the Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies, factions and committees. And we're having a session on Thursday. A decision has been made. Thank you, fellows of honor! Something like this is unconstructive, so difficult to make basic decisions. Dear colleagues! I now ask Ruslan Volodymyrovich to continue the work of Parliament in the Vizna regime. And I welcome you all, dear friends, to the great Christian festival, Easter. I really want to believe that the love that triumphed over death will win both in our country and we will have harmony, peace, and a powerful great democratic Ukraine will be worthy to bear its blue and yellow flag. With a feast of you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of two factions of the Party of Regions and Communists in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the factions request recesses, and in the form of a recess, I understand, a speech. Please, the head of the faction of the People's Deputy of Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u93	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I think you're doing a very unfair thing. First, when a deputy comes out and asks to say the word, you don't include a microphone, you don't understand why. When another MP raises his hand, you give him your word immediately. What do you have, lovers in the hall? Then, after the meeting we had in your office, there were two sides. It was your side that represented power, and it was our side that represented the opposition. You have made an appropriate statement without giving us a reply so that we can express our views on what is going on and what is being done. As we see, the main problem that we have in this room is that we don't know how to listen to each other. If someone comes out and says here, and someone doesn't agree, there are completely uncultured people here who, apart from plowing, can't do anything, they probably haven't learned anything in their lives. But that's not the point. Today we are discussing the most serious issue in the most serious time for the State. We have, on the one hand, people being killed in the East of Ukraine, and on the other hand, those who simply want to beautify come out. I'm ashamed of that, honestly, just as ashamed as a man. Tomorrow we go to our voters to the East, you send tanks there, you talk to people with machine guns. We told you: let's sit down, write a general memo, find understanding, and tomorrow we'll come to these people, and we'll consult them, whether they're okay with it or not. You're suggesting something. Say it. But you've never been, you haven't met these people, you don't know their point of view, and you don't know what to say on their behalf. And we asked you to do something here first that we can do and then come and consult with them. And only then put it in the room and vote. This is a perfectly normal approach for any normal parliament and for any normal person. You disagreed, you're going your own way, you're going your own way, you're going your own way. And all the responsibility for future events will be with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the hour is now being announced for the various questions. Anyone who wishes, we have until 14 p.m., I stress, a schedule for today’s work. Anyone who wants to sign up for the Vulnerable, please hold the record. The Chechetov National Deputy is invited to attend. To prepare for the People's Deputy Golovkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u95	Dear President, distinguished voters! The more you meet ordinary people, the more you realize that the foundation of wisdom is not MPs and ministers. And the foundation of wisdom is a simple working people, because its wisdom comes from the east, from life itself. Simple people very often ask us the same question: Why do we take a mountain of laws and not make life better and worse? They themselves answer: Yes, for one reason only, that if we adopt a law that goes one way and life goes the other, if the law goes the other, then such a law is not necessary. And that's the only thing wrong with the law. Since such a law requires paper to be published and paper to be obtained, two hectares of forest needs to be cut down, and that is to the detriment of the environment. Today we need to sew up the country. From the reality of life, it should be noted that today 45 million citizens in Ukraine understand, at least once again, I emphasize, understand, at least two languages – Russian and Ukrainian. If a Galician comes to the Donetskian and speaks English, he will be understood. If Donbassa's miner comes to Lviv, he'll start speaking pure Russian, too. So again, I repeat that we have at least two languages in the West, both in the East, and in the South, and in the North, 45 million understand. But half speak Russian, half speak Ukrainian. We need to sew the country today, the women who sew, know that if you sew two pieces of matter together with one line, that's one fortification if you double the line, it'll be twice as strong. Today, we have to sew Ukraine with a double language line, with two national languages — Russian and Ukrainian. That's when we're really going to unite the country and then really be as comfortable as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u96	I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u97	Please pass the word to the National Deputy Illenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u98	Please, National Deputy Illenko. Prepare the people's representative, Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u99	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. It's not the faction of the Communist Party and the faction of the Communists that we have here in Parliament, but the faction of the FSB that only tells them what their Kremlin owners are telling them. They tell us that blood is shed in the East today and that today’s authorities are guilty of everything. They didn't even think of repenting for the hundreds of people they killed here, cutting their heads off right next to the Supreme Council. It's been two months, they're talking about God here, and big Christian holidays, those people who don't repent, and they think it's just going to pass. Today, they tell of the need to sign their memos on Putin’s terms. I have a question: did they have most recently in Parliament, they could have passed any laws, they could have voted with their hands here, and whatever they did, why didn't they even make Russian a second state language, even when it was in them? And now they're demanding it. Why do they demand it? Because Putin gave them this assignment, and they will do whatever the Kremlin authorities tell them to do. Because they're all, half of them are KGB agencies since Soviet times, and for everyone there's a compromise daddy in Moscow, and half of them are the ones who directly get money from Russia and do absolutely everything they say. Let's close our eyes. When they talk about what their voters need to hear, I want to tell you, you don't have to hide from the East voters, they hate you. Because you've been robbing them all these years because your oligarchs have led them to poverty because you've built trenches in the Donetsk region and people continue to die there. Because you've committed total corruption there, you don't have to hide from the people of East Ukraine. Because you're the people who keep robbing them there and you don't have to say you represent them. You represent Putin and the FSB here, not East of Ukraine. I would like to say that today, if we continue this policy, if we think that with murderers with people who haven't even repented of their crimes, we can start building a new country, we won't build a new country. Because in 1991 this whole KGBistsky corporate nomenclature wasn't illustrated, and then we got the country when Janukovic could become President and do all his crimes, now we can repeat the same mistakes. I support the need for compromise and understanding. But you can compromise with the bandits, and you can't hide any high humanitarian ideas in this situation. Because this is not the way to build a new country. If there have been crimes, there must be responsibility for them, and only on such conditions can any further compromise be built. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u100	The people’s representative, Bublik, is invited to attend. Prepare the national deputy, Demiduk. Please, the People's Deputies of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainians! For no one is the secret that in order to destroy the criminal system of the Yanukovic regime, which has led to Ukraine's borders of civil conflict, threats to sovereignty, loss of territorial integrity and socio-economic disaster, Ukraine needs to undergo a thorough cleansing of power. In fact, in this regard, as a national deputy of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens, entrepreneurs are addressing the fact that the banking system is being used to legalize criminal incomes, such as illegal financial transactions and criminal schemes for State-owned funds, particularly large-scale Radikal Bank. As we know, the former owner of Radical Bank, Andri Passky, is suspected of owning more than 500 million dollars using a fraud scheme, namely, to obtain unrefundable land loans with an over-value of 5 times. According to a report by the Ukrainian Security Service, more than 20 people were involved in the scheme, including bank workers and directors of private businesses in the Kyiv region. The media have also written on several occasions about other financial schemes called Radical Bank. In particular, in 2010, it was included in the list of banks authorized to operate state enterprises. Only on commissions did the bank earn millions of dollars a year for the payroll of budget workers. In addition, this financial institution is linked to the former head of the Government of the State Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine, Igor Yakoubovich, and the implementation of external trade contracts, such as the purchase of grains and their subsequent supply to China. There is information that due to the lack of control over the use of funds by the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine ("Eximbank"), part of the proceeds of the food and grain corporation, namely: $40 and a half million, has been found in the accounts of Radical Bank. I therefore require the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine to conduct an objective and comprehensive investigation into the conduct of illegal financial transactions and the implementation of PAT criminal schemes "Radical Bank" and to conduct a pre-planned review of the bank's activities. Thank you. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u102	May I have the floor of the people's representative, Demedyuk? To prepare for the People's Deputy of Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u103	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! Today, I was moved to come up with a few facts that I would like to stop today. First of all, this was a presentation yesterday at the Vitalia Klitschka session, where he rightly said, "The division of the state began in the Supreme Council of Ukraine." How can a nation be grouped together and sewed together at the moment to one end when there is no structure in the work of the highest legislative body of the State? For a year and a half, the Supreme Council did not work, and it was blocked by deputies who are now part of the ruling coalition. Instead of listening to each other and making decisions for the benefit of the Ukrainian people, they shouted, "A shame!".. During the entire time that the country was looted, the introduction to the European Union was thrown into disunity for people as a bone. And for the time being, we can see what that led to. We're told today that the country is looted, we need to stretch our belts. Let us remember that when a new authority comes, it is always said to the people: “Hold up your seatbelts, for the country is in trouble. ” And it turns out, like in this anecdotes, you don't know what to do, you roll on the forerunners. And that's how it goes on for 23 years. The new authorities, instead of seeking a way out of the economic and political crisis in the state, have found a way and have embarked on the ban on the ideology of our party. Dear voters, let's think about who brought the state to that state for 23 years, because in 1991, Soviet Ukraine was one of the ten most developed countries in Europe. It's 86th today. I would like to say, dear friends, don't worry about the ideology and program of our party. She's going to be evaluated for election in the state. And they need to be done by now. Today some politicians are shouting, "Where do you see Nazi fascists?" Let's see what's going on in Volina today. The party's district committee has been occupied by the so-called "Legal Sector" for a month and a half. Is that called "peaceful action"? They're intimidated by party members because they're thinking differently. Presidential elections are approaching. According to the acting president of our state, Valentin Alexandrovich Turkinov, they must be carried out in the most democratic way. Once again, I'd like to lead to your knowledge of what's going on with the Voline election issue. 16 members of party centers gathered to form election committees. "The Right Sector," when he arrived there, beat up the office, insulted the women who were there with uncensored words, which I am ashamed to say today from this high rostrum, and intimidated me into going home. The flag of Victory in the Great Homeland War was destroyed. What's that called? Democratic elections and democracy in Europe? What, is that not fascism? I'd like to take this opportunity to be approached by the border electorates who are now serving with perseverance in our military forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u104	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u105	Today, the foreigner’s salary is 2,000. Please tell me, everyone, to the Supreme Council, today for 2,000 can work "in the rain and in the spring" at night to carry the border guard for 2,000? Please count my statement with a request to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u106	The people’s deputy, Marcinkov, is invited to attend. He's giving the word to the Black People's Deputy. Please. Prepare the Pharion People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u107	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, it is now quite obvious that the only art, art, is, of course, in the paws that the Kremlin perfectly mastered, is the “art” of carrying out a fraudulent imperial war. Today, the war against Ukraine is not limited to anonymous Russian divers who have been miraculously denied by Russia as a double Yanus. Today, war with Ukraine is also fought through information and propaganda. In the eastern areas of Ukraine, particularly specifically, I emphasize that the information that the federation is supposed to be on the path to Ukraine's wealth is, as it were, the way to big pensions and wages, because, as if, large amounts of money from those eastern areas of Ukraine would not be directed to Kiev. And this information goes so massive that people don't actually have anywhere to go from it. It spreads from many sources, and it spreads from, among other things, those officials, unmarked officials, such as the Party of Regions and Communists. It also spreads from Russian television channels, which unfortunately began to be broadcast back in eastern Ukraine today. Today in Luhansk, there is such information, and Russian television stations are retransmitting 40 television companies. In Donetsk, there are more than two dozen television companies that retranslate Russian television channels. This is an information war with Ukraine, an information war that we have no right to lose. That is why Ukraine must behave in such a harsh manner and to the circumstances in which we are faced. All those television companies that are now retranslating Russian channels should be warned that they will have to be responsible for that activity in the future and that they will probably forget their licenses in the future. We're saying, a respected society that we're having propaganda with, among other things, Russian propagandists like Dmitri Kiselov, but we have to answer the questions, and where our Ukrainian propaganda, Ukrainian propaganda, would promote values such as the integrity of Ukrainian territory, our independence and our sovereignty. Unfortunately, the funds allocated for Ukrainian propaganda in Ukraine today are scarce. So we don't actually notice it. We have very many private channels, especially in the east of Ukraine, but they must be similarly united with pro - Ukrainian ideas. They are likely to promote Ukrainian social advertising, which should also promote Ukrainian values. Of course, such questions are questionable; they should be discussed in society. But we have no right to lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u108	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u109	We have no right to lose this information war. And that's why we have to move forward, look for ways, cover up this pro-Russian sneaky Kremlin propaganda. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u110	I'd like to invite the Pharion People's Deputy. Prepare the National MP, Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen! Great in front of the great Ukrainians! Today, it is a huge responsibility to stand before you on a big, passionate Friday and to have the word. That is why my word will be Scriptural. Shewchenko said in David’s psalms that a blessed man would not enter into wicked counsel. That memo prepared by the party's travel policy shows that they're going "to consult with the wicked." Because the three basic plantation things that are trying to shove into this unfortunate quasi-document are talking about what's called decentralization. Decentralization in the execution of the parties of the travel policy is a sign of the feudalization of our suffering country with you. The second aspect is amnesty. If, God forbid, there are voices in our hall, we can find out the complete and absolute banditry of our country. And in the end, the third nuance, which is referred to in a memo called what I think is basic, basic and rod language. And if, God forbid, some kind of mess is going to raise his hand to give preference to the language of occupation in our country with you, it's not called "lingvocid." Lingvocid for Ukrainian. On occasion, I would like to thank the author of the words "genocide" to the outstanding Jewish actor Rafael Vileykin, who introduced the word "genocide" into our space. For centuries, Ukrainian language has suffered untold destruction, unheard of persecution, unheard assimilation, unheard of destruction. And if today's party of travel policy is putting that question at the heart of the memorandum, that's exactly what our nation is really about. For it is our soul. Today, Christ was crucified. Today, Ukraine is cut off because of its soul because of its magnificence, the Ukrainian language. I'm ready to do this to protect our language, to learn how to shoot. Because the only way to talk to separatists and terrorists is through gun language. Unfortunately, our army has been disarmed for 20 years, and we have only one spiritual weapon left. And this spiritual weapon is called the Ukrainian language. Therefore, it was not by chance that the apostle Paul said that the word was a spiritual sword. We will never let go of this spiritual sword. We will never forget the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u112	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u113	We will never forget the message to the whole world from the outstanding French actor Jan Boduen de Kurtene, who said, "Language is the first and last bastion of the defense of the state." We will stop slavery in our country! Slaves are not allowed to enter Paradise. The only language spoken to separatists is gunfire.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u114	The National Deputy Herman is invited to attend. Prepare the People's Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u115	And yet, my people, not to shoot, but to forgive. That is what Jesus taught, who died on the cross today. Don't shoot. I'm sorry. Yet I would agree with the previous report that, indeed, amnesty law cannot be passed. Because they amnesty the guilty and the people in eastern Ukraine who seek their rights are innocent. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would also like to take advantage of the occasion of this microphone, especially today and today normal people do not shout. But you can scream because I doubt you're normal. So using this microphone today, I'd like to go to all of those Ukrainian citizens who lost relatives and loved ones in this civil resistance that's going on in Ukraine, which is going on in Kiev, and in Donbas. All these people have fallen for their beliefs, and I express deep regret over their deaths. I am also glad that in Ukraine between power and opposition, a dialogue has begun between the West and the East. And we're looking for ways of harmony, we're looking for a memorandum that will unite Ukraine and not let it split apart. I believe that after Easter, with which I welcome all Ukrainians and all Ukrainian citizens, this dialogue will continue, and we understand both the authorities and the opposition, to come to an understanding and to do everything possible to preserve the constituency of the Ukrainian State. The resurrection God will resurrect Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u116	To the words of the national deputy, Furman conveys his word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u117	Congratulations, fellow countrymen! Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." We're actually going out on Easter, but we're going out anxiously, because the tension in the state remains, despite the so-called Geneva accords that were signed yesterday, which should have lifted this tension. At the same time, Russia has no direct obligation to withdraw its troops from Ukraine’s borders. There's no obligation for Putin to take his divergent terrorists out of Ukrainian cities where they took state premises. At the same time, I have some disturbing information from a citizen named Irina Ivanov from the Horn of Curve. It says this: "For workers working at the Ingulac Mining Coal, on behalf of former Deputy Prime Minister of the well-known region of Alexander Vilkula, "they're calling for a separatist rally tomorrow to the High Command." It is also known that two buses were taken to the Curve Rig without the national numbers of the green men. So the situation in Bloody Rose is very disturbing. I'm asking the district administration, Mr. Baranov, to pay attention to Curve Rig, to the local authorities, to the local police, to the branch office, and also to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Avakov, Andria Parubia, to the Intangible, to the Intangibles, which tomorrow is planned by Ahmetova Villukol, Minister of Internal Affairs. And I would like to point out to his boss Ahmtov and Villkull that they will be criminally responsible, God forbid, that in Bloody Rose there will be repeated events that were in Slavonic and Kramatorsky. I would also like to draw the attention of Attorney-General Kneczyk, and I would like to take action now. Have a preventive conversation with the same Villuck, the separatists he's aspiring tomorrow at the provocation in Bloody Rose. And I know that most of you Ukrainians, patriots, don't give in to these provocations. Although we do know that from Vilkul there, from one exit to this separatist provocation rally, workers are offered monthly wages. I understand that these are difficult times, that this is big money for you, but the state, its future, the future of your children, the future of Ukraine costs much more. We're all the same country. Stay together, we'll put these separatist bastards in place. And Ukraine will be a big and prosperous country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u118	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Momoth. Prepare the national MP Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u119	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to, for if there is not enough time to greet you with the coming festivals, all is well with you! And now for the earthly. On Monday, I was in my district in Dnipropetrovsk and conducted a personal reception of citizens. Along with my constituents, I am concerned about the problem that we will face in the near future during our summer school vacation. Statistics show that more than 200,000 children were rested and healed each year in Crimea children’s camps. We've lost thousands of places in sanatoriums for children who don't have an alternative today. As head of the Transnistrian Railway in the near past, I am well aware of the social protection of workers and their children, and I realize the importance of supporting people in difficult times. Each year, the railway provided recreation for nearly three thousand children of our fellow workers. Sadly, this year they will not be able to visit children’s health camps in Feodosia and Eupatoria. In the future, schoolchildren will spend summer months in cities, perhaps without adequate care, without conditions to heal and strengthen their immune system. That's a painful question. Therefore, I feel it is necessary to offer measures to solve the problem. This should be a priority for any government, for any authority. We need to take clear steps to develop sanitation infrastructure for children. I propose to create a state commission to address the issue of child health and rest, by creating new and rebuilding closed institutions on the mainland of Ukraine. The program should be implemented in the next 2-3 years with a clear list of objects and deadlines. The State must guarantee compliance with business arrangements that will contribute to the development of children’s rest and health infrastructure. I'm sure we'll find support among both the heads of state enterprises and among the children's private businesses, it's a guarantee of a successful future state. It is our duty to create all the conditions for preserving the health of our children and grandchildren. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u120	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Ilika.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u121	Good afternoon! Good Health! Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency, Drogbychina. Of course, the main topic today is the Ukrainian-Russian war, the Ukrainian-Russian war of 2014. And why is there such a hysteria on the side of the regionals, on the side of the Communists? What is happening in Ukraine, not according to the script written in the Kremlin? Perhaps what began to produce the first fruit of the payment of monetary compensation is called a head. According to official reports, the first official award for the so - called Russian divergent, the green man, has already been paid. Or perhaps it was because the Mariupal army showed a higher class of behavior when they tried to attack these military divers. Despite the fact that the part that was tried to capture was reinforced by the Omega helicopters, the military honourably carried out their duty, their military duty to the Fatherland. It should be added that they too received a solid monetary reward. Also today, despite all the problems and risks reported yesterday, a series of powerful rallying events took place in the East. In particular, in Donetsk and Lugansk, thousands of Ukrainians came out to demonstrate their unity with Ukraine. And this is despite the fact that there are numerous Russian provocations in the cities. Of course, all members of the Ukrainian Parliament applaud the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians of the East for their determination, for their courage and belief that this is just the beginning. This is the beginning that drives hysteria between the regionals and the communists. Judging from the rhetoric of the Russian Führer, his state is now somewhere between 1910 and 1920 on the verge of two empires, Russian and Soviet. At the same time, the theory of "racial superiority" is flourishing, which has further led to the emergence of fascist movements in Europe. And he actually claimed his affection for her to be de facto, claiming that the population of Western Ukraine was second-rate. Dear colleagues, I represent Western Ukraine here in Parliament, and I find it repugnant to hear similar accusations from the Kremlin dwarfs. But today is a terrible Friday, after the day we will celebrate the resurrection of Christ, I want to welcome all Ukrainians with the greatest holiday, with the resurrection of Christ. Christ the Resurrection, resurrected and Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-18-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for today's plenary meeting is over. Before we finish our work, I welcome you to the coming festivals, I wish you a deep, sincere, frank conversation with the Lord today, a beautiful, merry Easter Sunday, a delicious fine meal that you will share with your families, with your loved ones, with your loved ones. So, dear friends, I wish you the most sincere, grandest feeling you will get by talking to the Lord in prayer in these days. Christ Voscres! The truth of Voscres! [[Applause]] Thank you. Good-bye!
