ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. I inform you that today's birthday is celebrated by the national deputy of Ponomarov Andri Viktorovich. Say hello to him. [[Applause]] Please activate the "Council" system and register Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:03:18]] There are 322 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Dear colleagues! I inform you that the Armed Forces and the National Guard continue to actively attack terrorists and criminals. And the actions of our military are effective enough and effective. I have the conviction that it is through the active actions of our Armed Forces, our National Guard, that we will completely clear the terrorists and free the invaders from the east of our Ukraine. Both Donetsk and Lugansk will live again in peace and work together for a powerful, powerful Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I would also like to inform you that an outstanding Ukrainian writer, a patriarch of Ukrainian literature, won the Chevchenk Prize by Anatoly Dimarov. Please honor his memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. People's deputies, please sign up for the speech. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine Pazinjak, faction of Fatherland. Please. Colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u2	I give you the word Gregory Nemiri of the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u3	Please, Gregory Nemira. Turn on Gregory Nemira's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u4	Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the Association Agreement was signed last week. We should not remind everyone that this is not just an act of signing, it is a step towards consolidating the historic choice of Ukraine as a European country. Let's not forget that the slogan "Ukraine is Europe" wasn't the slogan that was invented by the technologists and politicians, that's the topic, that's the focus of the Ukrainian people. Today, as we are with you here in Kiev, the Moldovan Parliament is meeting for a special session to ratify the Association Agreement between Moldova and the European Union. The next week, the Parliament of Georgia will do so. I want to remind you that when Ukraine completed the negotiations on the Association, neither Moldova, nor Georgia until that point, and they didn't get close to that stage. This week the Romanian Parliament will ratify this agreement. This will be done next week by the Parliament of Latvia and other member countries. We think it's a matter of political responsibility for the Supreme Council to ratify the treaty this week. Ratification of the treaty is the best anti-terrorist operation that an independent, sovereign, European state of Ukraine can carry out. That is why we urge the President of Ukraine to immediately submit to the ratification of the text of the Association Agreement, including the deepened area of free trade. I would like to inform my fellow members that yesterday the Committee on European Integration considered this issue and decided to ask the President to submit this document for ratification. Today, the Supreme Council has registered a draft ruling with a similar recommendation to the President of Ukraine: an immediate submission of the text of the agreement. The Fatherland faction is in favour of ratifying the Association Agreement. Tomorrow, Thursday, the traditional day is set for this. Once again, this will be our best response to unprovoked aggression in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you. As soon as the President makes a treaty for ratification, we will immediately consider it in the session room. People's MP Packaan, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Firsov Pavlovich, representative of Donetsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u7	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u8	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! Last week I worked in the Donetsk area in the ATO zone, talking to my constituents, and now I just have to tell Donbass what they say and what people want. Don't believe anyone who says Slavanski needs Russian right now. Don't believe anyone who says Kramatski needs decentralization. All Donbass needs is peace and quiet. Everything about those areas where hostilities do not take place, people say the following in one place. First. People demand a total reload of government and local authority. In addition, local elections are only a first step. Well, think of it, out of the 18 heads of the district government 14 are also appointed Yanukovic. People look at the state's vertical and see absolutely no change. Starting with the district office, ending with the head of the district police, all of them are Januković's pawnshops and helpers and the chief separators of separatism. Humans therefore require changes in personnel. Second. People require early elections to Parliament. The question is often asked: Why are there 450 people’s deputies and 300 going to work at best? Where are our major MPs? Why aren't they defending our interests? Why did they self-destruct? Why aren't they helping us? Therefore, Donbassu needs new representatives in Parliament to represent and defend their interests. And third. People are concerned about Donbass' overall future, which will be with Donbass tomorrow. All infrastructure is destroyed: bridges destroyed, wires destroyed, promising young people left, and progressive entrepreneurs also left Donbass. People don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. Water shortages, increased criminogenicity. And it's only an hour of questions that need to be resolved. It is therefore necessary for the Government to include these issues in the Donbass development plan. We are all forgetting another problem that nobody is centrally addressing is the problem of refugees and displaced persons. Officially, more than 60,000 have left Donetsk region. But let me put it this way: last week, I was driving from Donetsk to Kiev, and every fifth car was with princess numbers. So far, centralized for refugees is not being done by the State, and these people can be understood, they have lost everything: business, work, real estate. For example, it is necessary to create a single "suspensive window" for the Indonesian entrepreneurs to be exempt from taxes for a minimum of 6 months until their business is "on the tracks". Therefore, the working week of Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u9	Give me half a minute to finish the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u10	should begin with the establishment of a single State authority to resolve all these issues. Logically, it must be the Ministry of Crimea and Donbass, which would solve all these problems in the complex. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u11	National MP Brichenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u12	Please give me the word of Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u13	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to draw attention to a number of problems regarding the situation in the East today, because my encounters in the military, on the border with our military, officers and soldiers are forcing me to speak publicly about a number of problems that we had to solve together. The first problem is the activity of the military. And I think, Alexander Valentine's Day, we're going to encourage both the Ministry of Defense and all those responsible, perhaps, to analyze, see where it's necessary to replace the heads of the military. Because today there is a situation, which is a huge number of trained people who have been through wars prepared in the Ukrainian army for budgetary expenses that voluntarily want to be in the East. They can't make it to the East. Instead, they take those who have families, they have children, two, three who are not interested, and they do not want to be in the East. And there's both a moral and a psychological situation where we're in the training centers where I've been getting those people who, contrary to their will, are in pre-ATO pre-op centers. Instead, thousands, tens of thousands of people want to protect Ukraine, and the army is playing with old corruption schemes. The second problem is the problem of displaced persons. I think we need to make it clear to the government that the final decision that today's level of migration coordination headquarters in Ukraine has been made on the principle that the Deputy Chief of Regional Service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is the Chief of Staff for Migration. What will he do? What authority does he have? Today, the head of the district administration, at least the first deputy head of the district administration, has to be the head of the headquarters, because the settler needs to be fed somewhere, maybe to go to the hospital and find a place to live. So I don't think it's an adequate decision for the government, because we're here today. for there are positive sides to every calamity and war. Today is a unique opportunity in the west, in the center of Ukraine to show people from Donetsk and Lugansk region that we don't have two or three varieties. By the way, I'm telling the prosecution that it would be necessary to open a criminal case and put those people in 2004 who divided Ukraine into three classes and prepared today's opposition, because dividing into three classes was the beginning of the elements of the war that are now in the East. As they have been dividing the whole of Ukraine in recent years, they have provoked it, and Putin has taken advantage of it. That's why working with displaced people today is a priority for the government, not for lower-level departments. And finally, my friends, I'd like to stop a bit of the heroism of the deputies. I heard yesterday that everyone there wants to be determined to accept and fight in the East. We don't have to take the decision, we have a lot of participants in the fighting that we've seen on TV. You want to fight-- take your weapons, go to the front, you don't have to come out here and paint when you want to help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u14	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u15	Go to the border, help me, I know dozens of deputies who, when the session is not working, help organizationally, technically, militaryly, morally, and do not beat themselves in the chest. So all Ukraine today should be in the East, every deputy should be in the East, and then we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u16	People's MP Miroshnichenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u17	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom. Dear Ukrainians! For the fifth month, I've been fighting with my brothers from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association on the issue of the security of the information space in Ukraine. We have a war going on, but the war continues with Russia against Ukraine not only in the eastern borders and not only in the annexed Crimea, but also in the information space to which people who still have a bearing on power remain indifferent. Information space, once again, is a matter of national security. Now let's see what's going on in our information space. Series: "Homicide Section Chronicle", "Murder Force", "Prosecutor's Check", "Investor-2". ICTV: "Save the boss," "Simple Life", "Immediate." Ukrainian TV, Plus and Pinchuck's STB are on Intergirls. It's all the content of the neighbouring state -- Russia, Putin, who's zinging and fighting against Ukrainians with the product on our television channels. How long is this going to take?Oh, my God! Let's go to the First National Channel. Let's see what's going on on the government channel that's funded by our money with you. It is managed, I recall, by Alasania, Leyev, and Yurlova, such a lady. Who is Zurab Alasania? Zurab Alasania is the man who says, "I'm not against Russia or Ukraine." He runs a national television channel. The person who shut down more than 30 Ukrainian content programs, including the Star Step program, where children could show their Ukrainian folklore talents. Who's Leev? This is a comrade who said in Crimea, "New power is a new opportunity. And Mrs. Jurlova, who now controls television, is very close to Zurab Alasania’s man if you trust the media and the pictures from the sources of social networking. I called on the Attorney General's Office to investigate public television on the First National, not because I don't like journalists, but because public television for the 12th anniversary of the month has six and a half hours of air on our First National Channel without any competitions and no contracts. Do you know how much it costs the state? Seven hundred thousand dollars a month. Question: Under what conditions did public television come to the First National and without any competitions took up this niche? Today, we have a surprising government order. If one and a half thousand NTCU workers are unable to provide day-to-day language on the state channel, it means changing management, which means witnessing ineffective management and witnessing an information war against the Ukrainian state. It's no use watching Moscow's invaders use our information space in the war against.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u19	Because the informational weapon, once again, is killing no less than an automatic weapon. So let us be vigilant and protect our information space. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u20	People's Deputy Princely, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u21	Thank you. First of all, I want to support what I said in this rostrum of the Miroshnichenko Games, and I'm going to be dealing with the problems of the information space, but not only with it. On one occasion, it seemed that after our Revolution we had woken up in another country, but we did not feel it at all. Once upon a time, all the democratic forces would have to unite to carry out reforms in the country and join the European house as soon as possible, but everything was going back to normal. We still do not understand why we should not ratify the Association Agreement with the European Union as quickly as Georgia and Moldova did. Is there any reason for this? Maybe they're asking our Western partners? But then the President, who showed Janukovic's pen here, who he refused to sign the deal with, should come here and tell us why we shouldn't rush into ratifying this agreement. We should be here, in the hall, honestly discussing why a draft Constitution is being proposed, which is essentially the crux between the Janukovic Constitution and some European patterns, and why should we return to this Janukovich Constitution? We need to make clear why the President's representatives in the seats behind the new Constitution should regulate the actions of government officials and actually restrict the activities of a government that is independent in the parliamentary-presidential Republic. Yes, we all read it, but we remain silent. Why can't we talk this out in the open at least for the unity of all those who want to change our country? We finally have to say why we're quietly proposing an election bill that actually leaves the old system, where half are elected in small majority districts by corrupt representatives of the former government and people with misunderstood political views, and half by lists. Why aren't we discussing the same, from my point of view, enough quality of Rudzikowski's bill that Klukkowski was preparing? Why aren't we discussing the bill now being submitted by Fatherland, our own bill, on proportional lists, but open proportional lists? Why are we not having this discussion when society expects us to vote? There are no questions about it, since it seems as if new people will come, but they will be able to act just as Janukovic did, but a little softer so that no one will notice anything. Somewhere under the table, we'll flip the maps and leave the management system. In order to leave this system of administration, we cannot appoint the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. How many times do we talk about the fact that this council has to have personalities, people who have put their name and honour in the service of Ukraine, and famous lawyers, famous professionals -- people for whom it will not be ashamed. Once again, under the carpet, the people who run the big teleholdings want to leave the system that it was. It's like making a social speech in a language that's public, and it's still going to be called News Holding's ad. The government is arguing that this holding is anti-Ukrainian, and UT-1 is about advertising. Igor Miroshnichenko has already talked about this. I called Mr. Alasania. No reaction, except that "we're not responsible for this, because we sold someone this time." If we treat the country this way and its future, there's not going to be a third Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u22	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u23	There will be a normal rebellion here that will only harm Ukraine. We all need to unite in order to build a civilised European state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u24	People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Six years ago, the Council of the International Relations of the Russian Federation approved a new foreign policy doctrine. In fact, it is the embodiment of quasimistic Russian chauvinism. It has three very bold concepts: the so - called divided people, the so - called need to protect the Russians around the world, and it seems that Russian sovereignty is spreading to Russians around the world. In fact, this is the plagiarism of Putin, Adolf Hitler, in 1939, and Ukraine has already become a victim of this concept. At the same time, we are in the middle of Ukraine, unfortunately, today cannot resolve urgent issues to block the expansion, the expansion of this imperial doctrine. Yes, despite my performances from this high rostrum, on the talk show that millions of Ukrainians are watching, so far we continue to sponsor terrorism every month. Out of ten people in Lugansk and Donetsk region who turned off progressive Ukrainian channels, such as 1+1, 5 channel, other democratic channels, continue to broadcast channels from Russia that extract propaganda information crap and spread it to Lugansk and Donetsk region. This is done, and I am responsibly stating that a person whose appointment was a mistake, an extremely dangerous mistake, is a new authority: the Director - General of the State, Derspekszwezgeek Zvierev, who also happens to be the godfather of Sevkovic. We're counting a million dollars a year to fund the electricity supply of these towers. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give the task of dealing with this issue and to make immediate human resources conclusions. Next. We must continue to fight against Kremlin agents inside Parliament, particularly the Communist Party of Ukraine. Yesterday, Oleg Lášk and I registered a bill that will allow us to cancel the registration of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I would also like to take this opportunity to convey the wish of Mr. Dubnevich, a deputy from Lvivščina, to give us the mandate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the European Society to allow exports of helmets, Kevlar helmets and vests to Ukraine. Similarly yesterday, I registered a draft decree on the closure of rat crossings under the land of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We'll have to pay the bills of the common people! We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u26	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u27	We will not be able to escape responsibility, but we must find a wise solution so that the story of the Frost does not repeat itself. When decisions were made for the children of war, the children of war fell to sleep, including European courts, and there was no money for that. And the last. This Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to be restarted. Let us take courage and make decisions about the elections! I will end with the words of my great countryman, Krabrovoda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u28	Thank you, thank you. We've already given you half a minute. You'll have the opportunity to speak. National Deputy Bondarenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u29	Herman, German.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u30	He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u31	When Mr. Head here this morning greeted our deputies with a birthday, I remembered, and I would like to remind myself so gently of this and the authorities that today is the birthday of the Donetsk region. All those years, 20 years and more of Ukrainian independence, the Donbas workers were rewarded on that day, and Donbas was rewarded on that day. Today, too, is rewarded, posthumously, by the truth. I wanted to bow my head to all the people today, in front of all the people who live on Donbassa, on Donbassa, who is bleeding today. A few weeks ago, here on this rostrum, there was a representative of the miners, a man who had been working on a mine for over 30 years, who was a hero of Ukraine, but he was not allowed to speak because he spoke Russian, and a few deputies came out and knocked him down. I thought about how much it hurt to look at his brothers and all the people in Donbas. But even so, even though there are voices from this hall about making trains and discontents to take to Russia from Donbas, as once did Lviv to Siberia (100 thousand people were taken from Lviv dissatisfied to Siberia), how did this end? That 300,000 -- their relatives, their loved ones, their children -- stood still and didn't let those who exported them do what they wanted to do on our land. Donbas won't. But even though Donbas has a stepmother in the face of the Ukrainian capital today, even today we're going to say to Putin that he's going to protect the Russians in Ukraine in all ways, we're going to say, "Thank you, but we don't have to. We'll make our own arrangements in our country." The party of regions continues to insist that it is necessary to return to the peace dialogue on Donbas. Peace is the foundation of further political processes, and our position in this is unchangeable. The algorithm should be: first, peace, then, changes to the Constitution: real, not words, decentralization, Russian language and financial independence, and then elections. I hope very much and very much that a party of wars in Ukraine will not overcome common sense in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u32	People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u33	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Of course, the lesson of all previous presentations is the situation in the East. Of course, this situation lies and lies through the heart of every Ukrainian citizen, every Ukrainian citizen who experiences this situation. But let us not forget other topics that similarly concern every Ukrainian in our country today. And I'd like to say a few words about the problem of rising housing prices in Ukraine. Of course, the increase in gas prices for Ukraine several times, which has resulted in such a voluntary, unilateral, Russian Federation, forces the authorities today to make a completely unpopular decision, including the increase in housing and utility prices, the rise in prices, tariffs, and, among other things, the increase in gas prices for the population. But we need to understand, on the other hand, that there are social programs today that clearly protect every small family from such a rapid rise in housing and utility prices and gas for the population. Today, there are at least two programs in Ukraine. The first is a subsidy program that is now being used by about one and a half million Ukrainian families. The second programme recently approved by the government is compensation for rising prices for residential services. All families where citizens' incomes are lower than their subsistence minimum, all tariff increases will be compensated by the state. All the funds that are needed today are provided for in the State Budget of Ukraine. But we're worried about something else. The UDA factions are traveling all over Ukraine today, and they're meeting people. And what we see today is that people just don't know about these social programs. The government seems to want to protect them, but it doesn't inform people that there are such social programs. That's why the impact faction requires the government and the local authorities to step up information for Ukrainian citizens about social programs that protect people from rising prices and tariffs, from rising prices for residential services. And the second. The hit today requires the government and the local authorities to treat every person who comes in charge of social protection and wants to form appropriate social assistance. An official should not give up on a person as a mere fly, each official is obliged to help a person to form the necessary social assistance. The official is obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u34	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u35	An official is obliged to help each individual to form a grant or material aid for the benefit of others. a human. So if you're dealing with civil servants today, contact the impact faction with specific names. We will defend the rights of every human being in this difficult time for the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u36	National Deputy Butkovsky, faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u39	Andrei Ponomarev, 61 constituency, Donetsk region. First of all, I appeal to Ukrainian citizens and to the inhabitants of my native constituency, representatives and residents of the town of Snezny, Dokuchaevska, Amvrosiev region and Starobeshev region. You know, today, on my birthday, I realized that I hadn't completely turned myself into a producer or a politician, a politician, to understand most of this room, a synonymous hypocrisy, a Pharisee and a crow. Honestly, I don't regret it. Therefore, a word or promise has been made to me somewhere, regardless of who, wherever and when, is the highest category of moral responsibility. I also think that the President's words mean something to him too, so it was a little bit unclear to me when, more than a week ago, the President spoke to the people of eastern Ukraine, along with the other Messes, about the lifting of treasury restrictions and financial payments to the east of Donbass. "The fresh tradition, to believe with difficulty." For more than a month, as residents of the town of Snow: pensioners, budget workers, social workers, not a penny. You can imagine that people can't buy medicine, water, and live in basic human conditions. You know, I'm told: it's not safe there. Then, where the logic is, explain to me: through the town of Sneznoe, through banking and post offices, money is transferred to neighbouring areas (for the Shakhter region, Amvosiev region and the town of Schachterska). So that's where it comes in, it's transformed, it's distributed. I don't understand! Next, if it's not safe, why pay the miners? Right, the miners did the right thing, because the labour guard has the right to get priority, of course. But where are the hostages of closed medical facilities? Why here, excuse me, a woman's prison?Oh, my God! Women, I'm talking to you, which month can't pay a penny! You know, a week ago, in a sessional room, I offered someone here who was sitting, to go to the territory of my hometown. It's not like it's 20 miles away or 200 people with security. To live, to work a week as I live there, to walk around people, to take care of water, to walk through career boots, to go down the mine to listen and determine. I propose once again to everyone sitting here tomorrow morning to go to 61st District and see how safe the town of Snow is. I'll tell you, it's safer there than next to Parliament in Kiev -- what happened yesterday! I know what I'm talking about! One of my fellow countrymen here would have told me what Donbass people wanted. What does he know?Oh, my God! You know, according to the heads of the Rajad administrations, I don't know how to do it in other districts, but thanks to the heads of the Stabeshev district and Amurosiev region, thanks to the mayors of these cities, it will bring back the Secretary, you know, peace, at least, the world is relative, peace inside, peace and no crime of the house.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u40	Let me finish. Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u41	My proposal remains valid. I sit there who wants to come with me. We'll go to work, eat a week and listen. By the way, the only thing you don't know is that people are demanding to ban television broadcasts from the Supreme Council because I've never seen a bigger separatism planter, more out-of-the-box perverts. Thank you for your hard work! You don't know what to say? Donbassu glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! I want to inform the representatives of the Party of Regions that it is because the terrorists, who, by the way, are supported by individual national deputies, have captured the central authorities of the National Bank in the Donetsk and Lugansk region of the Treasury, which is why, thanks to the terrorist activities, the possibilities of listing social benefits in many areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region today are limited. But these regions will soon be freed -- and people will get, as they have the right under the Constitution, and pensions, and wages, and a peaceful life will return to Donbas, despite the provocations and terrorists. Please make your last speech. Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u43	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, national MPs! All of us, when there is a war in our country in the East, should be in the Supreme Council on issues of defence support, the integrity of our nation as a whole. And so, all the secret tools of terrorists, get out of here, don't stop Ukraine from going along a European path! Because, in fact, you're going to be taken to the villas soon. And now I would like to turn to it, to say that if there really is a war going on there, and let's call things our own, there is an undisclosed, undeclared war of the Persian Russia against our country. And if there is a war, we need to provide our military personnel who put their lives there for Ukraine, adequate legal security and legal support. Therefore, it is necessary for the President to finally dare, and society expects the continuation of Peter Prashenko's firm and decisive steps, to take the courage and to sign a decree on the introduction of martial law in the eastern part of the country. This will resolve the arms of our military, and they will feel legally protected. And the second question. Look, Moldova, Georgia is already ratifying the Treaty with the European Union this week. What are we waiting for? What intrigues prevent the President from submitting this Agreement to the Supreme Council? The Fatherland faction insists, asks the President: submit the Agreement with the European Union to Parliament, we will ratify it this week, the votes in the Supreme Council are under it. () [[Applause]] Therefore, friends, there are now two important problems in the country that need to be immediately, without delay, decided, is the establishment of a military state and the ratification of the Agreement with the European Union. Everything else is secondary. We win the war, we protect Ukraine, everything will be fine in our country. We need to act firmly and decisively. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, we have completed the speeches of the national MPs. I'm asking you to listen to the announcement. In accordance with articles 59.60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment of the seventh "For Peace and Stability" Group of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was composed of 32 Ukrainian National Deputies. National deputies of Ukraine were elected as members of the MPs: Gruszewski Vitali Andriyovich, Balitski Evgen Vitaliyovich, Jury of Aleksandr Andriyovich. Dear colleagues, the two factions demanded that they be given the opportunity to consult and take a break. I understand that instead of a break, it's a faction: "Paternity" and "Freedom" -- instead of a break, there's an opportunity just to make a statement. Yes or no? Please, National Deputy Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich with a statement from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Fatherland faction and the Freedom faction have asked for a break to express their views on issues that have a bearing on both the present and the future of Ukraine. We are deeply concerned about the terrorist and Marauder activities of terrorist gangs led by the Russianputinian. We are concerned that the procedure for the ratification of the Association Agreement signed last week is delayed. In this regard, I would like to say the following. On June 27, a historic event took place: The President of Ukraine signed the Association Agreement on behalf of the Ukrainian State, accompanied by representatives of Moldova and Georgia. Unlike the Moldovan and Georgian Association Agreement with the European Union, the Ukrainian Association Agreement met very, I would say, a dramatic fate. If the Moldovan Parliament is going to ratify this agreement tomorrow and the Georgian Parliament is going to ratify the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union next week, it is in a suspended state. I would like to remind you that it is precisely through the decision of the government of Yanukovic-Azarov to terminate the signing of the Association Agreement that the Dignity Revolution has taken place for more than three months. They paid 106 Ukrainian citizens for their lives. Dear friends! The question is, who would benefit from delaying the treaty ratification process? Obviously Russia. This is evidently due to the fact that, on July 11, tripartite consultations between Ukraine, Russia and the European Union on the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. The question is: Who would benefit from this? Russia's comfortable. Is it convenient for Ukraine? That's why our factions are calling on the President of Ukraine to immediately hand over documents on the ratification of the Association Agreement. Thank you for your attention. And I ask you to give the word to Oleg Tsagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u46	Please, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Society, in the context of the continuation of our joint statement, we would like to announce that the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom clearly supports the above-mentioned statement by Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, and we also propose the immediate adoption of 15 bills aimed at countering the aggressor and strengthening national security and which should be approved in the Ukrainian Parliament first. This is a draft decision on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on visa-free travel of citizens of Ukraine and the Russian Federation; on the dissolution of diplomatic relations with Russia; on the suspension of the activities of branches in Ukraine and on the representation of Russian Federation banks; on the application of sanctions to Russian Federation aviation companies for violations of international air traffic rules; on the temporary suspension of accreditation of journalists and technical staff of certain Russian media to Ukrainian authorities; on the moratorium on the supply of Russian Federation military and dual-use goods; on some measures to prevent extremism and separatistism in Ukraine; on the participation of Ukrainian citizens in the protection of civil order and the State border. We insist on the registration of the Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act, as well as three of our decisions to consider today: calling on the UN General Assembly, the UN Security Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe to exclude Russia from these organizations. And, of course, a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the social protection of members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces' families, the Security Service, the State Border Service, the police. Well, and the Law on guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel. We also insist that the Law on Illustration and Prohibition of Communist Ideology be laid down. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Today, too, we need to approve of decisions. I remind you, in particular, that we will now have a cluster of issues related to making decisions in the first reading. I ask that, honourable colleagues, we begin work on the draft Law on Amendments to Article 1058 of the Civil Code of Ukraine (as regards the responsibility of the bank for breaching the terms of the bank contribution (deposit). Please, National Deputy Bullach. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that the whole package in the first reading should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. [[10:49:58]] For-162 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u49	Dear voters, national MPs! Your opinion is proposed for a bill amending article 1058 of the Civil Code of Ukraine (as regards the responsibility of the bank for breaching the terms of the bank’s contract). The main positions of the project are the responsibility of banks for breaching the terms of the bank contribution agreement for timely return of a penny contribution of one percent of the amount of the contribution. According to article 526 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, the obligation must be duly implemented in accordance with the terms of the contract and the requirements of the Code, other acts of civil law. That is why I have drafted a bill that protects the rights and legitimate interests of those who have deposits. This bill is designed to stop the bank’s failure to comply with its obligations under a contract of bank contribution. Especially today, as head of the Subcommittee on Guaranteeing Citizens' Investments and Protecting the Rights of Financial Services Consumers, dozens of appeals from citizens about non-refoulement by deposit banks come to me every day. Our faction has always protected and protected people who are not paid wages, pensions, deposits. We need to create conditions for people who have deposits to receive not only their own funds but also their own pennies for failing to meet their obligations. That's why I went to this rostrum to protect not the banks, but the people, including those under the walls of the Supreme Council. That is why a faction of Communists has drafted a bill that will allow for the protection of the rights of all people with deposits. I think that every national MP in this room is obliged to think now about people who have to go out again, not their own good. I will point out that the Main Committee at its meeting decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u50	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u51	recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine had no comments on the bill. The main scientific and expert office also supported the bill. So I ask all the MPs to vote in favour of this legislative initiative to protect the rights of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u52	Associated with the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Guzenko Kostintin Alexandrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u53	Deputies! A bill amending the Ukrainian Civil Code has been considered by the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy. The bill proposes that banks be responsible for breaching the terms of the bank’s deposit agreement for the timely return of deposits in the form of a penny bank payment of 1 percent of the amount of the contribution for each day of the performance of their duties. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine did not have any suggestions and observations on the bill. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the bill in the first reading and on the basis of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up for the performance. People's Deputy Furman, Freedom faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u55	Alexei Furman, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Markian Lopachak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u56	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u57	Markian Lopaczak, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Indeed, the project proposes to amend article 1058 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which establishes the responsibility of banks for the timely return of deposits by paying a penny in the amount of 1 percent of the amount specified in the contract for each day of late execution. This standard is relevant to Ukraine, as the country’s prevalence of abuse in its dominant position in the market of banks is particularly widespread, especially in the case of the non-return of private investors in economic crises. The state’s entire system suffers from nonrefundable contributions, since it is impossible to use its funds when transferring them to the deposit of natural persons that do not have confidence in the banking institutions. The introduction of financial responsibility for banks for early return of deposits will stimulate banks to discharge their obligations to customers in good faith. In view of the foregoing, we consider it appropriate to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u58	Thank you. National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u59	Please give my word to my colleague Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u60	Please turn on Leonid Hamtz's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Leonid Jemetz, Fatherland faction, city of Kiev. I would like to point out that our "Fatherland" faction has decided to support this bill, because the abuses that are in the area of non-payment of deposits to customers in a timely manner are meant even to include, it would seem, small non-payments, such as on weekends and holidays, when this money is kept from depositors and at the same time banks continue to account for the fines and fines on loans under absolutely similar conditions, shows that the banking sphere systematically introduces abuse schemes that are being suffered by good investors who are citizens of Ukraine. So our faction insists that this bill should have been introduced for a long time and should clearly be supported by the Supreme Council. Because the Supreme Council acts in the interests of Ukrainian citizens and, of course, in the interests of banking business. But the rules of conduct between the parties -- the investors and the bankers -- have to be equal. Therefore, banks have to pay fines and fines for late payments to citizens who have made deposits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u62	People's MP, Hinka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u63	I beg you to pass the word to Sergio Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u64	Please turn on Sergio Kaplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u65	Vitalia Klitschka faction, Kaplin, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. We want to reveal to the Ukrainian people one big secret why banks don't return deposits. 180 banks working in Ukraine today do not return their contributions to ordinary Ukrainian citizens because, some time ago, particularly with the support of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Party of the Regions was appointed Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, who, with the help of a young team from the sons of Viktor Yanuković, was actually building a financial pyramid. They trained most of those 180 banks to live on the wrong principles and principles behind which the world banking system functions and exists: through wholesale lending, through deposits, through long money and so on. They've trained to make money in a corrupt way through refinancing, through refinancing with 20 percent and 30 percent interest. And Ukrainian citizens are now forced to pay for these corrupt sins of Azarov. I am convinced that everyone should be given credit and that everyone should be held accountable. The responsibility here in the Supreme Council for cruising this pyramid of Azarov in its own time. Responsibility for destroying the Ukrainian economy and turning the Ukrainian economy into something that's not understood by people who understand the economy and the principles on which it's built. Our political power believes that it is not necessary to protect Ukrainian people on words, not on such fair documents or on others. There is a court and there is a Constitution and it needs to be implemented. I will personally make an effort to help everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to decide on the adoption of this law in the first reading and ask the National Deputies to sit in their jobs. Before we vote, I would like to make a statement in this regard to the representative of the government. Please. Put the microphone in the government box.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! Unfortunately, the government does not support this bill in the proposed edition, because there are some things that need to be clearly defined. For example, it is possible that a bank institution cannot make a contribution for objective reasons. This, for example, is true when this contribution is frozen by law enforcement agencies. When there's a normative base, the same National Bank that won't let the bank do it. Under this bill, even in such a case, the bank has to pay 365 percent of a year's pennies. This is not very objective and fair. Secondly, the size of the foam itself, under the same Civil Code, must reflect, in fact, the loss of the defendant, the actual loss. 365 percent of the contribution is, in our view, not very fair. And the third. We understand that demonizing banks in this situation is not the right way, because banks have our money in their reserves. And if we order them in some case, we take this money from someone, not from a bank, but from another depository. So in the process, if the first reading is adopted, please consider and supplement this bill with real, clear things that will clearly determine when, in which cases, the bank should pay such fines and pennies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, can we determine by vote? I see two hands. Please, Momot, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u69	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, this law certainly protects bank investors, and it deserves to be supported. But I share the Deputy Finance Minister's warning that 1 percent of a penny is chosen. Why not 5, why not 0.5, why not 1 tenth? Therefore, I suggest that you accept it in the first reading and refine it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u70	The offer is understandable. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. And we'll figure it out. I ask the secretariat to announce to all national deputies who are outside the hall for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u71	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to point out to a representative of the Ministry of Finance that all the right comments that are now coming out of the government's bed could be in the form of proposals and amendments presented to the author of the bill. And in our view, the Ministry of Finance, and the government in general, have to work more actively, including on parliamentary bills. Because in this situation it's not about demonizing banks, it's about justice and accountability. Because one party must have exactly the same rights and obligations as the other. Then there's confidence that we don't have in the banking system right now. And so in the first reading it is necessary to accept, and in the second reading, all those remarks that are not only in the government but also in the deputies should be made, and then the law should be voted on in general. Because justice, unfortunately, is not available today, there is peroxide to the banks. Let's make amends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! We need to determine the adoption of this law in the first reading. Colleagues, we're in a reduced procedure, I've already given the hall the opportunity to speak, let's determine how to vote. Members of the National People’s Party are requested to decide on the adoption in the first reading, i.e. on the basis of the draft Law amending article 1058 of the Civil Code of Ukraine (as regards the bank’s liability for breach of the terms of the Bank’s contract), registration number, I recall, 2202. Please vote, turn on the "Race" system. [[11:04:16]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 54 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of the Regions" – 37, "The Impact" – 4, "Economic Development" – 26, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 9, 34 – "Freedom", 29 – Company, 33 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues! On the rereading of the first reading, I understand, an offer? For one more time? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Please, is there a representative from the profile committee? I'm asking Guzenko Costin Aleksandrovitch. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u73	Thank you. There is a request to return to voting, since some deputies have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! I'm asking people to sit in their seats at the right time and vote, we're working on the laws, and we're not supposed to work in the buffet, I'm reminding you, in the session room. Please, Your Honor, the offer is to return to this vote. I'm betting on the vote to return to that question. [[11:05:47]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I emphasize, it is the first reading, that is, acceptance as a basis. I ask you to determine Parliament on this law. [[11:06:11]] For 239. Decision taken. I'd like the profile committee to work on this project, taking into account the Ministry of Finance's second reading proposals. The factions, please. Parenthood – 62, regions – 41, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 25, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, Freedom – 34, 24 – KPU, non-fractional – 39. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on clarifying the authorizations of notaries and the features of the registration of derived goods rights in agricultural land. Please report to National Deputy Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, registration number 3237. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Oleg Kulinic, Economic Development Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The 3237 bill solves two problems: simplifying the procedure for registering derived goods rights in agricultural land and giving notaries the right to access information on electronic media of the State Land cadastre. The system of registration of land leases for agricultural purposes, which began on January 1, 2014, is one of the biggest problems for Ukrainian agrarians. Of the nearly 4 million leases of land for today, only 300,000 are registered, according to the Ukredrzester. The problem is that in order to register derivative goods law, such as land lease rights, first it is necessary to register ownership of the land in the new register of rights. This problem was partially resolved when, since February 12, 2014, pursuant to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decree of October 17, 2013, at number 868, a new order of state registration of real estate rights and their burdens has become effective. But the proposed standards are contrary to the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. Thus, the bill proposes to eliminate such an inadequacy. In addition, there is another problem, notary actions require clients to be removed from the cadastre and then register. Therefore, the procedure takes several days instead of several hours. It's a waste of time, and for notaries, it's an unnecessary responsibility. So we suggest that notaries be given access to the State Land cadastre. This will give them the opportunity to give themselves an extract. As a result, the time for registration will be reduced by at least a third. The bill also contains an innovative norm: it allows the owner or tenant of the land to apply for an electronic registration. This rule is proposed to be introduced for agricultural land immediately and for other land categories from 2018. During the discussion of the bill on the profile committee, there were observations regarding the application of administrative fees to the state registration authorities for violating their public registration. That's why we're the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u77	So we're going to rule out this bill. Given the importance and urgency of adopting this bill, I ask you, Your Honor, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the vice president of the Committee on Legal Policy, Guzenko Kostin Aleksandrovich, reports on this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the clarification of notaries' credentials and the specificity of the registration of derived goods rights in agricultural areas. The bill is designed to improve the registration of land rights derivatives and to ensure that notaries have access to information on the electronic media of the State Land cadastre. In addition, it is proposed in the Code of Administrative Offences to provide for responsibility for violations of legislation concerning the State registration of immovable property and loads. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the clarification of notaries' authorizations and the features of registration of derived goods rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. After speaking to the national MPs, I'd like to ask the government to comment on this bill. Please turn on the "Race" system. The word is given to the people's representative of the Bubble, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u81	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Markian Lopachak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u82	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u83	Markian Lopaczak, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The draft law proposes that notaries be given the right of access to the held land cadastra in order to find information and form an extract for the registered land area when they take notarial action on land. It is also envisaged that the registration of the derived goods right to the land area of the agricultural assignment, which was created and was completed by 1 January 2013, is carried out at the same time as the registration of ownership of the land. The idea of providing a notary of access to the State Land Cadastre for the purpose of finding information and drawing up a plot of registered land is quite progressive, as it will greatly simplify the process of developing and registering ownership of the land for natural and legal persons, since it will not be necessary to address the LLC authorities separately, to stand in line and wait for them to give an extraction. However, in the case of the granting of such a right to notaries, it is necessary to amend the National Land cadastre Act to secure the status of a special subject on which the functions of the State cadastre register are based. It is also worth aligning this law with the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Precautions. In view of this, we consider it appropriate to support this bill in the first reading and to work on the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u84	I got the offer. Please, People's Deputy Philippeenko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u85	Thank you, Mr. Head. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, we have recently started a new system for registering real estate rights, which foresees that ownership rights arise from the moment of registration, from the State Register of Real Estate Rights, both primary and derivative rights. At the same time, those property rights that were registered before this system was put in place continue to operate. But they passed the law in such a way that we don't have to automatically upgrade the new system, and in fact, if citizens have acquired ownership rights before the system worked, then in order to form derivative rights, I mean, for example, the same lease right, it's necessary for this right to be, the original right, to be incorporated into this state register. In practice today we have quite a lot of queues, especially in rural areas, because in this case the situation of registration is quite catastrophic. Because, well, people in the village can't wait months to register until they log in to register property rights to register rent rights. They need to sow, they need to harvest, they cannot wait, and they never could. On the other hand, the question of the registration of lease rights directly affects the taxation regime of the agrarians who exercise this right. Because if the land is not registered, you cannot use a special tax regime, and this also has disastrous consequences for the village. In principle, all majors in rural areas understand the problem. And we are constantly asked by people to settle this gap in the law. So the author's proposals, I think, and the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice, which were also made at the level of the Committee of Consultation, will be taken into account and further developed to the second reading. At the same time, I want to say that there is also Bill No.4201a, which further introduces positive mechanisms.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u86	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u87	Thank you. during the registration of property rights. In particular, this bill, which we are currently considering, please support, and please support the 4201a bill, which went even further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u88	Please, People's Deputies of Doubenkov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u89	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen, the electorate! Your opinion is really presented by a bill that carries very positive reforming trends in registration, the state registration of goods rights to agricultural land. Its essence is, as the previous reporters have already reported, that since January 1, 2013, the system of the Single State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens has actually been working in Ukraine. But with regard to the state registration of property rights on land, we have the following situation. The land cadastre, in the State Land cadastre, is responsible for the registration of technical land data. And the registration of the newly formed land areas, property rights to land and the corresponding derivatives of land rights is done by the State Register. The bill proposes the registration of the property right to land at the same time as the corresponding registration of the derived goods rights to the land. The faction of the Party of the Regions, of course, supports the initiative for the accelerated registration of land rights and derived related goods rights in the specified agricultural areas that were formed before 1 January 2013. Since this will really speed up the process of appropriate state registration, it will increase the legitimate and legally protected interests and legal rights of the respective owners and tenants of land. We also consider it to be a very progressive procedure in the electronic form of appropriate registration, state registration of property rights to land and derivative land rights by 1 January 2018. But we note that there are still some changes to the bill. So we're going to support it as a foundation. But please join everyone in this process of supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u90	People's MP Medunica, please. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u91	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. This bill is actually aimed at solving an important, though perhaps point-to-point social problem, actually narrows down and simplifies the way of registration, especially the derived land rights. And today, indeed, the registration of land leases is accompanied by unnecessary, completely artificial barriers that really do not protect anyone’s right. So it's really necessary to solve this problem. We support this bill on the basis of understanding that there is still a number of editorial amendments to be made in order for it to be fully harmonized with the ideology of reforming in general the system of registering real estate rights and to be fully harmonized with those changes that were already in place this year. And I can say exactly, for example, many of the steps that are now being taken, that the access of notaries, the inclusion of notaries into this system has simplified and reduced the registration path. So we must continue to develop this idea, and the next and most important step facing the government of Ukraine is the harmonization of real estate registers and the Cadastre of State Land. Today these systems are completely broken, technically, at the level of inability to communicate. This, by the way, is an artificial barrier and simply creates unnecessary problems for citizens who need to use or confirm their rights. So we propose on the basis of this bill that we support and move forward towards this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u92	National MP Gordienko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u93	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The bill is extremely interesting, and we share all the same concerns that the authors have expressed. But one thing we pay attention to is that we will not be able to work on, unfortunately, the second reading itself. And I think let's think about it and agree to it. Today, it is important to note that the State Land cadastre is extremely imperfect, sometimes one owner, two owners per land. So if we can access the notaries and multiply these mistakes, it will lead to tragedy. I say again and again, we can't fix it until we read again. Let's think that this bill will only be implemented once we've improved the State Land Cadastre itself. Because this is going to lead to a very big negative for many people. The faction of the Ukrainian Company will, unfortunately, not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I see a lot of hands. We have formally concluded the discussion. Please, let's listen to the Deputy Justice Minister for two minutes and be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Of course, the norm of this project is supported, which allows notaries to have access to the State Land cadastre. At the same time, the following comments should be taken into account when preparing the project for the second reading. First of all, the project provides that when a derivative right is registered, which is the right to rent, there is no document as important as the document that confirms ownership. And based on the Land Rental Act, it is stipulated that land leases are made in simple writing form. This would mean that failure to file documents that confirm ownership during the registration of a derived right would, of course, create corruptogenic risks during the registration of a land lease agreement. That's the first one. The other one. The bill provides for administrative responsibility for certain infringements during the registration of the right to immovable property. At the same time, we need to work out the distribution of this rule, bringing it into line with the Law on Registration. In addition, the bill does not define the official and body responsible for the establishment of protocols on administrative offences and will deal with these cases. That's two. And the third question is also important. Indeed, society needs to solve an urgent problem, such as the registration of a derived land right in an agricultural assignment. At the same time, however, it is not necessary to limit ourselves to the category of immovable property such as the agricultural area. The law requires the registration of derived rights to other types of immovable property. The request on second reading supports these comments. With regard to the bill, which was referred to by National MP Philippeenko, 4201a, it is essential for the state today and a great request to support its inclusion, during the consideration, in this session, and in this session to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, give me one minute of Oxana Sold from the strike faction. They have the right to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The Vitaly Klicka faction supports this bill because it's really important. And I agree with the remarks that the Deputy Minister of Justice has just made regarding the need for this project to be further developed, but again, under the Rules, we will not be able to make any changes if we do not vote in the first reading on which official person will have the right to decide on the responsibility of officials. So I would very much ask the committee, the Head of the Supreme Council, to make a decision about whether we should take it on the first reading, I ask everyone to vote, but provided that the law determines which official would have the right to make protocols to bring officials to account. Because if we don't define it, then a very important rule in the bill regarding the Code of Administrative Violations and the future responsibility of officials will not work once this law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, well, there is a strong insistence on the people's MP. And then I'm going to give the author the idea that he's going to take down the proposal that's been made both by Minustom and by Oksana Prodan. Please turn on the microphone. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u99	Thank you. Alexander Valentine's Day, I want literally 30 seconds to pay attention to one serious observation. Very many land areas are controversial. There are many areas that people judge among themselves today. There are many areas that have been swapped, but they are not legal, and this will cause a great deal of litigation. So I'd just like to make a suggestion and notice that the second reading should take these things into account. And consider, certainly, the responsibility of a notary who will have access to personal information. This too must be anticipated, for once again, I repeat, many court cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kulinich, a minute, comment on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I agree with all the comments that have just been made, and we will take them all into account before the second reading. As far as administrative wrongdoing is concerned, we're prepared to get this rule out of the second reading, and I've already talked about it during the speech. And as for the registration of non-existent rights, I would like to say that the norm in which such registration may be carried out is defined by the current edition of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, in accordance with paragraph 8/1. That's why I'm asking your honourable colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, with the remarks that have been made in both the Deputy Minister and the MPs, with the summation of the author of the law, I ask that we be determined to support this project in the first reading. The registration number, I remind you, 3237 is a project to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts to clarify notaries' credentials and the specificity of the registration of derived goods rights in agricultural land. Please identify yourself with respect to the support of the project in the first reading, that is, on the basis. [[11:26:46]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's now consider a few draft Supreme Council rulings. And I ask that we now move to the draft Judgment Order 2014 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. From the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Igor Tarasovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u103	Igor Yanków, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! The committee received 16 proposals for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self - government from district organizations, and from all - Ukrainian youth organizations. In doing so, the committee should offer only 10 candidates to the Supreme Council for the prize. When the candidates were appointed, the committee came out of the following. Since prizes are awarded for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government, we have evaluated the applicants according to these parameters: participation in the drafting of bills, monitoring compliance with legislation, and the work of local governments. In addition, since the 12 districts and the city of Kiev were represented by 16 applicants, the committee proposed that the prize be awarded by representatives of various areas. Candidates for the award achieved significant results in the formation and development of the youth movement in Ukraine, made personal weighty contributions to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government in the respective regions of the country. Thus, it is proposed to award the prizes to the following persons: Bondar Arsenija Vitaliyovich, Gregory Roman Miroslavovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bondar Arsenija Vitaliyovich is the deputy head of the All-Ukrainian Youth Organizations Association, the All-Ukrainian Council for Regional Youth Development and Cooperation; Grigorisin Roman Miroslavovich is the deputy head of the All-Ukrainian Youth Society, the "Command of Young Vitalia Klicka"; Dmitri's Mikoli Aleksandrovitch is a student of the Black Sea State University of Peter Mogila; Kridenko Volodymira Viktorovich is the head of the All-Ukrainian family.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u104	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u105	the head of the All-Ukrainian Youth Organization, Conscience and Hope of Ukraine; Krutenko Illy Hennadyovich is a student of the Institute of Informatics of the National Teachers' University of Dragomanov; Lukeri Ivan Mikhailovich is a member of the government of the All-Ukrainian Youth Society Youth Democratic Alliance; Masuru Sergio Sergiyyovich - Baltic City Head; Moscow's Maya Yuriovni is the head of the All-Ukrainian Youth Society National Alliance; Shimkovo Ljubomir Petrovich, the youthful city head of Ternopil; And the Splinter Elizabeth Eugenyevne, President of the All-Ukrainian Youth Society of the Ukrainian Association of Student Self-Government. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council in 2014 that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award be awarded for its contribution to the development of parliamentaryism, the local self-government of candidates set out in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the 2014 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government, be accepted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? There's a need. Please have a seat. Please log in, I'll remind you, under a reduced procedure. People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u107	People's Deputy Kaplin, Faction Impact, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I'd like to take this opportunity to appear in front of a multimillion-dollar audience on the "Rada" channel, in front of my colleagues with extremely unpleasant, but information that we have to respond to. A few days ago, one of Poltava's most active activists, one can honestly say, the organizer of Euromaidan in Poltava and Poltava County, a volunteer in the East, was wounded, unfortunately, by one of the instructors who trained him to fight for the sovereignty and integrity of our country. And so one of my assistants, a volunteer who is currently fighting for Ukraine, reported that the leadership of the battalion was forcing Mr. Kobu, a young man, by the way, who is a public activist, one of the leaders of the Polish Youth Movement, to testify that it was a crossbow, so that the leadership of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the East, one of the leaders of the battalion, would not carry the appropriate one. the right responsibility. I officially declare that I will not allow it. And they threatened that my brothers, my associates, who, along with me and the Polish national deputies, had raised this movement in Poltavska a few months ago, would be accused of separatism. I am officially reporting that I will not allow any insinuation on this matter. The perpetrators will be punished. We can protect this guy, and I'd like the Attorney General of Ukraine to take this case under personal control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I remind you that we are still discussing the law. With regard to this issue, please elaborate a protocol assignment. Now I, my distinguished colleagues, ask you to discuss the proposals made by the Committee on Family, Youth, Youth Policy, and Sports, exactly as regards the award of the young prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, National Deputy Guzenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Momoto Alexandr Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u110	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u111	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, today we are considering the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. Six months ago, we held a competition -- an education committee -- for young scientists. Summaries were made, winners were declared. And young scientists didn't even get the laureate diplomas, they didn't get the little prizes that were there. Every day, they ask: "There's no money. Give me a diploma." Please note that this application was submitted to you by the chairman of the Greenwich Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u112	I ask the Secretariat to report on this question and to prepare an appropriate answer. Please, Your Honor, the People's Deputy, the Freedoms faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u113	Thank you. Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u114	Please turn on Irina Farion's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Irina Farion, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This decision is vital not only for young people but also for the entire Ukrainian community, for it is our responsibility to encourage young people to become statesmen. I have no doubt that the committee has taken the candidates correctly, but I would also like to point out for all young people, and for us in particular, that when we put people on certain prizes, we should cultivate a few of the values that we have in some way destroyed in our society. Especially in the youth environment. This is primarily about the cult of work. I hope that this award has actually chosen those people who can work, so they deserve the right kind of fruit. Next. The cult of justice. It is that our society is largely debilitated because business is always at the top. One more. The culture of growth and learning. These young people need to be aware. That we stop learning when we're being taken to the cemetery, and hopefully that's what this bonus is paying attention to. And finally, the most important prize, which is the most obvious in the walls of parliamentaryism. These people, I hope, will become future statesmen. Like most of the members of the Supreme Council, I was happy to associate with the extravagants who work on the various committees of the Supreme Council, and I can say that a new, self-sufficient, strong and free generation really came to Ukraine. And our task is to maximize this generation's contribution to make it happen and to ensure that it does not in any way disrupt ideological values to build a Ukrainian national-centric, self-sufficient state, despite any external factors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote and determine your support for the proposal of the Professional Committee, the Decision (registration number 4140a) for the 2014 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. Please, Your Honor, support this project by voting on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[11:38:13]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 47 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 2, Impact - 30, 20 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 19, All-Ukrainian Freedom - 34, Company - 0, non-fractional - 27. Dear colleagues, I understand, I don't see any questions for the rapporteur and comments on the committee's proposals, but I see that many factions don't speak. Turn on the math, the National MP, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u117	Matvienkov, Mariupol, faction of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I think one of the reasons why the Hall has not now supported these candidatures is the mechanism and methods of approach to the development of this list, and the mechanism and methods for selecting people on this list, the mechanism for determining the winners. This is when the system is transparent, clear and clear when these representatives will truly represent the regions of Ukraine as a whole and when we will really see that it was a competition where they won the really best, then I think there will be no doubt in the room and the room will be 300 votes in favour of such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! I now ask the chairman of the Committee on Youth and Sports to comment on this question. People's MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u119	Good afternoon! Alexander Valentinovich, head of the Human Rights Committee. This is my colleague, Arthur Leonidovich Palatny, the head of the Committee on Youth and Sports. I would like to deny to our colleague who has just spoken that the Committee on Youth Policy has all the deputies present, from all the factions of our Parliament. This procedure was discussed on the committee. And each member had the right to either submit his or her own nominations, or to deny them. This procedure was transparent. And now we need to support our young people with our votes. Parliament cannot be apart from the problems of young people. Because this is our future generation. This is our future. And I ask all deputies to support the Youth Policy Committee's ruling and reward these, our young people, with these bonuses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, let us return to this matter. When I see enough votes, I'll put it to the vote again. I'd like the Supreme Council to decide whether or not to return to this issue. Please. [[11:40:58]] For-167 Decision taken. The factions, please. 49 – Fatherland, region – 0, hit – 30, 16 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, 34 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, I ask the committee to reconsider this question. To consult with factions and be willing to bring them up to date. Still, I am convinced that it is our duty, dear friends, to maintain a promising youth. Especially those young people who by their lives, by their learning, by their work make a real contribution to development and parliamentaryism, and democracy in Ukraine, and are generally working to build a new democratic powerful country. Dear colleagues! And now we're moving on to the next draft of the ruling. This is a draft regulation on the adoption of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the topic "Legislative provision for information society development in Ukraine". Please, the first deputy head of the Committee on Information and Information Technology, Lukyanczuk Ruslan Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u121	Good afternoon, distinguished chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 18 June this year, parliamentary hearings were held on the subject of "Legislative provision for the development of information society in Ukraine". The hearing was initiated by the Committee on Information and Information Technology, with the participation of committees on science and education, freedom of speech and information. The relevance and importance of the topic were evident in the participation of the said participants: there were more than a thousand, more than 50. As a result, we have received almost half a thousand proposals that have been carefully worked out by the committee for active participation in the public and a corresponding draft decision. Information technology has become an integral part of virtually all the economic, social, political, and cultural processes of our nation. They define qualitatively new ways of further developing our society. National IT has become one of the most important priority areas. So far, there is no sphere that could exist without the use of information technology and telecommunications technology, starting with education, science, business, and high technological processes. First of all, it's the introduction of electronic documentation, the use of electronic digital signatures, open software, the development of national antivirus programs. This will eventually lead to a significant budget economy. Among the main issues raised during parliamentary hearings is the improvement of the public administration system in the information sphere. Well, it's better to say state regulation. In Ukraine, several attempts have been made to optimize state administration in the information sphere, or regulation, in years of independence at the state level. However, this did not lead to significant changes. In this regard, in the field of information, there are in fact several public authorities with the same authority. So today, the development processes are not aligned, scattered between various branches of government, funds, methods, and resources that provide insufficient funding. Proposals were made from the parliamentary rostrum and the committee meetings to remove duplication of the same powers in the executive branch. In view of the experience of other countries, a project such as the creation of a principle is possible for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u122	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u123	Thank you. A project for Ukraine is possible, such as the creation of a fundamental new government body, such as a ministry, a state committee, an appropriate service or other central executive body, which will regulate the entire spectrum of information and communication activities. I would like to stress separately the issue of information security in Ukraine, which requires a comprehensive solution by creating a comprehensive system of protection against cyberspace threats. This system should ensure the protection of public authorities' systems, automated military and arms management systems, law enforcement systems, industrial facilities management systems, software and technology complexes, communications networks, financial and banking systems, transport management systems, water and energy, and heat supply. This requires the development of a regulatory framework, the creation of a coordinating body, the involvement of organizations with experience in the field, and the exchange of information on incidents. I would like to point out that ignoring this problem can lead to more significant losses than traditional threats. In my opinion, and also in my colleagues' opinion, the recommendations of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine to the establishment of a state body or a coordination centre to control and regulate state policy in the field of information and cybersecurity will be essential to address the problems I have identified. I repeat this for the transcript: all the speeches and suggestions that I have made will be taken into account when working and preparing for the signing of the Parliamentary Hearings Recommendation. Please support the draft decision. Thank you very much for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we will support the project immediately? There's an offer to support it. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Sit down, Ruslan Valeriyovich, please. Come on, information, information technology is the future of our country. And, of course, this development, these new technologies need to be supported and developed in a variety of ways. This was what Parliament’s hearings and proposals were aimed at. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let us support all together, regardless of our political views, the future of our country. Project (registration number 4190a), draft Resolution on the adoption of recommendations for parliamentary hearings on "Legislative provision for the development of information society in Ukraine". Please, colleagues, support as a whole. Please vote. [[11:47:14]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions let's see who has not had the strength to support the proposal. Please, who is against information and information society? Parenthood – 54, Party of Regions – 31, Impact – 25, Economic Development – 19, 22 – Sovereign European Ukraine (quietly), Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, an information society. Does anyone deny it? One minute to the national deputy of Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u125	Dear friends! We had parliamentary hearings. All the factions were present at these hearings. Everyone understands that today, when the war is coming, we need a reliable information environment. As a result of these hearings, completely structured recommendations were made covering all areas of the information society. Conclusion. The MP's Economic Development Group is asking the MPs to support this draft decision, which is essential for Ukraine, to protect the information society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u126	National MP Mirzny, one minute, please. Secretariat, please make an announcement so everyone can come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u127	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I don't think we need to get ahead with the big words right now, but we need to find out that 11.48 is the people's way into the buffet, and we've seen these run-ins in the hall to the buttons. So let's make the decisions, and first of all, the coalition, and remember, at 12 o'clock, the break. So immediately call on everyone and immediately vote. There's nothing to discuss, it's all clear! Even the communists, that's why they don't vote. Because if there is an information society, everyone will know about the horrors that have taken place in the country. And even those who are still blinded by the communist ideology will see through. So let's go back to voting. And from the Secretariat to demand security, let the Secretariat demand, I emphasize, to require deputies to carry out their duties: caught in the buffet – let the public condemn, or, excuse me, make other decisions. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u128	Thank you. National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u129	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Remember, there will be responsibility for everything. Now you're putting it all on the communists, and in a few years, they're going to talk about "Freedom," which led to that. So here you are, and don't forget yourself. That's the first one. The other one. We're willing to support these recommendations, but let's say there's one "but": if we take this line, we vote for it. Because look what it says is, "The Cabinet of Ministers give up Russian software that can pose cyber threats to the state." And the American, and the European, and the other, can't threaten the state? So let's write "create national software," and "create national software" -- we're ready to vote. Why don't you just give up Russian and run the American? Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u130	National MP Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, as the chairman of the committee that I co-reported at these parliamentary hearings, I first want to mark the high level of parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u132	I'm sorry. I ask the deputies not to leave the halls, my dear fellows, to return to the hall. I'm sorry. Mikola Volodymyrovich, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u133	And these recommendations that the committee has prepared are extremely important, and all speakers have been paying attention to the issue of information security, the information independence of the threats we have received as a result of the actual information war with Russia, which has led to a real war. And so here's the responsibility for every sentence, every word is extremely important. There's nothing to trade here, whether we're looking for compromise to have Russian media companies here, or information technology making money in Ukraine, or we're protecting the information market. As a last resort, it may be possible to prioritize the national manufacturer in providing information technology. But in general, the recommendations are prepared professionally, and I can see so much that our deputies, the conscious MPs, who are absolutely situational, not because of their own beliefs, are in the buffet, they are now returning to the session room. And that's why, I think, right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u134	Please, Your Honor, one minute, a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers is asking. Ministry of Education, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u135	Good afternoon! There are two positions that should have been reviewed, i.e., look, we have the first item -- "The System of State Policy" -- and there is position 7 -- "To create a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." But this is the Cabinet of Ministers, which is an inadequacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u136	Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u137	This position is off-limits. And the next. Similarly, the position in the section "Electronic Economics Development" in heading 6: "Introduce changes to intellectual property legislation in terms of improvement." Period. What? Improving what? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u138	It's about improving the protection of intellectual property, in this format. Understandable suggestions, correct. With regard to the commission of inquiry, it is certainly not the Cabinet of Ministers but the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I'm going to remind everyone that we still have the occupation of territories by the Russian Federation, and other countries are going to be, so we're going to stand up to other countries. But I insist that we face not only an aggressive war but also an information war. Not only with weapons, but also with information technology. And protecting our country is our duty, and it is primarily our responsibility to protect information. Because information is now one of the main resources of each country. And the professional approach to this is our responsibility, to organize and force the country to work in the new technologies, including information society. So, honourable colleagues, with the comments that have been made, including the head of the committee, Mikola Tomenko, who I believe take into account many of the comments that have been made here, please go back to this decision. Let me remind you, this is Project 4190a. Please return to this project, your honor. Please vote, colleagues, please vote, a very important question. [[11:54:33]] For 197 The factions, please. Parenthood – 60, Party of Regions – 5, Impact – 32, 23 – Economic Development, 21 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that this issue needs to be brought back because it is a serious issue, and I do not understand the political contention in this vote. Please, Anatoly Kinach, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! The most important component of the 21st century of national security in Ukraine is information security, including cybersecurity. Therefore, in the face of an unprecedented, cynical information war against Ukraine, it is essential that our nation work on clear, systematic, highly professional actions and is approaching the gains in information war that deforms citizens' mentality, which poses even higher risks to Ukraine's statehood and territorial integrity. And in terms of cybersecurity, the question goes also to the complex strategic objects of Ukraine, starting with nuclear energy. Therefore, the Economic Development Group insists and demands support for the Supreme Council's decision to strengthen Ukraine's national security in the context of information security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that this position is divided by most of the people's deputies, and I think that tomorrow we will be supporting, supporting this decision. Dear friends! Before taking a break, I would like to ask that the voters meet in Parliament, and that the national deputy of Zdunowski would talk to them, and he would ask for one minute for an information message. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Zdnovsky, 90th District, White Church. We've just met the mothers and wives of our boys who are called to the White Church and from Uzin, from Belogrodka, who serve in the 72nd Motorbike Brigade. Well, one requirement, in general, is that the most basic thing is to rotate quickly so that the kids can go home -- the ones that serve 3-4 months. Well, in principle, in general, we understand enough that the complexity of the situation at present is ready to wait, but we are also asked to deal with material security. Because there's still no generators, there's not enough tents, there's not enough sleeping bags, there's also armors and helmets, but that's a question we decided yesterday. And I also agree with my colleague Tomenko, and I would like to ask them to consider this to be my parliamentary request for what is happening in the military. I mean, the incomprehensible situation where we have up to 30,000 volunteers, when we have Afghans there, we have gunmen who are trying to get killed, which means being called into the zone of anti-terror operation -- they're not invited. And people who have three children, five children, either call on their only son or, who has a disability, call on them. That's why I'd like to ask it to be a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a 30-minute recess. We'll continue our work at 12 o'clock for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. I remind you, time is always for work. Priorities are different. If you're already here, we'll work. Who doesn't want to work, our citizens see it, they hear it, and they'll give a high-quality assessment to all the MPs who want to work with quality. Who doesn't want to work, don't work. So we move on to the next item in the agenda. Let me remind you, the registration number of Project Order No.4097: the 150th anniversary of the birth of the UAPC father of Vasil Lipkovsky, the National Deputy Karpuntsov project. I ask the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Kirilenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u144	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a draft decree marking 150 years from Vasil Lipkovsky's birthday. She was brought by a deputy named Valérie Carpuntsov. On March 20th of this year, 150 years have passed since the birth of the Metropolitan of the whole Ukraine of Vasil Lipkovsky, but this 150-year anniversary is celebrated and celebrated throughout Ukraine, as well as in the countries of the settlement of the Ukrainian diaspora, throughout the year. There is therefore an understanding and need to support this decision so that the merits of Basil Lipkovsky before Ukraine and the Ukrainian people are properly appreciated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For those of you who don't know, I can remind you that Basil Lipkovsky, a Churchman, was born in the territory of the present region of Cherkas, a graduate of the Kyiv Spiritual Seminary and the Kiev Spiritual Academy, has come a long way in the hierarchy of the Orthodox Church. In 1921, she initiated the creation of the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church, which took on the principles of worship in the native, national, Ukrainian language, the principle of ecclesiastical assembly, and the principle of the separation of the church from the State. But the times were sad, terrible, and Communist. That is why the church was under persecution and the following ban. And along with the destruction of the churches, the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church was destroyed. As a result, Lipkovsky, a Metropolitan, went through a distressing path. And after being banned from religious church life, he was imprisoned in the service of the Communist Soviet authorities. And then at the age of 73.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u145	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u146	And then, at the age of 73, this respected and recognized Ukrainian people were condemned by the NCDV and shot. And by the way, even the burial site of Lipkovsky's Metropolitan, we don't know you as a descendant. The shooting took place somewhere in Kiev. Since Ukraine’s independence, a symbolic cross has been established on the Lukian cemetery. But where Lipkovsky's ashes die, we don't know. So there is a request from the Ukrainians from both Ukraine and from all over the world to support the draft decree made by Valérie Karpunts. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on May 14, this year, supported the draft decree and called for it to be voted on as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Do you have a wish to speak? I see you've got your hands up. People's deputies, please register in accordance with the reduced procedure. I would like to welcome you to the words of National Deputy Kulinić, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Vladimir Pilpenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u149	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Economic Development Group, Vladimir Filipenko, Poltavščina. All of our group respects the celebration of the anniversary of the birth of the Metropolitan Father of the AutoCephal Orthodox Church of Vasil Lipkovsky and appreciates everything he has done for Ukraine, for Ukrainian statehood, like all other Ukrainian members of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. And at the same time, colleagues, I want to draw your attention to these moments. Last year, my colleague and I, a colleague from the UDA faction, Taras Kutov, registered the bill of state markings of 80 years from the date of the birth of the published Ukrainian writer, publicist, journalist Vasil Simonek. Thank you for supporting us, and in 2015 we're going to celebrate it in the 80s. Dear colleagues, what I'm talking about. Before we do have to be realistic, to some extent. We also asked the draft decrees to print the envelopes in order to release the stamps in order to await the commemorative coins of the Jubilee. But you know, at this point, there's a government decree that stops the use of budget funds for certain actions and, accordingly, historical dates, Jubilee and so forth. In this case, we need to be realistic so that we can truly honor your memory. Unfortunately, Simonek won't be able to do that. Unfortunately, I don't think that's gonna work out in Lipkovsky. So from the draft decree, so that we don't cheat ourselves, cheat people, we have to rule it out. On the other hand, in the same Biyewites where Basil Simonenko was born, there is a village of Lazorka in the Poltava region, in the Lubensky region. There people raise money for armor because they went from this village to fight on the front, at the ATO, and the state can't buy them armor. On the other hand, we also think that in this case we should protect our boys, not worry about waiting for coins. So from these two positions, I'm asking very much that we all count now. All we can do is not be able to reach that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u151	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u152	All the unrealistic things we've ruled out. At the same time, in this case we will be able to support this decision and celebrate with dignity 150 years after the birth of the Metropolitan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u153	I would like to take you to the words of the national deputy Donya, the group "Supreme European Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u154	Alexander Donnie. Basil Lipkovsky is not just a figure to me personally. I was baptized in the same church, Sveto-Pocroski in Thessaloniki, which is my home district in Kiev, where Vasil Lipkovsky served. And now those who speak of Soviet times, and I remind them that it was destroyed, physically destroyed by Vasil Lipkovsky. They must understand that in Soviet times it was not even possible to go to church freely. For the first time, I was taken by the 9th grade police when I tried to pass on Easter to the Council of Volodymyr, and then in the 10th grade, on Easter, I was detained by the police when I tried to pass to the Church of Saint-Pocro on Solomon. I remind you, this is the church where Vasil Lipkovsky ruled the service. And now, when we mention this figure, a prominent figure in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, we need to understand that we should say the same thing clearly and directly: unfortunately, the Moscow patriarch, who is covered in the name of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, has contributed greatly to the formation of Ukrainian phobias in previous times and is now greatly aided by Russian agitation against Ukraine. That is why we must view this issue not only as a mark of a prominent figure but as a clear realization that Ukrainian patriotic Orthodoxy should be on Ukrainian soil. And in this respect, Vasil Lipkovsky is a model of patriotism and spirituality. So I ask all the deputies personally and from all of our groups to support this Order on the Determining of the 150th Thing of Vasil Lipkovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u155	The People's Deputies, the faction of the Party of the Regions, are invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u156	The word is given to Sergio Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u157	Please include Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u158	Thank you. Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, faction of the Regions. The distinguished colleagues, the faction of the Regions, certainly had no objection and would support the decision to celebrate the 150th anniversary of Vasil Lipkovsky at the State level. We respect and appreciate our history, and we appreciate the historical roots that we must respect and appreciate, which are our heritage. But today, I would like to support, here, a previous comrade who has spoken and raised the issue that there should be no double standards and there should be no double approaches to considering such bills. I want to point out that as early as 2013, a group of deputies and I registered Regulation (No.2748) marking the 300th anniversary of the birth of Metropolitan Ignatius Mariupolski. It is a person who is, indeed, we will say, the legend and history of the city of Mariupol, a man who has played a colossal role in the development of the city of Mariupol and the region as a whole. So, so that we don't share Ukraine, so that we can appreciate all of our history, let's go our separate ways. Why does the committee or someone in the committee decide that these people are the people we should worship and that we should not worship? Why do we not have a decision on this order until today? Why hasn't she gone into the hall yet? Why do we often find ourselves in the middle of misunderstandings, where we have not been seen, and so on and so forth. Therefore, I reiterate and stress that we will vote in favour of the decree, we are in favour of appreciating our history, but to appreciate what it is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u159	From the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Leontius Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u160	Leontius Martinyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association supports and calls for the support of others of the Decision of the authorship of Comrade Karpuntsov on the commemoration of the 150th anniversary of the Metropolitan of Vasil Lipkovsky. It's very sad that this decision is in order right now, when actually half, the larger half, I see a session hall, whether it's still in the buffet, or if it's already in the toilet. Apparently, the people's deputies, the people's deputies, the Ukrainian history, and the respect for the great Ukrainian personalities. And in general any, not only past, but the future of Ukraine, any legislative acts and regulations. I would like to object to the thought that was expressed here about what was not necessary, saying, waiting for coins remembered for such outstanding personalities. Unlike you, dear colleagues, and especially those who are not even present in the workplace, it was a personality that influenced the course of Ukrainian history. This is really the person who's going to stay in history, no matter whether we're very "great" statesmen, we're going to wait for coins, or we're going to wait for coins. And it doesn't have to be saved at all, because independence, state autonomy, begins with spiritual independence. And that, that's what life was all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u161	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u162	I would also like to thank, inter alia, the "The Council" channel, which in the series of "The Great Personalities", was dedicated, in particular, to one of the broadcasts, and Irina Farion led it, the Metropolitan Lmpkowski. And I call on the people's deputies who write the decrees, to put in the same way, to use this resource to honor. It doesn't cost much money. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, everyone has signed up to speak. I'm concluding the committee's head. Please turn on Kirilenko’s microphone, Viacheslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." The thing is, the discussion is so interesting, constructive, but there's very little MP mass in the room. That's why I'm making a proposal, Mr. Vice-President of the Supreme Council, or putting it to a vote, if there are no votes -- not to vote, or at all now, in the same way as the previous question (4190a), when we have considered the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings, we still have to postpone the vote on this issue to tomorrow, when there are more people in the room, and then we will not fail this ruling. Because practically right now, Parliament is only looking at the kind of decisions that speak of a century-old, 150-year-old, 200-year-old, and so on. We cannot now consider all the decisions: 60 years, 80, 55, 777, even those were. Because there is neither money in the government nor the ability to vote, and this should be done. That's why I'm asking you to vote for tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u165	Thank you. You have heard statements by representatives of all factions and groups who have practically declared their position in support of this decision. We can now see in the voting the effectiveness and quality of their speeches in view of the quantity and quality of the vote. The chairman of the committee shall propose a signal vote. Is there no objection? We don't deny it. Then we're putting to a vote the Bill (registration number 4097) on the 150th anniversary of the birth of the father-minthropolis of Vasil Lipkovsky's APC. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:49:53]] For 185 The factions, please. Parenthood – 49, Party of Regions – 19, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 31, Economic Development – 21, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 34, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional - 11. Honorable National Deputies and Honorable Citizens! You know the quantity of factions and groups, you see the effectiveness of their voting and you appreciate their work. So the proposal of the people's deputy Kirilenka for tomorrow's transfer -- I think that's the last request, given the importance of the figure -- from the order of the day that we're going to carry today for the next time, there will be no more transfers today, it's clear. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next item on the agenda. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (Registration No. 3225) amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Associations (for the provision of all-Ukrainian public associations). The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Suškević Valeriy Mihajlovich. Please turn on Valery Mikhailovich's microphone. Let me remind you that we're working on a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u166	Thank you, Ruslan Vladimirovich. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! The Timoshenko Block, the Fatherland faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Ruslan Volodymyrovich, I'm horrified to think of the report, of my own bill, which awaits my fate back in the days of the past authority, which was not put into the order of the day now, and then, under that authority, and now I'm waiting, and so I'm just experiencing a tremendous deal about the adoption of this law that pensioners, veterans, invalids and other social organizations are waiting for. Because it is all the public and all - Ukrainian organizations that are, first of all, that I have been asked to do so by veterans and disabled people and their social associations. This bill has been premeditated by numerous appeals made by the very social organizations concerned about the fate of their local mediators, who are to change their status in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Public Associations, which took effect on January 1, 2013. With the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Public Associations, they have to stop their activities in the status of legal persons, the local centres of public organizations that I have called. For five years, by 2018, local centres of public organizations, most of which are local centres of all - Ukrainian social organizations, have to register as separate divisions of public organizations without legal status. That is, all regional and local social organizations, which were part of the structure of the unifications of all Ukrainian social organizations throughout Ukraine, should disappear as a legal person. Thus, the territorial structure of the local centers of all - Ukrainian social organizations has been destroyed for decades, and this is what everyone calls and talks about. For example, all - Ukrainian public organizations of veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u167	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u168	All-Ukrainian public organizations of veterans and disabled people have for decades formed their territorial structures from the village to the area, the city and the area. Now they all have to. destroyed as legal persons. There are a lot of references, and so in order to regulate this issue, I have written a bill, and this bill proposes simply to return to a standard that has worked for many, many years. That is to say, the right to local centres of all-U.S. social organizations created by January 1, 2013, to leave the status of a legal person at the discretion of the Supreme Governing Body. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that many of the national deputies came to me and asked. And asked when this law was going to be, because people from places were going to turn to them. So, Ruslan Volodymyrovich, I don't even know how to do this, but this bill awaits hundreds, thousands of people who are united in community, I repeat, pensioners, veterans, disabled people, environmental, cultural, and other social organizations. I ask you to think about making a decision to make this bill -- an extremely social law that affects the public, civil society, if we can't make it -- to postpone this vote. I understand the situation is critical. But, Ruslan Volodymyrovich, I don't see anything else because, well, people won't understand us. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u169	A member of the Committee on State Building and Local Governmental Affairs, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich, is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, since January 1, 2013, the Law on Public Unions of Ukraine of March 22, 2012, which sets out the legal and organizational principles for the implementation of the right to freedom of association guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and the international agreements of Ukraine, which are subject to the responsibility of the Supreme Council: order of establishment, registration of activities and termination of public associations. To date, however, the issue of the further functioning of those social organizations that have been registered to take effect by this law remains unresolved. The committee has received numerous appeals from all-U.S. veterans' organizations, airlifters at the Chernobyl AES and invalids registered back in the 1990s about problems in implementing the rules of law at the end of local centres. Because each of these organizations has more than 1,000 local centres with legal status, which require thousands of liquidation committees to stop and effectively stop the statutory activity during the liquidation process. The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 4 December 2013 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Associations (on ensuring the activity of all Ukrainian social organizations), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Suškević. The bill proposes to amend the Regulations of the Law on Public Associations, which regulates the status of local centres of public organizations. The purpose of the bill is to preserve the structure of all-U.S. social organizations registered before the Act on Public Associations becomes effective. The Committee noted that the adoption of the proposed bills would allow for the organization to be organized, in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u171	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u172	Veterans, disabled people, sports organizations, and the discrimination of all Ukrainian and international social organizations will be eliminated. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the bill did not have an impact on the budget. The Committee on Combating Organized Crime notes that the project does not reveal corruption and meets the requirements of anticorruption legislation. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council recommends that this bill be rejected. According to the discussion, the Committee unanimously agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the Rules, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Associations (on ensuring the activity of all Ukrainian civil society associations) submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Valeri Suškević, on the basis of the first reading. But I also support the drafter of the bill in that perhaps today, Mr. Vice-President of the Supreme Council, taking into account the number of deputies in the Hall, perhaps by analogy, a signal vote, to postpone the main vote to tomorrow. This bill awaits millions of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u173	Honorable National Deputies — Is There a Desire to Discuss? Yes. Please sign in according to the reduced procedure. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Republic of Bublik, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this bill. He views it as one of the necessary, one of the most important, because by eliminating the status of a legal person, community organizations at the local district level cannot be autonomous, cannot cooperate with local authorities. Because the Budget Code does not allow local governments to finance some organizations that are above their level of funding. A clear example of this is that as a Ukrainian national deputy, I was asked by the Afghan veterans' organization at our local level to help them make shape. They are very helpful in helping us to secure public order. That was not the kind of help we were able to provide. As a result, they had to register a separate public organization in connection with this problem. But it's not the whole country, it's the local level. Thus, by adopting this law, we will take away many of the problems that social organizations have. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom calls on all colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote in favour of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u175	From the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! The history of this bill tells us that we need to be careful and very sensitive to Ukrainian practices, Ukrainian activities and public organizations, including. I remember we have a group of deputies who said that if we don't vote for this bill right now, the public organizations will stop. True, there was an expert MP who told me that I had to report for receiving a grant in the previous year, so I had to adopt this bill as soon as possible before the due date. Here's the grant, and now the entire infrastructure of public organizations is going to collapse after that grant. Because all the organizations are physical, sports, Dynamo, Colossus, Spartacus, Ukraine, well, imagine what that means? That means there's a district compartment or Dynamo or Spartacus. They're not a legal person. What Should You Do About Property? What to do with the stadiums? What Should I Do With Infrastructure? To whom should they be transferred? And they've already stolen half of it, and now they're stealing it to the end. Now there's organizations that do veterans, Chernobyl, Afghans, and so on. How can they survive in this situation?Oh, my God! Well, this complete absurdity was conceived when it was done! Are we talking decentralization now? What needs to be passed on to local communities is local self - government. And this system of rigid verticals has been made, now sitting there thinking about how to keep the car there old and how to ride it?Oh, my God! We need Kiev to write permission for them to leave on this car. So clearly we have to bring back to the old norm all the powerful, strong social structures that work at the district level, they have to feel confident about doing their statutory tasks. And I am absolutely convinced that we will vote, all factions, for this bill. I think we'll do it by noon tomorrow, when all conscious, conscientious and adequate deputies will be at tomorrow's session, and today we'll creatively draft this bill and move it to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u177	The National Deputy of Cibenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, is the head of the most numerous and most structured veteran organization of Ukraine, the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'll start with the analogy. Recently, a new edition of the Political Parties Act was adopted in the neighbouring country under a very beautiful slogan for expanding citizens’ ability to participate in political activities, where they significantly reduced the political party’s registration plan. As a result, under a very beautiful slogan, situations have arisen when existing political parties have dissolved newly created giant parties in the ocean. What am I talking about? I'm saying this to say that it's not just an impression, but it's a strong belief that when I took this Public Associations Act, the same task was being done. In Ukraine there are social organizations with great traditions that have existed for 20, 30, 40 years. And as a result of the adoption of this law, the organization's vertical was broken down: the Republican organization was cut off from the district, from the city, from the city, from the district, and so on and so forth. So, I want to say that this bill, it solves this problem: it restores the right of a legal person to a district, a city, a district, well, in this case, I'm talking about veteran organizations, but the same is true of disability organizations, other social organizations. So what I'm saying is that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill. Of course, it must be accepted and settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u179	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u180	The word is given to Momot Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u181	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u182	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! A colleague of Suškević, the author, spoke very highly. Indeed, this law compares to the rights of social groups that were created before 2012, after 2012. But there is a very big warning, as National MP Tomenko said: about the property rights that will arise in connection with the adoption of this law. So I propose to support this bill, to work it out for the second reading, and then to think about it definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u183	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP, Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we're used to some of the people living by concepts, and some of them by law. We have the Law of the Rules. Accordingly, under the Rules of Procedure Act, we put the matter to a vote. Well, that's right. If we are breaking the law ourselves, what example do we set for our citizens? So I think most of the composition of the national MPs are adequately, intelligently, mentally balanced and they vote as they should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u185	From the Vitalia Klitschka faction, please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Rosenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u186	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. There were a lot of speakers here talking about traditions, that the system had been destroyed. But it must not be about that, but about the effectiveness of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, unfortunately, those changes that were previously made to the Public Organizations Act have unfortunately proved ineffective. Because it is not about destroying the system, but it is about making a rigid centralization of social organizations that are actually dependent on one central body that has been identified as a legal person. Hence, today some local budgets have the opportunity to help their local organizations, and we should give them that opportunity today. Indeed, decentralization as an all-U.S. union, but the main thing is financial resources, including property. I want to tell the representative of the Party of the Regions that this bill is the exact opposite of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u187	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u188	It is the property of the regional, republican, district, and district communities that it deals with. When they are granted the rights of a legal person who has the right to register this property, all property issues are removed, as spoke of by Mikola Tomenko. And so, of course, the impact faction will support this bill, because it's really a normal way to decentralization, including the financial independence of public associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u189	Thank you. From the Cabinet of Ministers, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u190	Thank you, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the history of the adoption of this Civil Society Act, including the fact that it was developed primarily by civil society institutions. And it was the institutions of civil society that offered to eventually bring legislation on social cohesion into line with the Civil Code. What does the Civil Code say? The Civil Code says that there are tens and dozens of other legal persons where there are no legal persons. The Civil Code clearly states that there is a branch and representation in the legal person, and if they are created by a central legal person, the central legal person provides these branches and representations as separate centres. That is why such ideology was introduced during the adoption of the Law on Public Associations in a position to deprive the centers of legal status.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed this bill. Now you can see clearly, all the factions and groups who wanted to, who supported, who didn't. Now our citizens will also see how effectively and qualitatively you vote. And then whoever comes to the rostrum to speak on behalf of civil society, civil society organizations, protects them, which today does not express its position and is absent in the room, you can also give them an evaluation. In view of this, your point is to vote on the draft Act (registration number 3225) amending the Ukrainian Civil Associations Act (for ensuring the activity of all Ukrainian civil society associations). It's suggested that we get it on the ground. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[13:10:56]] For-195 The decision is not approved. Please, by the factions. Parenthood - 48, Party of Regions - 22, Impact of Vitalia Klicka - 31, Economic Development - 12, Sovereign European Ukraine - 15, All-Ukrainian Freedom - 33, Ukraine - 16, non-fractional - 18. That's what it is. There is a proposal for national MPs to put it to a vote. Honourable national deputies, taking into account the wishes of the national MPs, would like to return to the discussion. I would like to vote back on Bill 3225. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[13:12:05]] For 203 The decision is not approved. Thank you. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (Registration No. 2017) amending the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting (for the implementation of the International Agreement on the Conservation of Afro-Jeurasian Migratory Wetlands). The report invites the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Sekh Irina Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u192	Respectable Society! Of course, those I am about to talk about will not come to the session room, will not come, but we also understand the importance of their protection and their preservation. The bill is aimed at protecting the wetlands of international importance and bringing Ukraine's Hunting and Hunting Act into line with the International Agreement on the Conservation of Afro-Eurasian Migratory Wetlands, which Ukraine ratified by the Treaty Ratification Act in 2002. To implement the said agreement, it is proposed to complete article 20 of the Act on Hunting and Hunting with a prescription prohibiting hunting on Afro-Eurasian migratory wetlands with the application of lead scrap on international wetlands. Here are the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Ministry of Environment. All conclusions are positive. Today, the adoption of changes to such legislation requires, in fact, the international community and the birds that are being destroyed. Therefore, we are obliged, of course, to think not only about all social, other problems but also to take care of them. We propose that all factions support this bill. You see, not only can we save people, but we can save birds. There are no people in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u193	Is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. People's deputies would like to sign up for the speech on this bill. Please. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Rosenka, the Vitaly Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u194	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u195	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u196	Dear Russian Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! The Vitalia Klicka faction, of course, for the execution of Ukraine's international treaties, but I want to draw your attention to something else, and it's a pity that there is no Supreme Council head now. Today, when we have a war, when we have our citizens of Ukraine living in the swamps now, because they have to fight invaders there, you and I are discussing issues that are completely unrelated to peace in Ukraine. With all due respect to the birds, to the committee, to the ministry, but it seems that there are many more pressing issues now, we have a number of economic projects on the way to this room today that are not moving into the hall. We have a number of special projects that don't go into the hall. At the same time, today, two projects, one and the next, relate to issues that are just embarrassing to consider right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u197	Welcome to the statement of National Deputy Benjuk, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u198	Please pass the word to Andrew Tsagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u199	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u200	Andrey Tajnibok, U.S.A. Freedom. Dear society, the law clearly states where lead cannot be hunted — that is, on international lakes where the swamped birds fly — just by scrap. I can explain why you should understand this moment, why it is forbidden to hunt with lead. After a successful hunt, it is said that about 30 tons of lead remains in the water after each season. And there's not even going to be this moment in our situation, if we reject international agreements, it's about the lead remaining in the water. He stays on the mule, mule eats fish, fish eats us. There are two elements: the first is the need for an international agreement and the second is to save your own health, to give up your lead scrap. I emphasize that this is not all over the territory, it is only on the lakes defined by the international agreement, where birds flying stop for recreation. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u201	Here's to National Deputy Momota, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u202	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, please pass the word to Matviyenko's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u203	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u204	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, "Regions" faction. Dear colleagues! You know, sometimes when we're working in the hall, we get the impression that we really don't understand the processes that are going on in the country. Look, the law we're considering today. Are there no more important problems today in order to consider what fraction, where and how to shoot? To protect birds is certainly a good thing, but, on the other hand, we have a lot of problems today that we need to solve today on the vitality of our State. Have we solved all the problems? We have a pension reform, have we resolved the issue of social protection? What is the solution today to the issues related to the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Economic Activity that have been adopted? Twenty-five billion grevens have been taken from the State budget to support our people. And yet we are adopting a law that is not clear on what, have we completed the reform? We have a bill today that prohibits the non-payment of utility payments, together with Vladimir Seminović Boyko, Bill No.2406. Why not bring it in, see how our voters are protected today? Any moment. Are we done with the reform? Where is the law on the prosecution that would like to adopt?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u205	I'll beat you up, closer to the bill, maybe.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u206	I'm closer to him and I'm closer. I'm telling you, let's probably put the prosecutor's bill -- at least, what we need today, and we'll vote for it. And then we'll deal with the chickens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u207	I am truly grateful to Mr. Matviyenko. The only request is for him to look at the number of factions that are now voting that are present in the room. Then we can talk about quality. And I'll remind our national MPs that the bill that is now being put into the agenda is being submitted to the Conciliation Council by faction leaders. So I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to the national MP Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! Parliament is working. There is no military state in all of Ukraine so far, thank God. The committees are working. The committee. Irina Sech reported the production of her committee correctly. It's a pigeon bill in time. This is about preserving migratory birds. What's going on? We're looking at what's planned. And factions and groups, committee leaders on the Conciliation Council approved it in the daytime, and we voted in due course for putting it into the agenda. So let's throw away politics, we'll look at those bills that are on time. He's on time. But this is about the Sisyphic work of those national deputies who are conscientious about their work, that is, going to work. And those who don't walk, I won't point my finger at factions and groups right now, on their conscience. And it turns out that the bill is necessary, but unfortunately, because of the lack of discipline of some deputies, we won't get the required number of votes. Our group will support this vital bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u209	Please, a closing statement from the chairman of the committee. Irina Sekh turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u210	Irina Seh. Dear fellow MPs! The committee did not insist that the bill be viewed as a priority. The rulings were passed by joint faction leaders, but the committee approved the decision of one of the first to act on the bill. He was brought to the Supreme Council one of the first, and only now did his turn. So please don't politicize. This has been a bill for over a year now in the Supreme Council. Don't politicize, don't confuse, please, those things.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u212	If there are no people, do not vote or vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, we are adjourning this discussion. All those who wanted to speak. The bill (registration number 2017) on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting (for the implementation of the International Agreement on the Conservation of Afro-Eurasian Migratory Wetlands). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[13:23:24]] For-164 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 38, Party of Regions – 18, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 30, Economic Development – 10, Sovereign European Ukraine – 15, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Thank you. Let us move on to the next item of the agenda, distinguished national MPs. Your point is to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting (to improve measures to combat falsification and rational use of hunting animals) registration number 2018. I would like to ask the head of the Subcommittee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Kotelek Lidiya Leonidivna, before the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u214	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster at its meeting reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting (to improve measures to combat the scourge and rational use of hunting animals). The bill aims to improve the legal regulation of fisheries and hunting relations, the introduction of the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of Wildlife and Wildlife and Natural Environments in Europe. In particular, the bill "On Hunting and Hunting" proposes to include jackals in the list of animals for which hunting terms are established, to clarify the conditions for selective and selective diagnosis of hunting animals, and to introduce a ban on the use of trap-like fishing tools. Remove the wolf from the list of predatory and harmful animals. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine generally supports the bill. A general conclusion: The first reading of the draft can be considered as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine are proposing to support the bill. The Health Committee also supports the bill. Ukraine’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources supports the bill without notice. The Ukrainian State Forest Resources Agency supports a cautionary bill. As a result of the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u215	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u216	recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u217	Dear National MPs, are they willing to speak? Please sign up. The National MP of Marcinkov from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u218	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u219	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u220	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! I'm also going to repeat, of course, that the bills we're considering today are probably out of time. Today, it is time to consider draft legislation on illustration, on support for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But it was the question of jackals that made me go out to this rostrum. Of course, we are concerned about natural flora and fauna. But so do I, personally and our brothers in the U.S. Freedom Union, care that jackals are very much in our Supreme Council. There is a great deal of jackals in our country! And these jackals are to be used by Ukrainians on an untimely basis today. All year long we have to hunt down those who are traitors in the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Who's into populism! Who tells you that he will work uninterruptedly, uninterrupted, uninterrupted, and only comes once a week, pushes buttons for his lobbying laws, and rests in resorts. The leader of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" Oleg Tuggnibok suggested yesterday that national MPs not be allowed to leave Ukraine by eliminating foreign passports, cancelling them, and disposing of diplomatic passports. So let's actually move on to this. And I suggest that the President of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs listen to this, because we have here, as a desire to fight -- we always want to do so, and how to betray our country -- so forward and with the song. By the way, it's about jackals. I'm not going to call the name knowingly so that, without being able to speak out of this rostrum. But I think we're not alone jackals anymore, and the whole factions, the MPs, are being formed in the interests of the Kremlin and Putin. And today they say they're going to work! In whose interests will they work? On whose money will they work, and how much will we endure betrayal in Ukraine and in the Ukrainian Parliament?Oh, my God! I think jackals have to hunt for a year -- and finally destroy the Ukrainian counter-revolution that's trying to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u221	Yeah, about the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u222	to resuscitate Janukovic's bandit regime. Well, as for the bill, I don't think there's any point in voting today, because in this session room, apart from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union and the Strike faction, which today is worth knowing, is in full stock. Almost all the other factions in the middle room are sitting. So I think all the bills need to be voted on tomorrow, and I want to support the initiatives of many people's deputies in terms of depriving them of their mandates, and depriving them of the parliamentary mandates of the people who miss the sessions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u223	May I have the floor of the German People's Department, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u224	Dear Mr. Head, of course, all the bills under consideration in this title are important. But I'm asking you to officially contact the Head of the Supreme Council to give us from official sources a rebuttal or confirmation of the facts of the information we're receiving from Lugansk and Donetsk region about the bombings that took place today in two schools, about people dying on the streets. We want to know from official sources whether it is true that Donbas and the peaceful population of Donbas suffer such enormous casualties as a result of renewed military action. We demand that you be formally corrected or officially supported by this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u225	May I have the floor of the people's deputies, Rosenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u226	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u227	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! This bill, in principle, reveals the essence of the processes that are taking place in Parliament. In the bill, we take wolves out of the predatory animal class, and in the same way, individual regions come out of the predatory political class and create for themselves pro-creme crime groups, not parliamentary groups, but groups that feed on Russian soil, will feed on oil and gas that sell us three times the cost. I will never let anyone lie to ordinary Ukrainian citizens. You know, every position you have will be exposed by members of our party, there will be no pseudo-domatia here, there will be no mob remains of Janukovich in this room -- let's clean everything up. That's the first one. Second, the jackals. They are also in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Lord God sees, and the Ukrainian voters: we will be able to expel them from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, Oleg Lášk and I registered a bill that allows Turkey to eliminate a faction of communists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There will be changes to the Rules and the norm that will allow the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to eliminate the parliamentary group if the border number of deputies is smaller than the smallest parliamentary faction during the first meeting of the convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the addition of the "and faction" plugin will be added, and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, along with the progressive deputies, I know that there is support for this decision in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will bring back the country's history. There will be no more mischief, no more betrayal, no more spitting in the face of ordinary Ukrainian citizens! We will live a new life: with conscience, with new Ukraine and without communists and communism! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u229	How will the faction vote on the bill? From the Fatherland faction, please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u230	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Well, right now, in the course of an anti-terror operation, Parliament is dealing with the issue of the fable. Many feel that this is not the time. But on the other hand, now that we're discussing this environmental issue, we need to understand that the main "freak" is going to our country now from the Russian Federation. The story is that with machine guns, grenade launchers, mortars, and people who steal even our Ukrainian children from shoplifting children, they are kidnapped from Slavonic and taken to Russia. Hence, there has just been a statement by a representative of a faction, a promoscow, saying that the Head of the Supreme Council should see if we have begun an antiterrorist operation there at times. And what I'm going to say is, let the two pro-Russian factions here turn to President Putin and ask him if he's really closed down three checkpoints on the border and not releasing terrorists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u231	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u232	does not release terrorists and militants under the pressure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces who flee to the Russian Federation. And let Putin give these two factions an official answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize and remind you that consideration of the reduced procedure is about 10 to 14 minutes each bill. If you had voted so effectively and so hard on all the bills, I think we would have solved very quickly all the problems with those bills that were still being voted on in the plenary session. So we've discussed everything about this bill, all those who want to speak. I am considering a draft Act (Registration No. 2018) amending the Ukrainian Act on Hunting and Hunting (to improve measures to combat the scourge and rational use of hunting animals). It's the committee's wish to lay the groundwork. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[13:36:24]] For a hundred and The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Parenthood - 32, Party of Regions - 16, Impact of Vitalia Klicka - 30, Economic Development - 6, Sovereign European Ukraine - 14, All-Ukrainian Freedom - 34, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 13. Your opinion is proposed in second reading, registration number 2547: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of foam in case of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payment or delay. Please report to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Cibenko Petar Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u234	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. To the many demands of the hall, you and I are back to a very topical issue of social concern: debt on wages. Dear colleagues, both under the previous authority and under the present authority, we have, unfortunately, a disgraceful phenomenon, such as debt on wages. Sometimes it's a little bit smaller and it's a little bit smaller than a billion dollars. Sometimes it goes up over a billion dollars, but, nevertheless, it doesn't get any less shameful than it does, and more generally, it's paid off by people who consider it a penny in their wallet. Thus, on 4 April 2013, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of foam in the event of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payments (registration number 2547) was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the commission of the Committee on Social Policy and Work to finalize and submit it to Parliament on second reading. During the drafting of the bill, he received nine suggestions from law - abiding entities, two of which were taken into account and seven were rejected. For this reason, I would like to place a special emphasis on the fact that of the seven unaccounted for legislative proposals, most are not considered because, if adopted, the law is exposed to 116 articles of the Law. On 15 May 2014, the Committee on Social Policy and Work decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to adopt a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the establishment of foam in the event of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payments, 2547, on second reading and in general. The legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. Although it should be noted that several technical legal rights of the General Legal Authority were taken into account during its processing. Asking to support the committee and to adopt the draft law in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? So the second reading, we're going through the second reading system -- so we're going through the revisions. From the procedure, please include the People's Deputy Sold microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u236	Dear Russian Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! This bill was discussed in the first reading in the Bank, and we believe that this project cannot be voted on today by a democratic coalition. So, if that's true, we should probably put it in. We won't vote for him, let people vote for what they think is necessary, or take it down in the first place. A project voted in the Bank’s may not be published until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u237	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, national deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u238	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, this bill was adopted on April 4, 2013 at Banking, it's very necessary and social, because that debt that it is today, it's like this snowy comel, it's all crouching and crouching. But the law has some problems, because businesses, budgetary institutions, small and medium-sized businesses at a rate of 0.5 per day per day not to pay wages, it can disrupt the entire system of medium and small businesses. So because he's taken to the Bank and because he's not yet perfect, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u239	Dear people's deputies, let's give some advice then, if that's the case. Please. Now, please, the leader of the faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u240	The Fatherland faction, Sobolev. Dear colleagues, we were thinking that the key debts that were created for small and medium-sized businesses were created when a faction of communists, along with the Party of Regions, supported Yanukovich's unique regime, which closed the business that illegally arrested business? Then people had problems, they had no opportunity to pay taxes or wages at the same time. And now we're still going to punish them? I'm reminding you again if someone doesn't know what the law that was passed at Banks is. It's when Communists and "regions," like rats, fled from the Supreme Council to Bank Street, in a closed room, not allowing other people's deputies to vote on decisions that no one had seen, no one counted. That is why only on the basis of this can such a bill be rejected. And I think if anyone wants to address this subject, bring it up in a new way, but it should take into account all those who have been illegally deprived of the right to engage in entrepreneurial activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u241	Dear company, I'll see the faction leaders. If possible, then Zuravsky, Martinyuk. And your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u242	I'll take the position of our Economic Development Group: reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u243	Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u244	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, especially those who mention the Bank and others. Shame! But look at what's happening. But look at what you're doing under the dome in the session room -- it's an even bigger disgrace. Because as laws are now adopted sometimes, Parliament has never seen independence in all its years. Therefore, fellow believers, let us act regardless of political opinion, regardless of what you are carrying or who you are importing with, within the limits of the Rules. And then you won't have any reason to talk about anything. That's the first one. And the others. Please tell me what you can explain to those people who don't get a salary, but they're foaming for apartments, for other utilities, and they don't get a salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u245	Dear National Deputies! Zybenko, please close your mouth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u246	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all. Dear colleagues, let me answer some of the warnings that came out of the hall. First. Those colleagues who are afraid that this law will ruin someone's business, I mean. The first function of law is deterrence. This is to avoid foaming, creating debts, and not having to pay a penny. That's the first one. The other one. As for where the law was enacted. Indeed, what is the difference between a citizen and an employer’s debt, where the law was adopted? And most of all. Let's face it. I understand that the law will not be passed, but not because it was accepted by Banks and not because there are some shortcomings in it, but because there are at least half of the entrepreneurs in this Chamber, and they never vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u247	Dear National Deputies! I've heard your thoughts. We're taking this bill off the table. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Are you insisting on voting? Okay, then we vote. No problem. If you insist on voting, please. We are considering a bill (registration number 2547) amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of foam in case of non-payment of wages, scholarships, pensions or other statutory payments, or its delays in second reading and in general. I'd like to make a statement. Please vote. [[13:46:39]] For-36 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 1, Party of Regions – 3, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 0, Economic Development – 4, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, Freedom – 0, Ukrainian Company – 19, non-fractional – 3. If possible, now there are three bills co-authored by me that will not be approved. And so that there is no claim to the chairman at today's plenary session, I ask you not to take the time, but to put them to the vote. Okay? So that's fair. That's why I'm inviting you to the first. We're putting bills on your list. Bills (registration number 2978) are proposed to amend the Ukrainian Customs Tariff (for the moment of entry into book production). Please report to the National MP, Irina Pharion. Please. While Mrs. Irina is going to the rostrum, I emphasize that there are three bills: 2978, 2979, and 2980. They relate to one question. This is the first reading. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u248	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! There's been a lot of chatter about what we're talking about at the wrong time about birds? So I'm talking about a bill that's directly motivated by what's happening today in two areas of the country that are debilitating all of the following 22 areas. It's about the book, about its magnificence. And if, for example, the Polish Seima considered how to protect the Polish book from the enemy expansion of a foreigner, I can't imagine a single deputy from the Polish Seima leaving the hall. Well, a book is a spiritual weapon. And if it shoots properly, then you don't have to buy vests, chairs, and tanks. If the nation correctly determines its system of values and realizes that the spiritual factor is primary and all other secondary, then its best sons do not perish. And if she does not realize it, then we are paying a terrible price for our own stupidity. For the so - called armistice, we have already paid this most terrible price — 27 deaths! And now that we're here, in the hall, it's like we're passing laws, people are actually dying! In those areas where there was no Ukrainian book, no Ukrainian language, no Ukrainian idea, no Ukrainian business, no Ukrainian substance. And it's because there was no Ukrainian substance in those areas that there is now a tollbooth. And this putinian boot doesn't set foot on any other Ukrainian territory where the Ukrainian nation is going to be, the central consciousness. Because if our armor were our Ukrainian national idea, there would be no war now. In fact, this war is wrapped in strange abbreviations, such as ATO or some other truce. Donbas for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u249	I'm sorry. Then please give me two more minutes, because three bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u250	Thank you. Donbas today is the focus of the deficit of the Ukrainian book. So because of the bill that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is proposing, we're demanding that we introduce an introduction to the Russian-speaking product into Ukraine. Get rid of the Russian book! Enter a 5 percent bribe. If it were my will, I'd even introduce a 20% bribe! Because I quote you as a brilliant Russian by birth, but a Ukrainian by choice of culture. The worst counter-revolution in Ukraine, I repeat, the worst counter-revolution in Ukraine is the development of Russian culture. This was not said by Irina Farion, to whom they sown, but was said by the genius Fitilev, namely, Mikola the Wave. So to stop this development of counter-revolution in the country in the form of a Russian book, we have to wash this book by 5 percent. That's the first one. Next. We're going to make a change to the State Budget, and that's how these funds that we're going to get from sweeping the Russian book will be channelled into a special fund. Every year we're going to delete at least 2 million from the 2012 budget. These 2 million conditional units, which we're going to remove, we're going to target the purchase of a Ukrainian-language book into Ukrainian libraries. I have information today that our Parliamentary Library has not been able to purchase any Ukrainian books in the last three years. This means that these three bills that we're proposing have a lot of incentive, they support the Ukrainian book, and they're putting a block on bringing a Russian duty-free book to Ukraine. And in closing, I'm just going to give you an example like this. When the Poles fought for their independence, and in the 19th century they failed to rise up against the Moscows twice successfully, I mean the 1830 and 1863 uprisings, so at the end of the 19th century, this great nation, which is now so supportive of us Ukrainians, in finding themselves, is not about any integration -- it's about finding themselves. This great nation has said such a simple thing that should be a lesson for all of us today6 in order for the Poles to become a great nation, it is necessary to take the French novel from the hands of a Polish woman and put a Polish novel into the hands of a Polish woman. That's how His Majesty Henry Senkevitch was born with his novel "Fire and the Sword." And the Poles are today a nation of liberators, a nation self-sufficient and successful. I wish we all could. Therefore, Mr. Head, I ask you very much, in the absence of the number of deputies required to vote on this, a duly drafted bill, to postpone the vote to Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u251	Unfortunately, we will not pass on this bill. We will vote today, and all citizens will see who is being treated. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to speak? Yes. Please sign up for the speech. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Orphan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u252	Please pass the word to Galina Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u253	Please, Galina Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u254	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, see what the situation in the East looks like now, how, what laws, what terrible laws the invaders are dealing with. Above all, they try to destroy, destroy, and destroy our spirituality. Who in eastern Ukraine today found themselves in so - called black lists? Who in eastern Ukraine today is primarily forced to flee? Who are forced to become refugees? Refugees are forced to become more than just those who supported the Midhans. We have to become refugees first of all to our Ukrainians, our Ukrainian teachers, our Ukrainian historians, our Ukrainian linguists -- those who teach Ukrainian. That's actually how the occupation behaves. First of all, the occupier destroys our spirituality. When the invader’s foot set foot on the Crimean soil, they followed exactly the same laws. They destroyed a Ukrainian book that is still on the Crimean Peninsula. First of all, they tried to close down all the Ukrainian newspapers, although there were not enough of them. First of all, they tried to shut down all the Ukrainian television channels. I mean, spirituality, as Irina Farion rightly said, is primary, materialism is secondary. And only a nation capable of protecting its spirituality can protect its sons from destruction. According to recent studies, only 46 percent of Ukrainians have been respected and 46 percent of Ukrainians have not read any books in the last year. This is indeed a terrible thing. And if we don't pass laws that will help us protect our Ukrainian book, it's an indicator, 46 percent, that's going to change and it's just going to change.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u255	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u256	I want to point out that today those nations that are reading, this is a Polish nation, this is a British nation, this is a German nation, and maybe a respected society, that's why they read books that those nations, they can protect their spirituality and they can protect their publications. And that is exactly how we are to act today. We're setting up a Russian book, a Russian book that destroys our spirituality that brings this "Russian peace" that is destructive today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u257	The People's Deputy Dubnevich, the Vitaly Faction, is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u258	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! It is commendable and worthy of the attention and support of the problem raised by our colleagues regarding the support of the Ukrainian people that such a problem really exists. But I'd like to stop at her solution. Unfortunately, the tool chosen for this decision does not produce the desired result. Imagine that we have adopted laws today, and from tomorrow they will work. What will the work of these laws mean? This will mean that 5 percent of the book printed in Poland will be fined. For a book published in France, a customs duty imported to Ukraine will be taxed at 5 percent. For a book published in Canada when imported into Ukraine, 5 percent will be taxed. For a book published in the Russian Federation imported into Ukraine, the bribe will be zero. Why? Because we have a signed and ratified Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation, this is the last treaty in 2011. According to Ukrainian legislation, if someone is not familiar, please get to know them, the priority of treaties under Ukrainian legislation ratified by Ukraine. That is, if Ukrainian legislation is in conflict with an international treaty, there is a rule of law. So I want to go to my colleagues again. If you want a solution, it's not that way, because unfortunately, the solution you're offering is the problem of supporting the Ukrainian book, and we understand where the competition comes from. Unfortunately, these laws don't decide, we have to look here, and I urge the authors to find another solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u259	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u260	Thank you. While Viacheslav Kirilenko is coming, please tell him: I would like to say that not 5 percent, but 10 percent and 20 should be disposed of, and the Russian book, television, because this is all imposed on us by the so-called "Russian peace", which is now fascist. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u261	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u262	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Now the situation is changing in the country, we have here, in this room, not to mention the people who live in our great country. A huge number of citizens thought, "We're not going to have any problems with Russia in our lives -- we're brothers. What kind of war is that?".. And now, when tanks and heavy artillery, the City works for them, everyone thinks about themselves, their place in the country, and the meaning of our country. Similarly, changes in the spirit realm, unfortunately not yet available, are slowing down: there are no changes in television in the meaningful part, no theaters, no books, and no book market. That is why we need to fill this gap, including legislative changes. Of course, there are several technological approaches. The first approach proposed by the authors, and we support it. It is not entirely true that we are being held back by the Free Trade Agreement. Ukraine may propose an exemption from the Free Trade Agreement, as the Russians have systematically done over the years. [[Applause]] And we can do the same. The second way is to quota imports, including books. Of course, it's not meant to be vocabulary, exclusive scientific literature and so on, but it's "live" politely, it's about popular worship, it's about leisure worship, it's about quotaing, because the book market, import is 80 percent of Russian origin. Unfortunately, we don't have much of a Polish book or French book, and no more of that, mostly white, gray and black Russian imports. So the second approach is to quota imports, and these quotas should also be bought out to willing organizations that would like to import a Russian book here. And the third. Now there's a threat of cancellation of the benefits that have been going on for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u263	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u264	For a long time, they work in the Ukrainian market – VAT benefits, income taxes, partial land payments for publishing organizations. That's exactly what we shouldn't have allowed, because even those miserable 20 percent of the book market segment that the Ukrainian bookkeepers possessed, that's going to be destroyed. Systematicly, by offering all these three approaches, we can protect the Ukrainian book in serious conversation and this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we will continue to consider the work of our morning session before the conclusion of this consideration. Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u266	All three bills currently under consideration are supported by the Fatherland faction. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u267	Thank you. It is invited from the group "North European Ukraine" by the national MP Dony. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u268	Alexander Donnie. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to the authors of these three bills for drawing their attention to the Ukrainian book -- not only is it the humanitarian sphere now, but it is the sphere of our nation's existence, the existence of our state. Because there is a real threat to aggression now, not only by the military of Russia, but also by the information aggression that has unfortunately been going on for all these years. And we need to support our information space, including training our population in our Ukrainian book. And it's very good that the authors are now stimulating interest in this issue. But with my colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko, I would like to draw attention right now by considering these bills, that we can still save one very important decision, even though there is an existing aid for accounting. The meeting was held under the auspices of Vice-Prime Minister Sich, who knew that almost all the well-known booksellers were present.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u269	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u270	where the idea of the need to continue the existing decision was unanimously supported. I'll remind you, she's automatically out of service since July. So, Your Honor, I've been asking this question to the head of the Supreme Council, he's been supporting the faction leaders at the Turkinov meeting -- they've all supported it. This decision is now being held in the Tax and Customs Policy Committee. I'm calling on this committee right now to get this bill now supported by the Supreme Council, and to vote for the benefits to be extended to the Ukrainian book. This morning, I spoke to the head of the Bookstore Association, Alexander Aphonini. The publishers are waiting for us, let's support the booksellers and the Ukrainian book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u271	Thank you, people's deputies. Vladimir Litwin, please make the final statement and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u272	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Obviously, these bills were to be considered first today. And if we were to either make a positive decision or send it back to the first reading, that would be the result. I must say, dear colleagues, that the Ukrainian book, the Ukrainian book, did not die. You can see that we have beautiful publishers and beautiful editions at the exhibitions. The problem is that the small circulations, even the editions, that were in the 200th anniversary of Taras Shevchenk's birthday, and these editions are absolutely beautiful, they have little circulation. That's the first one. The second question. It's that we've destroyed the distribution system. I can give you an example. The U.S. Institute of History has issued a 10-tom Encyclopaedia of History of Ukraine on government orders, but they can't distribute, and the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't give them the right to solve this problem on their own. This is true of the fundamental work in the 9 volumes of "The History of Ukrainian Culture," which is recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u273	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u274	to win the National Science and Technology Award. We need to solve this problem in a complex way. And that's why it's an offer. In spite of the headship position, today we do not make a decision, because we do not have enough votes, we move the decision to Thursday, we take the basis and we commission this bill to be drafted for second reading, so that it answers all the questions that Victor Pinzenik was talking about, he's absolutely right, we have to take that opinion into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-02-m0.u275	Thank you. All those who wanted to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, draft Law No. 2978 is proposed: a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff (for the import of a moment into book production), on the basis of this. People's deputies, please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[14:06:48]] For-129 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 41, Party of Regions – 2, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 29, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 13, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 7. The decision is not approved. Next bill, registration number 2977: Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for the moment of entry into book production). People's deputies please make up their minds, please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[14:07:33]] For the 120th. The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 33, Party of Regions – 1, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 29, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 12, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 8. And last draft registration number 2980: Amendments to Article 282 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the moment of entry into book production). People's deputies please make up their minds, please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[14:08:18]] For-119 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 33, Party of Regions – 1, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 28, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 12, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 8. Dear National Deputies, at 3 p.m., I inform you, there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject "On the state and legislative provision of the scientific and technical development of the state." Please come and participate in these parliamentary hearings. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we meet and continue our work at ten o'clock in the morning. Thank you. Good-bye.
