ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, distinguished guests, invited! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please invite all the national deputies to the session room. I'm informing the distinguished National Deputies that the Head of the Supreme Council is now on his way to the eastern territories of Ukraine, taking into account the complex situation that is taking place there. That is why we will work actively and productively with you today, confirming the effectiveness and quality of the work of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. And I'd like you to turn on the "Race" system so we can look at our presence and the activity of the National Deputies. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:01:51]] Thank you. Today, 276 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning plenary session is open. And according to our good tradition today, our fellow natives, Labazük Sergey Petrovich and Molotok Igor Fedorovich. Welcome to the National Deputies. [[Applause]] Also the distinguished national MPs, the pleasant news of our colleague Jemilev Mustafa, were awarded the first prize of the Solidarity Prize – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland awarded the leader of the Crimean Tatars, please welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you, distinguished national MPs! Today, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council Regulations Act, we have 30 minutes for speeches by national deputies, statements, announcements, proposals. I'm asking the people's deputies to sign up for the speech, please turn on the "Council" system. Welcome to the words of the People's Deputy Yankiv, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. He's handing over to the People's Deputy Orphan. Prepare the national deputy Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u2	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Respectable Ukrainian Society! National deputies of Ukraine! Those events in the East, especially in the last days, show that without solving two key problems, unfortunately, the problem of the Russian Federation's military annexation to Ukraine and the vile war, the war against terrorist methods using cover-up of civilians, women, the killing of Ukrainian soldiers from ordinary apartment buildings, we cannot stop this situation until we have solved two key problems. The first problem is the closure of the iron castle of the Ukrainian-Russian border. To our conviction, the Ukrainian side should unilaterally delimit and demarcate the Ukrainian-Russian border, stop the border crossings that are now between Ukraine and Russia, because we cannot properly ensure control through the intrusion by the Russian Federation of Armed Combaters and the transfer of arms. There's even information that they're trying to transport across the Ukrainian-Russian border today. Russian-Ukrainian border is heavy technology, including helicopters. Ukraine should therefore immediately proceed to the delimitation of the unilateral demarcation of the Russian-Ukrainian border and stop. introduce a visa regime with Russia and stop any movement across this border until the Russian side ensures order on its part. The second issue that we must resolve immediately. Today's regime, the legal regime for an anti-terror operation on Donbassa does not respond to the Russian diversion. Today, unfortunately, we have to say that it's not really the Ukrainian State that's conducting an anti-terrorist operation against tollians, terrorists and their accomplices, and this toll divers are conducting an anti-terrorist operation against Ukrainian citizens, and they're releasing their hostages. As soon as we try to catch some bandit, thousands and hundreds of armed divers surround the Ukrainian forces of law and order and liberate their supporters; it's them, not us, who release the Admirals, because every day more and more administs are under the control of Russian divers, it's not them. Not us, and unfortunately, they're hunting Ukrainian soldiers all the time. I am convinced that one of the first orders of the President of Ukraine should be the War Order. This is the legal regime that will allow the Ukrainian State to deal effectively with the situation at Donbassa, this is the legal state that will finally allow terrorists to be separated from civilians, because today the anti-terrorist operation takes place when children go to school, children go to kindergartens, people go to work, and so more and more civilians die. Therefore, I am convinced that the National Security and Defence Council should propose to the President in the near future the War Status Order, and we must vote in this decree and effectively end the military operation in the state of war. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u3	Thank you. I'd like to take you to the words of the national deputy Kravczuk, non-factional. Prepare the National Deputy Osaulenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u4	It's a can. Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u5	Please come to the microphone of the People's Deputy Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, on my way to the Supreme Council, I received a call from a woman from our town of Slavyansk, where an antiterrorist operation is ongoing today. A woman in tears calls and asks one thing: Don't stop, free our city from terrorists; free our city from drug addicts, murderers who shoot Ukrainian citizens in broad daylight. They live there. You have no idea how people live today in Slovenian, Kramatarsky, Donetsk! When an aircraft flies over them, when terrorists are bombed, when terrorists attack civilians. God does not allow anyone to live under conditions of war. Do not let anyone see the grief, the tears, the impenetrableness that Ukraine’s citizens now live in in Slavonic, Kramitarsk, Donetsk, Lugansk, and other terror - ridden cities. But people, even though they actually live in war conditions, on the front they ask one thing -- don't stop -- the Ukrainian Army, don't stop the Ukrainian government. 90 percent of the population want to live in an independent and only Ukraine. And they asked me, this woman from Slovenia, who, by the way, speaks Russian, they asked me to give the Communists and the regionals who come out here to the parliamentary rostrum, to stop the antiterrorist operation. So this woman asked you to come to them so that you could live like them, the people who are being killed by the terrorists. There's no water, there's no bread, there's no light, there's no light in the middle of the day, they shoot people at the orders of a drug addict called Slovenian Ponomarov, who asks for 100 cubicles of trampoline every day, because they have to go on a roadblock, they're put out under drugs, because that's not the way they go. And they shoot for refusing to go to war. So go there, you little commies, go there, you little Yanukovich, and stop the terrorists, and tie up one terrorist, and take away his weapons. So that the weapons don't shoot Ukrainian soldiers, so that the weapons don't shoot the Ukrainian Guard, the Ukrainian border guards that are now being killed in Lugansk. When you go out and campaign for terrorists, do you support the terrorists you represent? Nobody! You represent Russia. Because 90% of the population of Donbas want to live in Ukraine alone, 90% of the population of Donbas are asked to be freed from a terrorist infection. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u7	May I have the floor of the Black People's Deputy prepare for the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u8	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The respectable society, probably after the Dignity Revolution, seemed to many Ukrainians in our society, and so did I, frankly, including, now, after the Dignity Revolution, when people died, everything would be different. That now there will be no political manipulation, that we will never again talk about transparency, that now there will be no counterfeiting in the elections, but unfortunately that more time is passing, that we will increasingly see that the Dignity Revolution has not ended, but only enters its new, qualitative new phase, the essence of which is that society must be cleansed of the ghosts of the past and must be cured of the old long-standing diseases. Because the Dignity Revolution didn't end if we have a reason to talk today about counterfeiting in the Kiev elections, because the Dignity Revolution didn't end if Ukrainians rightly ask: why, if we've raised 125 million, our Ukrainian military today isn't provided with armor and we don't even have Ukrainian boys who go on shift at night. You know, it used to be in history, once upon a time, the soldiers of ancient Sparta who went to war had to buy themselves a horse and take care of their protection, buy expensive equipment. But the good people, and Ukraine today, Ukraine today, is not the ancient Sparta, the Dignity Revolution has not ended, because we have no answer to very many questions. Today, in Western Ukraine, there are run-offs where Ukrainians are called upon to buy tea from a famous firm because it will support the Ukrainian army, but Ukrainians are rightly asked whether this can be believed, if only 3 months ago the same firm, the same tea was on the list of the party's boycotts of the region, and the owner of those teas "glorified" in paws, of course, on 223 counties with his forgeries in the 2012 election in the capital. Today the Dignity Revolution is not over, because representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists are going to the rostrum and are lying about what's going on in eastern Ukraine, and that means that the Dignity Revolution is not over. The Hen Procurator’s Office has already taken an interest in Alexander Ephraim, but this should be the case with anyone who excuses terrorists! And also, society, most of all. The Dignity Revolution will not end until Parliament, at least its progressive part, comes together with strength and adopts the law on illustration in Ukraine, that is, what Midan demanded of us. And this law, which maybe a lot of people here, in this room would like to deny, hide or not notice, or put in a long drawer, it will determine whether the MPs themselves have drawn conclusions from the revolution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u9	Thank you. May I have the floor of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Prepare the national deputy, Demedyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u10	Dear Chief, colleagues! One of the conditions that apply to persons authorized to perform functions of state and local self - government is that of the President of Ukraine, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, members of all levels, heads of State executives, are the proper state of health. It is for his identification that appropriate medical assistance is provided. This is understandable in view of the need for officials to perform their duties on a permanent basis, without prolonged interruptions in treatment or rehabilitation. At the same time, when physical health is monitored during the adoption of a suitable position, mental health control of those claiming to perform functions of the State is virtually not applied. At the same time, the mental health of the individual plays a major role in the exercise of his or her powers, in the perception of power by both the Ukrainian society and the international community. Today, psychiatric science is well - known for diseases that may have a negative impact on the exercise of authority by officials. It's about diseases like paranoia, a chronic mental illness characterized by systematic manipulation in the relative preservation of intelligence. Schizophrenia is a deterioration in perception of reality and a significant social dysfunction. kleptomania is a pathologically strong desire to steal. But some others. Government authorities, respected colleagues, and local self - government in Ukraine are required to perform their own functions, based on the realization of the interests of the whole society or of the territorial community, rather than on the fears or pathologies of individual actors. Therefore, it is important not to allow the State as a whole or as a separate structural unit, especially those who systematically manifest signs of mental illness. Today, such a criterion can be an effective lever for the formation of a well - thought - out and, in particular, an adequate policy of government and local authorities. Therefore, my fellow Members, I find it a sad mistake that over the past week some of the deputies did not vote in favour of including this extremely relevant one, as you understand, and an important bill on the need to determine the mental state of the person who claims to be in large positions in the agenda. I would very much like to believe that this is simply because it has not been resolved, not because there are hidden reasons and motives not to vote in favour of this law. I'm asking you to put it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u11	People’s deputies, Demeduk, are invited to attend. To prepare for the people’s deputy Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u12	Please give the word to Alexander Zubčevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u13	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u14	Respectable voters! On 22 May this year, the Ukrainian Security Service distributed information on the detention of two diversans in Kiev. In particular, they came from Crimea to Kiev, where Euromaydan's supporters had joined activists in the Kiev City Office. By positioning themselves as active participants in Euromaydan, citizens of O. and S. prepared a series of diversionary actions against our State, collecting and transmitting information on developments to their Russian coordinators. During the authorized searches at the O. and C. residences, as well as in the non-residential premises that they used, weapons, ammunition and explosives were found, in particular: 3 Kalashnikov rifles, 2 Makarov pistols, a high-pressure pneumatic sniper rifle, a trauma handgun designed to shoot the bullets, WG-42 hand grenades and F-1 hand grenades, a large number of ammunitions and self-made explosive devices that even evacuated the entire house. One of the garages used by the Diversants revealed a significant amount of material value stolen from the Kiev administration, in particular: State and anniversary awards of more than 10,000 units, furniture, metal safes, computers and household equipment. As reported by journalists, the citizens of O. and S. Alexander Kostenko and Stanislav Krasnov were assistant consultants to the Ukrainian national deputy Leonov Eduardo Vladimirovic. It is known that the Ukrainian People's Deputy Edward Leonov is a member of the Faction of Freedom in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Head of the regional office of the political party, which is a majority and has posts in the Cabinet of Ministers, including the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. In a situation of danger that has prevailed over our country, neither the above-mentioned Ukrainian people's representative nor its political power has provided an explanation of the activities of their diversifyers in Ukraine has condemned their subversive work against the State. This gives rise to the claim that the VC Freedom political party takes an anti-State position, facilitates the activities of foreign intelligence services in Ukraine, and is relevant to terrorists. I'm talking to Turkinov. Unfortunately, there is no Alexander Valentinović, but given your principled position against the so-called anti-Ukrainian forces, I ask that the BSS be instructed to conduct a thorough investigation into the cooperation of the members of the Freedom Party, the people's deputies from that party, their assistants with the special services of other States. In the event of confirmation, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine is requested to bring an action before the court to prohibit the activities of this political force in Ukraine as an anti-State service. And the last. I mean, some people blame us for separatism. Read, respected, history and see where Ukraine has become united and where it has been within these boundaries that you are currently ruining your activities. We're in favour of an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Please sit down. We're all 5 minutes straight. I would like to welcome you to the words of the national deputy Paul. All in equal conditions, distinguished national MPs. Thank you. I didn't let anyone finish. Pavlov’s national deputy. To prepare for the People's Deputy of Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u16	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u17	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Levchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, especially Ukrainian citizens! Judging by the gas contract, the Turks continue the war in the East, and Klitschko demands the re-election. So we have three questions about these people. First. The gas contract signed by the leader of “Batakovščina” Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, a corrupt, looting contract for Ukraine, which is today trying to break Prime Minister Arsenij Petrovich Yatzenuk, who here from this rostrum told us that $500 per gas, and better than 600 is a good thing for the Ukrainian economy, is an opportunity to stimulate investment in energy savings. And $600 a gas will make the Ukrainian economy stronger. Today he comes out here and says he's going to sue and break the contract that his party leader signed because $600 per gas kills the Ukrainian economy. We have a question: When does Yatzenuk lie? The first time he said it was good, or the first time he said it was bad? Second. Mr. Turchinov is sending heavy armoured equipment and aircraft used in cities to the East against peaceful cities, killing the civilian population on the one hand. On the other hand, they recruit volunteers from Maidan, activists, they don't arm them, they don't take them. The girl on Facebook says he buys armor for his money. They didn't feed and send them to their death, and they brought them from the East, the graves. Question is, what do you want, Mr. Turkinov? Do you want to destroy the people in the East who do not recognize your authority, or do you want to get rid of those people who brought you to that power as quickly as possible? And the third question to Mr. Klitschko. He came out here, to this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u19	If you don't mind. Please unlock the microphone. If possible, please be more correct in your statements. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll explain again. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, be correct in your statements on authority. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u20	I have to go. And the third question to Mr. Klitschko, who came to this rostrum and demanded an election to Parliament. Parliament must be directly proportionately honest with all regions of the country. While 7 million people are deprived of the right to choose, when we have not decided on how Ukrainian citizens will vote in the Crimea, these parliamentary elections have finally been withdrawn from Ukraine by 7 million Donbass residents and will legitimize the departure of Crimea. What do you want, Mr. Cliché, to withdraw.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u21	I didn't take anything from you. Please finish, you have 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u22	That is why we have a question. What do you want, Mr. Klitschko? Finally, by these elections, should the territories of the east and the south be withdrawn? Or do you want Peter Poshenko, using his provisional rating today, to bring here a political party to set up his pocket parliament here, to elect a government.?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u23	Thank you. I gave you the time you stopped. Good-bye. We're all in equal conditions. Thank you. Here's the next speaker. Everyone was talking for exactly a minute. We've got 30 minutes, you're taking time at the same time. For beating you up, I stopped for what you said wrongly, and I gave you time to finish. Thank you. Please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Marchinkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u24	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u25	May I have a word with the People's Deputy Illenka, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u26	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectful association, too, is one important issue that has come to the fore today, in connection with much more important developments in our country, but which should not be left without consideration. I mean that not only presidential elections were held, there were also elections in Kiev to the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Head. And it would seem clear, there are results, there is an obvious political power that has been given priority in these elections. But there are a lot of questions about work, actually, election committees, and now we need to figure out what happened and give it a proper legal and political assessment. Because, unfortunately, things were very strange, which very often resembled a practice that, unfortunately, was in the past. This refers to the technology of so-called refined protocols, when some of the protocol came from the districts first, then the updated protocols came with completely different numbers. And this has always been true of certain political forces. There has been a copy of these protocols somewhere on the knee in the corridor, although it is totally illegal. It took a long time to calculate the number of votes, not to say why. In particular, there have been facts that have sparked indignation, such as the Majority District number 37, where the self - exaltationist Jaroslav Didenko has won and has a protocol from all areas that he is the winner. Sadly, though, the circuit commission falsified the results of a completely different protocol with very different numbers. And as a result, the City Commission approved this forged protocol by a majority vote. This reminds us of the practice that had taken place in past parliamentary elections, as representatives of the then authorities were then trying to do. An misunderstood electronic system was used to calculate the votes of the Kiev elections, which was not certified, which was essentially illegal. It is not clear on what grounds it was used by the city commission at all. There were a lot of other questions, and in fact it involved even basic things such as the lack of consideration of complaints in fact when complaints came, and the city commission simply refused to consider them. Therefore, in order to protect the next Kiev authority from questions about its legitimacy, it is necessary to conduct a rapid investigation of all these facts and punish those involved in these illegal acts. That's why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union initiated the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry for the elections in Kiev and for the illegal activities that took place. And we have sent appropriate proposals to all factions and groups of parliament to put their representatives on this Interim Commission so that it can quickly conduct appropriate investigations, and the law enforcement authorities, in turn, have punished those bastards who continue to falsify. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u27	People’s deputy Heratchenko is invited to attend. To prepare for the People's Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u28	Give me your word, Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u30	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Well, the hysteria that we've just seen from the mouth of the Party of Regions, about what they're going to do to stay in their warm chairs before 2017, it's perfectly understandable, because today all of society, including in the presidential elections, has given you an estimate, and you're taking no more than one percent of the favor of our citizens. Thus, such a misappreciation of the dissolution of today’s Supreme Council of Ukraine. But today, the election of parliament requires not a single political force, not a hit, not a Vitali Klitschko -- this is what society requires. Today, society tells us, make a complete picture of authority. And we've already taken the first step: today's elected new president of Ukraine. But in the President of Ukraine, the illustration of power doesn't end, it just begins. And the next step should be the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of new parliamentary elections. And we'll do everything, our faction, to make it happen as soon as possible. The second question. Today, the whole country is certainly concerned about this situation in the east of Ukraine. And, of course, what our army, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, all the forces involved in the anti-terrorist operation, are designed to protect and prevent casualties among the civilian population of Ukraine, is certainly a very pleasant and positive fact. But as parliamentarians, we should think and care for those who participate in this anti-terror operation, primarily military personnel. We saw the fact again yesterday, unfortunately, of our deaths. And injuring a large number of our military personnel, and again question number one from those who are involved in these actions, is that they are not provided with basic protection of their lives and health. Again, the question is that three months ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine allocated 7 billion dollars to provide our military personnel. People raised 150 million dollars of their money to support our army. Where's the money? I'm addressing you, Mr. Vice Speaker. We've got hit-and-runs today. including Freedoms, a draft regulation to create a commission of inquiry to test the effectiveness of using these funds. Today it is the last item of the agenda. We demand from the strike faction that this issue be voted first, because the protection of the lives and health of our military personnel is today the number one issue of our Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Here's to the speech of the People's Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Dear listeners, viewers! Today, I would really like to talk about Ukraine, about its economic, social, and so forth. But it doesn't work because Ukraine is in the fire. Ukraine is at war with Russia, with the Putin regime, which, unfortunately, some of the parliamentarians in this room are afraid to speak and say that Russia is an aggressor. Yesterday on one of the TV sets, really, Inna Hermanovna was addressing the MPs, and it was sad that Russia Aggressor didn't speak from the Party of Regions or the Communists. This is a test for our patriotism, for our statehood. But we believe that there will be no more in Parliament who are fighting Ukraine with words and with their affairs, who are against Ukraine’s being whole. And so today, we want to be united again and again. To be like the leaders of European countries today, Barack Obama, who said that Putin must stop supplying terrorists, ammunition, weapons, and so forth to Ukraine. Yesterday I received a letter from Ternopolis from the Freedom newspaper. It was one of the Russians, Alexander Bivshev, from the village of Crommi Orlovské district that was the writer of this newspaper. On the eve of his arrest, the day before the discovery of a criminal case against him just because he stood up for Ukraine, just because he distributed his poem to the patriots of Ukraine on social networks, he is being tried today. Even though he has an elderly mother who has had a heart attack for 80 years, he is said to have had a heart attack. His father suffered a stroke and was 84 years of age. They came to the apartment with a search and tried to do everything they could to convict him, imagine, for terrorism. So today we should not be indifferent to such people, and I will give an example of his addressing us with you. "The Patriots of Ukraine," I read in the original if I can do it in Russian. "I turn to you from the face, to the regret of the few Russians who still have a conscience and who refuses to participate in this collective fascist madness. Hold on! To all of you are the steadfastness and steadfastness of the spirit. The disgrace of Russia and the glory of Ukraine." And at the conclusion of the poem he wrote and for which he was placed today: Meet your enemies as your ancestors, So that there may not be trampled on a stranger's boot. And prepare for them porridge, God is watching over you in a terrible battle! Burying your cartridges too early. Russia still scares off the march, Long live the Spirit of Shuhevich Romana, May the Lord be your guide Praise this man! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time for the speech is over. For the replica, the names Leonov and Laška were called, please turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u34	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Here my last name was mentioned by the representatives of a dirty party, so I want to say that the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union has consistently advocated the ban on Communist ideology in Ukraine. Everything related to the activities of this criminal group, which is now called the Communist Party, must be investigated at the highest level, all their actions should be evaluated by the legal structure. And the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom has already called on the Ministry of Justice to get the Ministry of Justice to initiate a ban on the Communist Party through the judiciary, through the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Since these people are sowing national enmity, they are trying to destroy the very foundations of Ukrainian nationalism! The lie they broadcast on behalf of their Kremlin supporters, on behalf of their Kremlin masters, should not be heard from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! There's nothing to comment on. These traitors of the Ukrainian homeland must be punished, banned, illustrated, and permanently removed from power! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u35	Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A colleague from the Mikol Levchenko Party of the region complained to me that I was buying vests for the Ukrainian army for my own money. I'll buy, I'll buy, I'll buy. And I call upon all the national MPs, especially the wealth, billionaires and millionaires that are here. You've made billions in the Ukrainian state. Today it is time for you to share with the army, share with the border guards, with the law enforcement agencies, the task of everyone, the responsibility of every Ukrainian citizen! This is the support of our army! This is the support of our fighters who today protect Ukraine's territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. That's why I'm addressing all my fellow national MPs! All those who have opportunities, support our army! Buy, help! They're having a really hard time there. And our duty is to support them, our fighters, our heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the agenda. Before we move to the day’s work, I will inform you about the national deputies who are not present at our meeting today in connection with treatment or shipping. Treated: Litwinov Leonid Fedorovich, Kolganova Olena Valerijovna, Kolesnikov Boris Viktorovich, Tabojnik Jakov Pinevich. In the expeditions, we have Pankevitch present, the order is, and the Turkov is missing. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a dayly report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's State Budget 2013". I present the regulations proposed by the Committee to you in accordance with article 162 of the Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. The report by Finance Minister Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich is proposed in 5 minutes. The answer to the question is in three minutes. The report of the head of the budget subcommittee Pavlovov Kostin Juriovich - in 3 minutes, the answer to the question - in 2 minutes. A report by the head of the Auditorium of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich - in five minutes and an answer to a question - in three minutes. And performances from MPs and committees and national deputies, up to 22 minutes. The Minister of Finance's closing statement is up to 2 minutes. A total of 45 minutes. This is a committee proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, honourable national MPs, you'll have the opportunity, once again, to emphasize, you'll all have the opportunity to ask questions. Twenty-two minutes is your chance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the honourable national deputies. I invite you to the floor of Finance Minister Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich of Ukraine. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u38	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The 2013 budget became an apopheus of economic irresponsibility and social populism, which has been carried out by the government in recent years. He did not respond to any of the real challenges of time. Instead, he has led to a critical upheaval in all our chronic problems. For a sick Ukrainian economy, it became like morphine, the purpose of which was to dull the pain of a dying organism. I'll start with macroeconomics. The 2013 budget, as well as the previous years' budgets, was built on a consciously excessive macroeconomic forecast. I underline the word "consciously." So, even though the December 2013 budget was changed, 120 billion dollars to the GDP nominal were not available. So we've come to zero instead of four. 3.5 percent of the growth planned by the government. And so there were no software documents: National Action Plan 2013, State Programme for the Revitalization and Development of the Economy. Systemic reforms were not carried out in any area. As a result, according to a corruption rating, Ukraine was 144 out of 177 places. The Investment Attraction Index fell to a critical mark — 1.8 on a five - ball scale. Which is the worst, by the way, in the last four years. The artificial containment of gas and heat tariffs, the artificial containment of a stable course, resulted in artificially low inflation — 0.5 percent versus 4.8 percent planned. Thus, for three consecutive years the Ukrainian economy was in the worst stage of economic stagnation. Unrealistic macroeconomic projections and the existence of large-scale tax schemes led to a failure to implement budget revenues during 2013. The government budget has reached 339 million, which, I want to emphasize, is 7 billion less than in 2012. The budget tried to cut revenue, and in December it was 20 billion, and yet 12 billion failed. By the way, despite the decline in budget revenues, the stagnation of the economy, the decline in exports of goods and services by more than 5 percent, the cost-added tax has increased by 16 percent, indicating, in my opinion, the use of illegal schemes. The lack of income was compensated by the non-reimbursable tax on added costs, overpayments, and the costs of the NBA. On slides, you can see what amounts are: 15.1 — excessively paid money, 16.8 — future payments, 15 billion — unpaid VAT, 15.7 — outstanding VAT applications for future periods, and an unprecedentedly high amount paid by the National Bank of almost 30 billion dollars, which accounted for almost 10 percent of the income part of the budget. I would like to emphasize that in terms of listing the significant amounts of the National Bank into the budget and the negative balance of the current transactions, please note the negative balance of 16.4 billion dollars per slide. The currency exchange rate was artificial and was reduced by more than $4 billion. So this has created preconditions for further devaluation of the course and an increase in the level of government debt. Unfortunately, despite the depression of the economy, social standards that were not provided for the real resources of the budget continued to grow. Let me give you just two examples. Social spending on the general government budget increased more than 1.7 times over the period 2010-2013, to almost 300 billion. The wage fund of budget workers in a stable economy, in the last four years, has been rising by almost 60 percent, to 176 billion, this being that productivity declined by 0.2 percent over a given period. By the way, a $3 billion loan from Russia, which came in December 24 and was spent in three days, did not allow the budget to be planned. Uneventfulness has cost nearly $30 billion. Inadequate increases in social standards have led, excuse me, to two more problems that we have been experiencing for more than 10 years. This is the pension deficit, which increased tenfold from 2004 to 2013. The same applies to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine's deficit. For the first time, we've fixed a serious deficit in 2008 and since then.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u39	Please, let me finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u40	And since then, we've been setting up huge resources to support the NAC. Nearly 60 billion have already been spent. But on the slide you can see that every year we don't add any differences in prices or differences in tariffs. So it's still going to have to be done. Already this year, I want to remind you, 40 billion dollars from the budget is spent. And unfortunately, this isn't the end. We'll come to you in a few minutes. Funding for high-level social workers on the basis of NAC and Pension Fund loans was done through the release of DWPs and led to a substantial increase in government debt and service costs. The government debt at the end of 2013 amounted to 480 billion dollars. In the last four years, it has increased more than twice. There is much more to talk about the 2013 budget, but I only want to end it. The 2013 budget, as in previous years, should enter economic textbooks as an example of how it is not necessary to develop the economy and finance of the state. The 2013 budget makes us, unfortunately, dear national deputies, hostages of the situation. And we have to stop economic adventure and social generosity at the expense of our children and grandchildren. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u41	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up for factions. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Spirini, the faction of the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u42	Alexander Vitalievich, please tell me how much of the needs are financed by the medical sector's budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u43	If you mean last year, I'm reporting for the past year, the health budget was funded: 100%-protected articles and 60 percent unprotected articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u44	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP, Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u45	Tell me, please, under these conditions. I'm here. Look at me. How can we survive higher education and our students, our faculty and students, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u46	Mr. Vitaly, in one thing I can agree with you, a system of higher education, which the general education system needs serious reform. Sadly, however, all previous governments, including ours, do not want to do so. We have a lot of arguments about this, but I'm asking myself the same question about how we've lost a third of our students in school since 1006, and we haven't had any less teachers. Education today is one of the most inefficient, tired, and expensive articles in the budget. Let's work together on reforming it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u47	I would like to welcome you to the words of the national deputy of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Minister! Vladimir Yavorowski. Those figures that you said were not budgeted for 120 billion, well, of course they're good, they're taken from people, they just didn't go to budget. We've seen these images about the work of the tax collector Yanukovich. But times have changed, tax has changed. As you appreciate today's tax, which is actually managed by the Hamthinnik of the Party of Regions, and so, let's say, two famous carcasses, who first betrayed the list they followed, the father and son, so in the name of the father and son, they also appoint their daughter-in-law in Kirovgrad, the name of her Valischuk Hope, as their tax director. Is something changing or not changing? How do you feel about tax work and Billows today? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u49	Thank you. As far as tax work is concerned, the only thing we can boast about right now is that we've stopped doing so-called tax platforms. Unfortunately, I must admit that in their place, the so-called "tax partisans" are fairly actively breaking through with them, which we can't deal with right now. And that's what Mr. Billows is critical of today and we're trying to fix the situation together. We have the opportunity to deal with this audience, and we will do so. As for the field assignment, I want to tell you this: from 27 regions to 24 leaders have changed. Perhaps not in every region for the better. I have the next offer. Now, you know, in the place of the Ministry of Income and Congregations, the State Fiscal Service was formed. All managers will be reassigned. If you have any specific claims against those who run tax stations today, please contact the Government, and we will consider them carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u50	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, I have a question: Creditor's debt. Repeated references to the government were made. The government assured, including, that there was a meeting with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, that the creditor's debt would be repaid, but on one condition that the audit would be carried out and that the creditor's debt would be confirmed. All checks have already been carried out, along with no steps have been taken to recover this loan. In turn, wages are not paid, social tensions are on the rise. In turn, law enforcement authorities open criminal cases to businesses that do not pay wages. The circle is locked and there's no way out. Please. When will the first steps be taken to solve this problem? There were assurances to the government that this would be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u52	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for asking. And here. I must consult you as with a wise man who has ruled the state for many years. I'll remind you people's deputies, you have numbers. When we came to the government, the only treasury account was zero. At the same time, we had 80 billion commitments. Unfortunately, it does. We have virtually failed to meet this obligation. In fact, the local budget money for 30 billion, and the special fund for 33 billion, was eaten. On this interesting occasion, we recognize something new every day. Today's government meeting, the day-to-day question of continuation. About the reformation, I'm sorry, some of the positions of Ukraine. It turns out that in 2012 and 2013, an estimated 6.8 billion guarantees were issued to build roads. But all this money was taken to offset the government budget deficit. So in two years, 680 billion 12 percent. the interest rate. We have already paid interest from the State Budget for the servicing of these debts, which have not gone to any hole that has been dipped. It's like an element of the politics that was being pursued. In addition, we have inherited 12 billion loans. We actually checked virtually all the debt on the central authorities of the executive branch. They haven't made it to the locals yet. We've confirmed 80 percent of this debt. I just have to tell you one thing, we're going to pay in the most critical cases, because we have one way out: either we don't pay the current salary, or we pay the creditor, or we're still pulling out the loan, but we're doing our current liabilities. I'm talking to you about the only thing I can do. Where the situation is critical, we are ready to consider in the individual order of the enterprise to which tax collectors, militias, and so on are attached. We're going to drive this whole audience away. As far as debt repayment is concerned. As soon as we get any benefits, we'll start paying for it. Anything I can say right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u53	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u55	Please turn on Mihalchina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u56	Michalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Secretary, a few questions to you are of an ordinary nature, principled and systematic. I will not mention the treasury debt that is in front of all the local budgets today, just as a request on behalf of the community of Lviv. It would be extinguished as soon as possible, as important socio-economic development projects are braked. And the fundamental question concerns policy in the area of inter-budget transfers. In particular, the report said that over the past year the total amount of subsidies for the socio-economic development of individual territories and other targets fell by 71 percent, or by nearly 14 billion dollars. In particular, measures such as compensation for differences in water and water tariffs, cold and hot water supply, road repairs, and maintenance of municipal property. These subsidies were reduced by billions of dollars. The question is, when I was in high school, I heard that our Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u57	Complete the questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u58	plans to switch to the medium-term budgeting process. When will we finally have the legislative initiatives for medium-term budgetary planning carried out by the Ministry of Finance, when will our policy in the area of inter-budget transfers be linked to it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u59	I mean, one of the few things that there's no claim to the front government is that all the social grants that should have been paid to people last year were paid, and compensation grants, and extra subsidies, and special social grants. We're also paying for everything today, a penny apiece. As for the unprotected grant, and last year, and in this situation even worse, we don't pay, we don't pay, because there's no money. The other thing is that when we're taking the budget with you. Last year, Parliament had not planned for a difference in tariffs, so all of this went up to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, who came to us today and said, "Pay us otherwise we're bankrupt." And we're going to be responsible for the release of UDPs by transferring debt to our children and grandchildren who, God willing, will be waiting for a new system of inter-budget relations. However, we are now working hard on it, and we hope that by the end of the summer we will be able to propose, first to the government and then to Parliament, despite the fact that we have not yet made any progress in the situation, in the plan of administrative and territorial reform, we will propose a new framework for inter-budget relations. We're going to try to secure a significant amount of resources by place and transfer a large number of programs there. Let the places themselves finance what they consider necessary. I hope that by September 1st, and I invite everyone who wants to get acquainted with our work to the Ministry of Finance, every third Saturday we are listening to this subject, to whom we are interested, please come, give us a hint, help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u60	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u61	Matvienkov, faction of regions. Dear Alexander Vitalevich, please tell us that since you first came to power, for the first time in five years, the price of bread has increased by 20 per cent to 100-120 per cent, electricity has increased by 40 per cent, gas for the population by 50 per cent, gasoline by 40-45 per cent, food prices have increased by 100 per cent. The rate of the bracelet fell by 46 per cent. Social benefits were frozen at the 2013 level. We passed a law that says we have to avoid a disaster that also found somewhere, well, about a billion 40s, we said at that time, at that point. You're saying that the government is working transparently today, no one is stealing anything, no money has to be. Question is, where's the money going? What kind of bank refinancing are we doing right now? So how are we going to increase the "improvement" that we're saying all the time now in a new form? This is one moment. And second moment. When's this treasury thing gonna end, anyway? When do local budgets not get what they've earned?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u62	Sergey Anatoliyovich, I think that we have boldly increased prices by 100, by 20 percent should be divided by the 10 years that we have lived together in conditions where previous governments have increased debts, consumed foreign exchange reserves, including governments that were run by the Party of Regions, and thus, artificially, I emphasize, held prices and kept the currency. All of this had to be eaten by us. So I will gladly share this glory with your governments that led to this. As far as treasury is concerned. I want to emphasize again, we got zero in the treasury account. When the government came to Mr. Azarov in 2010, there were 22 billion in the treasury account. We got zero and 80 billion liabilities. Including 30 billion local budgets that have been eaten. Everything about local payments this year, we're trying to pay. We owe local budgets about a billion today, and we'll pay it off. According to unprotected articles. There's no debt this year. We have fulfilled our obligations. As far as the old man's concerned, what you "eat" we'll give back. But give it some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u63	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Roman Chernezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u65	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Chernezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u66	Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, well, I have been working in Parliament all along, and I am in line with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, the various levels of government, sending about 100 requests to the government, especially the present, our new government, to return a little bit to the problem of road infrastructure in Western areas, particularly in Ivano-France. Virtually every week, in separate areas and populated areas in the region of Ivano-Frankow, there are speeches by people who are blocking transport connections and thus making the main requirement that in some ways some sort of way the work of repairs be restored.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u67	If possible, as much as possible. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u68	To complete, actually, the repair of road infrastructure. I directed specific proposals to Kabmin last week, where to find the funds and where to make the transfers. Regrettably, he was again given a formal notice: this is not provided for by valid legislation. I'm asking you very much, and I'm going back to these questions and I'm going to look at my appeal and I'm going to find a way to make changes to Kabmin's valid regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u69	Mr. Roman, thank you. I, the only thing I can't agree with you, agree that funding is going very badly on the road. I can't agree that we gave a formal discount. I remember our conversation, and I personally signed this letter. And I can tell you that we can't make the switch that you're talking about. But I suggest that the whole room doesn't get involved in this, and I invite you to come up, and we invite the passengers, and we sit together and think about how to be in this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u70	Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. Please sit down. I invite you to speak to the head of the budget subcommittee, Pavlov Kostunica Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u71	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs and invited! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 14 May, with the participation of representatives of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, reviewed the government report on the implementation of the State Budget Act 2013 and the relevant conclusions of the Court of Auditors. As a result of the committee’s work, the state of implementation of the State Budget Act 2013 was affected by unrealistic macroeconomic projections. During the past year, many changes were made to the state budget, which significantly changed the state budget. In doing so, individual changes did not fully take into account the current state of economic development and budget implementation, which indicates the need to develop the State Budget project only by unrealistic macro-indicators and to improve the quality of budgetary planning. Under these conditions, almost 13 billion dollars of government funds are not available. Such a failure could have been much greater if at the end of the year the income plan had not been reduced by 19 billion dollars and the marginal deficits in the state budget and government debt had been increased. As of January 1, this year, taxes on government taxes amounted to 9 billion dollars, 14 percent more than at the beginning of 2013. In doing so, $4.5 billion in tax debt has been written off. It is therefore necessary to step up measures to reduce tax debt and to avoid any increase in new tax debt, as well as to monitor the repayment of the amounts spent and deferred, limiting annual tax write-offs. According to the government budget, the deficit amounted to 4.4 percent of GDP, and the overall fund exceeded the approved limit of over 1 billion dollars. From the privatization of state property to the state budget, only one and a half billion dollars or about 14 percent of the approved rate were allocated. This was compensated by the corresponding increase in government borrowing. Then, largely, government deficit debt financing led to a sharp increase in government debt, which increased by 20 percent year by year to 480 billion dollars or 33 percent of GDP. But I kept it within the limits of the law. By the end of 2013, the remaining funds of the State Budget General Fund were only a mere 45 million dollars. Such a situation makes it impossible for social expenditure to be spent early in the new year in the amount needed. The government budget was a total fund of 11 billion. The money is less than the plan. At the same time, protected expenses, mostly social expenses, are spent almost entirely. At the same time, under-receipts of the State budget have increased social expenditure, which has been provided mainly through government borrowing, the diversion of funds from the special fund and local budgets, the non-implementation of other public budget expenditure, as the previous one has also pointed out. Government representative. Over the past years, there has been an increase in the debt of the Pension Fund for loans of a single treasury account and at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u72	Please turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u73	And it was over 49 billion dollars. Addressing such a problem requires a systematic solution to the budget balance of the Pension Fund. The public budget's receivable continued to increase, while the debt payable to the general budget of the State's general fund decreased, in fact, its volume remained substantial, and the long-term debt in general increased significantly. So to address these issues, the government is: first, to take measures to pay off the budget debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u74	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u75	First of all, to strengthen the supervision of financial discipline by budget managers. Secondly, organise payment orders according to the budgetary commitments made, especially at the expense of local budgets and the State Budget Special Fund. In addition, the costs of the previous fee should not be allowed to be increased. The large redistribution of State budget expenditure indicates the need to increase the responsibility of the chief executives for the quality of budget planning. Given the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors in the distribution and use of the State Fund for Regional Development of Subsidies to local budgets for socio-economic development, individual areas and government capital expenditure, it is necessary to ensure that such funds are used rationally and efficiently. The debt for the midterm loans of local budgets has doubled from a single treasury account that requires a comprehensive settlement of the issue. In the process of processing a government report, taking into account the findings of the Committee on Budget Affairs, a new draft of the 2013 State Budget Implementation Regulation, number 4625-d since 14 May 2014, has been prepared. Unlike the government's draft, the decree is designed not only to take a report from the Cabinet of Ministers, but also to commission the government to resolve the problems and improve the management of the budget. So the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Decree 4625-d as a basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u76	Thank you, Constantine Yuriovich. Please, have a seat. I invite you to report to the head of the Audit Chamber of Maguta Roman Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u77	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, are invited! The College of the Court of Auditors, in accordance with current legislation, approved the conclusions on the implementation of the State Budget Act in 2013 given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in due course and given to all of you. Taking into account the limited time, I will only stop at major phenomena, the issue of budget implementation last year, which can have a positive impact on the implementation of the state budget this year. Implementation of the State budget depends primarily on the quality of the macroeconomic forecast on which the budget indicators are formed. In 2013, there was no economic growth, although a projected 3.4 percent increase was projected. Consumer prices rose by 0.5 percent by December 2012 at 4.8 percent when the 2013 budget was approved. As a result, according to the Court of Auditors, 16 billion dollars of the budget’s planned income was understated. In view of the difficult economic situation, it is appropriate to make adjustments to national economic and budgetary policies quarterly. One of the stimulating factors in economic growth was the low volume of actual flows of foreign direct investment, which in 2013 was half the size of the previous year. A substantial improvement in the investment climate as a result of increased foreign direct investment should be an important factor in balancing the trade deficit, which was compensated in 2013 by net borrowing of credit resources. And loans, as we all understand, have to be paid. The government budget's revenue in 2013 was 7 billion dollars or 2 percent less than in the previous year. This is when tax and congregation overpayments are increased by 30 percent and the amount of unrepentant value added tax is doubled. With a view to preventing the diversion of the negotiable costs of an entity under the conditions of expensive credit resources, it is necessary to address the issue of reimbursement from the debt budget for the added value of the tax. For some time, it may be wise to replace the added tax with a sales tax that is much more transparent for administration. There is no need to increase the liability of tax authorities for unjustified tax evasion. One of the reasons for the failure to pay 29 billion dollars of the planned expenditure was that it was not fully implemented by the State Treasury Office in order to pay off the liabilities of budget managers. In addition, the practice of large-scale budget allocations at the end of the year has taken root. This resulted in non-expenditure for individual budget programs and large amounts of outstanding debt. In 2013, the formation and implementation of local budgets was carried out under a significant centralisation of budgetary resources at the national level. The main source of income for the local budgets remained the transferability of the State budget, which accounted for 52.4 percent of the local budgets. The available resources of the local budgets met mainly the current needs of the territorial communities, while the share of the capital expenditure decreased, which had a negative impact on the socio-economic development of the regions. Thus, decentralization, which has been widely discussed recently, is a key task of reforming budgetary policy. The government budget for 2013 was implemented with a deficit of 65 billion dollars or 4.4 percent of GDP. The deficit was financed by government loans of 161 billion dollars in 2013, 47 percent more than in the previous year. State loans amounted to a third of all government revenues, with a large share of domestic government bonds being purchased by the National Bank. Significant government loans resulted in an increase in the state guarantee in 2013. State debt of 69 billion. It's said to be 480 billion dollars. Part of the state and guaranteed government debt denominated in foreign currency, although declining, remained a significant 59.8 percent. This has been a significant factor in the significant increase in debt in the current year due to devaluation of the dollars and the euro. Suggestions that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u78	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u79	Proposals for improving government debt management and reducing debt risks are presented in the conclusions. This is an increase in the investment focus of government borrowing, the provision of state guarantees. Only to finance self-sustainment investment projects of general government importance and to reduce government budget deficits. I hope that the newly sounded and other proposals of the Court of Auditors will be implemented in these conclusions regarding the implementation of the 2013 State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Thank you, Roman Mikolaiovich. Please sit down. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Suhigo. Prepare the National Deputy Tomenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you all that Parliamentarianism, which originated in England, was a necessity. When taxes began to be collected and a representative group was needed to control the budget. We've heard a report about the budget today, and at the same time, it's a mere rallying political manifesto. Again, the old song. Some foster parents aren't good. And these apriors came very good, very wise and very beautiful. I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance of Ukraine specific questions. This is chapter four. Where it comes from, debt security.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u82	Alexander Vitaliovich, there will be questions for you now. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u83	I'm sorry, Ruslan, but he, what question can he answer? He's not responsible for anything, he's not deciding anything. It is not clear where or by whom. Because we have a terrible problem. In Ukraine, compared to 2012, debt security rose sharply. We become a dangerous country for both citizens and neighbors. Why? A real concrete example. Ukrainian universities, Ukrainian higher education institutions, and Ukrainian scientific institutions make their own living, including at the expense of teaching foreigners. So they're making money. In Zaporozhye there are vases that have tens of millions of dollars in their bills. Their money is now Minfin and this progressive new government are dead, frozen! We understand well what the problem is. GDP is not growing. Well, as it grows, when schools don't have the capacity to buy, buy scientific equipment, progressive. These are the high technologies we're talking about. They don't have the ability to buy the current, decide the light bulbs. One of Zaporozhye’s teaching institutions bought a dormitory bed for students. Fifty percent paid for, 50 percent didn't pay for the treasury! They've thrown out the beds, the students are sleeping on mattresses. People! Either we're doing GDP on a case-by-case basis, or we're doing economics, or we're allowing our educational institutions to develop, or let's be honest, we're going to say that Ukraine is a bankruptcy! If bankrupt, then apply the methods set out in this society. And one more thing. State latent investment in Ukraine is now nearing zero. Remember 2002, 2003, 2004, the government’s capital injections outweighed social expenditure. What do we have, according to the budget report?Oh, my God! The population’s monetary income is rising sharply, and the social cost of drinking is increasing sharply. What kind of civil society is this? Not the salary. And the salary is falling, it's already falling below the critical level. So a person becomes dependent on the state. The state has money, the state has no money, some papers, some successors, the good ones, the bad ones, and it's an eternally vicious circle! The MP's Economic Development Group claims that we're going to start doing economics on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u84	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u85	I'm sorry. GDP growth, or all of our talk about the state budget, nobody needs it or deserves it. You're giving money to Ukrainian science!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u86	I would like to write to the national deputy Tomenka, to prepare for the national deputy Paulov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u87	I'm a little worried about what a very important question is, first of all, we're looking at this rule. And I think the government might not be meeting today when it's listening to the budget report. We had to listen, not for five minutes, but to the fundamental report, because this is an extremely crucial issue, and this is a key issue for Parliament -- the adoption budget and the implementation budget. So I'm going to take a constructive position and I'm going to propose that next time we look at the budget issue, we re-examine our budget code and turn Parliament's influence on the budget process. Because there can't be a situation in previous years where MPs can read the budget and coincide with the Ministry of Finance, if there's a serious impact, or with an official of the Ministry of Finance and the influence of the deputy ends there. We need to restore the situation when we work between the first and the second readings, there is an opportunity for each article to discuss and make changes. Similarly, the situation of white and black regions cannot be repeated because you know how our budget committee decides on transfers or subsidies. I once counted this table that, for example, central Ukraine, central Ukraine, actually turned out to be without funds, because there were 2-3 areas where the basic costs went, and the rest of the areas were running low. An extremely important issue to settle, last year I drove around and asked that they leave money to the village councils, because the village councils proved to be earning more and better management than the districts and areas. And we have experienced that in the rural councils, money was being taken away from the district authorities to finance education or health care. What is the purpose of the village council then to work to earn these funds? So this is also a serious question. Obviously, we'd have to analyze the extremely important state programs that we're continuing to fund in part of the loans, so for example, I'd like to hear what we have with Euro? We're still in debt for Euro-12. So a lot of organizations haven't gotten the money so far, obviously we should go through the dots and say what they did in the 13th, what the 14th has to do. We've had a very big problem, and today we're still in debt, after the 200th anniversary of Shevchenk's birth. We still haven't funded it in the 13th year or the 14th year, the issue of the full Shevchenk collection 9 to 12 years ago, and it's a disgrace to the Ukrainian state, and a lot of other things. So, my friends, I think, in the matter of the budget, there should be a parliament, there should be a government, there should be a government, and it would be good for the Attorney-General to come, and there should be an understanding that this is a key issue of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u88	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Paulov. To prepare for the People's Deputy Blagorodrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again the very draft decree recommended by the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council at 4625d from 14.05. In 2014, which not only proposes to take the report into account, it also recommends that all possible measures be taken by an active government to address the issues that arise from the budget implementation and its failure to accept them in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u90	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Inna of the Divine One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u92	Here's to Inna's word. Prepare the people's deputies, Kudri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the Parliament's attention to the very institution of the Court of Auditors, to what it has become and to the tasks that lie before us. Parliament has voluntarily given in recent years an unconscionable instrument, which is at the heart of Parliament's control over executive power and public money. What has now become the House of Accounts, which is the most effective tool in any parliamentary state to control society over public money? There are mosquitoes, flies, spiders, there are no experts at all. There are accountants who have long served. There was the head of the account room, who was a friend of son Yanukovich and played this place for Azarov, who was to retire to the Rahunkov Chamber. There is no tool at all to control public resources. Today, the first question for Parliament is a full overview of the attitude of parliamentarians towards their instrument, such as the Court of Auditors. It's time to turn your head. The term is to form the right composition of the audience and start from scratch to restore or build a new system of parliamentary control over the budget. Today it's a campaign! Today, the Court of Auditors does not detect any systemic problems or current problems in the use of budget funds. You and I have given the Court of Auditors the right to care not only for the cost of the budget but also for the income. And nothing is done. We don't have this organ. So, first of all, what I'm asking, factions now hold consultations in the middle of the faction and the group, make proposals and come out on this issue at the level of Parliament's leadership, and ask questions about the re-election and re-election of the members of the Court of Auditors so that this body can act effectively as a control body of Parliament, and, therefore, the people, because we are a legislative body with you, on public money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u94	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kudri. Prepare the National Deputy Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u95	Please give my word to my colleague, Baiduk Larissa Makarovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u96	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u97	In fact, the 2013 budget was not implemented because of this, it was made that a lot of changes were made to the 2013 budget. Individual decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the use of the budget are not in line with the rules of the Budget Code. Contrary to the requirements of part seven of article 20 of the Code of Budgets, the objectives of the use of funds under the budgetary programmes are not defined for the tasks of the principals and the reasons and or involvement of recipients of budgetary resources in the execution of the budget programme and their impact in the event of non-use. Well, these are, for example, changes in the way in which funds are used in the state budget for land reform, as well as for the construction of artificial ice and other sports facilities. Shortcomings in the planning and organization of expenditure have led to the need for the Cabinet to adopt inconsequential and infringing effective legislative decisions on the reallocation and transfer of budgetary allocations, both between programmes and chief budget administrators, namely: 77 decisions on the reallocation of budget allocations to more than 9 billion dollars; 7 decisions on the transfer of budgetary allocations from one to the other to the main budget manager for a billion 300 million dollars; 12 decisions on the increase in development expenditure for the reduction of other expenditure over 400 million dollars; 5 decisions on the reallocation of expenditure between administrative and territorial units for 57 million dollars. Well, if you're in some ministries: Minfin - 20 made decisions on Minfin, Health Ministry - 11 decisions, Ministry of Education and Science - 9 decisions, Ministry of Internal Affairs - 8 decisions. Well, the introduction, the centralization of Minfin's capital expenditure to improve their management, is not the only approach to the allocation of expenditure between principals, as well as clear and transparent criteria for the selection of objects and types of work. There are many shortcomings in the use of budgetary resources in the execution of budget programmes that have led to violations of effective legislation and inefficient use of funds. As an example, as of January 1, 2014, in Ukraine, 1 million adults with cancer. And even in this and in the regional departments in this direction, medicine has not used the budget that is used to treat people. Well, our faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is not going to support this ruling in the State Budget report. And we want to take the next one into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u98	Please finish. The national deputy Sabi will give his word to the national MP, Michalchisin, please. Final speech and answers, the final words of our guests.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u99	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In fact, this report that was presented to us today is a very sad and even tragic picture of the state of government finances. Worst of all, we have not heard anything fundamentally new from the Minister of Finance or from the representatives of the Court of Auditors, but we have to admit the facts. We actually have government budget funding today, mostly on government loans. The government's spending about 160 billion dollars is what the state lends, not what comes in the form of taxes. We know at what rate the government debt is increasing. We are asked, the Court of Auditors points out that the issue of the return of business entities to the value added tax is to be resolved. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union believes that in the current conditions of the Ukrainian economy, the current practice of managing VAT generally undermines state finances and the financing of enterprises. A negative attitude towards VAT actually results in an uninterested lending of the government budget to billions of dollars to enterprises that cannot develop, resulting in a decrease in competitiveness. As a result, we see a decline in the investment climate and the trust of foreign investors is undermined. In addition, as the media say, the government is actually planning to introduce VAT bonds to administer this debt to compensate for the added value tax. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that, in particular, to balance the state budget, for a new fiscal policy, a set of measures to eliminate VAT as a criminalised tax that just destroys the Ukrainian economy today is simply an economic diversion against our state finances. This tax must be abolished as Carthage should be destroyed at one time. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u100	Thank you. Final word, please, Roman Mikolaiovich Maguta. Please turn on the microphone. And to prepare, Alexander Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u102	Please turn on the microphone at the lobby.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u103	Dear National Deputies, Reverend Inna Bogoslovska! I still want to respond to the comments that have been made. First of all, in the walls of the Court of Auditors we often call the word illustration. Come on, I'm ready to go through the appropriate illustration. But if we want to talk about the illustration, we need to be clear about what the criteria of the illustration are. All government officials really have to go through it. So if there's an accusation, whether you know it or not, the Court of Auditors worked and worked for the state. Today, indeed, the Court of Auditors has a problem with the formation of the College of Accounts, and this question has been raised more than once in the Court of Auditors. But this is your right, and the vote for the members of the Court of Auditors takes place in the walls of the Supreme Council. So, at this point in terms of the incompetence of the members of the Court of Auditors, believe me, over the past 17 years, this year it has been 18 years since the Court of Auditors, and the expertise of the staff of the Court of Auditors has been confirmed by you, using the findings of the Court of Auditors, both during the opposition and now. The accounting room is an apolitical structure, it can't be shaped on a fractional basis. Politicians should be involved in politics, the Court of Auditors should control the coming of the State budget, the efficient use of State budget funds on behalf of the entire Supreme Council, and not specifically a separate policy. Therefore, the request is an accusation against the Court of Auditors, its expertise, if any, they must be justified. Because not one of the employees of the Court of Auditors has been released to date who have worked and who are working in a fine, professional way. In fact, there is now a change in the structure of the Court of Auditors, a change in the approach to the Court of Auditors. We've been given the right to control the income of the State Budget, there's something to work on. And I urge you all to help, indeed, form a college of the Court of Auditors, because today, depending on the fact that the terms of activity of the members of the Court of Auditors have ended, but the release and appointment here takes place in the walls of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u104	To conclude, I invite the finance minister of Ukraine Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u105	Dear National Deputies! I wanted to thank you for the questions and wishes that were expressed. I would like to stress once again that for all of us the 2014 budget should be a lesson in how not to make the budget. And I very much believe that when we change to the budget of 2014, when we prepare the budget for 2015, we will take into account the problems that have been faced with the 2013 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind all of us that, in accordance with article 162 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, we have a decision to make. We've already received a call from the Special Committee, and I'm only going to remind the distinguished national MPs of a part of the regulatory part. As long as I remind you, I'm asking the apparatus to invite the people's deputies to the session room, as we're about to vote. So, "recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a report by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2013" to take note and give appropriate instructions to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to improve budgetary management in accordance with the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prepared by the National Deputies of Ukraine members of the Committee on Budget Issues." And then you add 11 sheets. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to join the session room now, who is outside of it, to sit in our seats, given that we're about to vote on the draft Ordinance prepared by our colleagues (registration number 4625-d). I ask the National Deputies to determine their vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:34:42]] For 171 The factions, please. Parenthood – 32, Party of Regions – 29, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 2, Economic Development – 28, Sovereign European Ukraine – 22, Freedom – 31, Company – 0, non-fractional – 27. In view of this vote, we take to the well - known report of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next item on the agenda. Yesterday we discussed a draft law (registration number 4621), a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation (for banning foreigners and non-citizens from participating in political activities in Ukraine). I propose today that we now determine by vote, given that we have already actively spoken to you about this bill. Dear National Deputies! Your point. The draft Act (Registration No. 4621) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (referring to the prohibition of foreigners and stateless persons from participating in political activities in Ukraine) is put to the vote. People's deputies are asked to determine by their vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:36:22]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 45, Party of Regions – 1, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 21, Economic Development – 24, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. The author of the bill requests that the vote be re-voted first. the voting. Reading. Excuse me. To read again. Can we put up, distinguished national MPs? I would like to vote on the bill's proposal to go back to re-reading the bill. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:37:22]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 45, Party of Regions – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 25, Economic Development – 21, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 34, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 18. Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is proposed for the next list of drafts to be included in the agenda. Draft Law (Registration No. 4962); draft Decree on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the denunciation of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on visa-free travel of Ukrainian citizens and the Russian Federation. People's deputies would like to decide by vote. Please activate the Council system." [[11:38:35]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 42, Party of Regions – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 17, Economic Development – 1, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 34, The Ukraine Company – 0, non-fractional – 19. Please turn on the microphone. The author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u107	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, I am one of the authors of this decree, this appeal. In fact, it is extremely important in the light of the events that are taking place today on the border of Ukraine, especially in the east, on the border of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Today we have not only a border unprotected, we are not fully regulated today, and we do not meet the demands and challenges of today's border crossing regime by citizens of Ukraine and Russia. Without visas, under civil passports, insiders cross the border hundreds and thousands of people, who in total become terrorists, who are inciting violations of Ukraine's territorial integrity, who are killing and shooting Ukrainians today, and killing and shooting people who are acting for Ukraine's territorial integrity. Today, we offer this invitation to the Cabinet of Ministers to stop the visa-free regime agreement and to prescribe other conditions for crossing the border, for example, you can apply the border crossing with foreign passports, or it is a perfectly normal and civilized phenomenon. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union has been insisting for more than a month, and it has been insisting on the introduction of a visa regime to cross the border between Ukraine and Russia, especially since today we want visa liberalisation, visa liberalisation with the European Union. I understand that there may be a lot of dissatisfied Ukrainian citizens who live in the border strip, but we can put into practice our relationship with the European Union, when in the 50km zone people who live in the border strip can cross the border without a visa. This is as it is in the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union. All of this is for the Cabinet of Ministers to judge, but the agreement on the visa-free border between Ukraine and Russia, which has been in place since 1997, has exhausted itself. And it has to be stopped. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. This is for inclusion, Your Honor, don't raise your hand, you know the rules. And he's the author of the bill. I'll ask you. We're not putting this bill in the agenda right now, we're moving on to the next item in the agenda. Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law, registration number 2469a, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House (for non-admission of violations of the rights of owners of apartments and non-residential premises). What's the procedure? Any suggestions for a reduced procedure? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote on the summary procedure for this matter. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to turn on the "Race" system. [[11:42:20]] For-140. The decision is not taken. May I have the floor of National Deputy Kaltsev Sergey Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! Bill No. 2469a was prepared after numerous conflicts involving the abuse of officials by the associations of joint owners of apartment buildings. Conflicts are most often due to the fact that residents of such houses require money for entry into the home of OSBB members. In addition, citizens who have not become part of the OSBB are hampered by the exercise of their inalienable rights. Abuse is particularly common among new buildings. This is one way to pay particular attention. In the present legislation, there is a requirement that no less than 50 percent of the owners are present in the establishment of the OSB, otherwise it is not possible to create an OSB. And this requirement is that the builder or the striker of the new builder travels in a very specific way. It only implements a few apartments, and then these buyers create OSBB. Clearly, these individuals are likely to be related to a builder or a builder. The following purchases are thus removed from the possibility of participating in the creation of OSBB. In the subsequent office, persons in the FSB are hampering the new owners of the premises from becoming members of such FSBs. The most common way to prevent is to make an introductory contribution. The law does not explicitly prohibit the setting of fees for entry, and the managers of the FSB are able to do so. Although it is clear that such practice is contrary to the nature of the legal relationship involved. Each owner of the apartment has the right to be a member of the OSBB. Another way to prevent the owners of the premises from becoming members of the FSB is to establish a permanent and deliberate procedure for entering it. In each case, different procedural barriers are created. I'm sure this procedure should be as simple and transparent as possible. A particular problem related to OSBB is the concealment of decisions that are approved by its governing bodies. This clearly creates prerequisites for various abuses. For example, approval by the General Assembly of OSB of service contracts at higher prices. This also limits the rights of non-OSBB owners to access information directly related to them. Thus we propose to amend the Law on the Uniting of Coowners of Multiple Houses in this way. Make the entry of the members of the OSBB free and as transparent as possible. The most effective is the so - called application. That is, if the owner of the premises does not receive a valid refusal within the prescribed period after the application has been filed, he automatically becomes a member of such a union. Set the absolute availability of the decisions of the General Assembly of the OSBB for all owners of the building where such an OSBB was created. Such an approach will significantly reduce possible abuse by the management of OSBB, remove discrimination against owners of apartments and other premises, and promote transparency in the activity of such OSBB. I ask the honourable colleagues to support our initiative and to adopt Bill No. 2469a on the first reading, on the basis of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u110	Thank you. People's deputies please sign up. Wait! Wait! There will be answers, questions. Sign up for a question. Any questions for the national MPs? None. Then I invite you to the report of national deputy Saldo Vladimir Vasilovich, deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the presiding officer, the bill is designed to protect the rights of the owners of multi-room buildings, including the right to voluntary and free entry into the membership of the unit, and I emphasize only the introduction, since then a member of the coowners’ association is obliged to participate in the maintenance costs. Also, the right to share in the legal relations associated with the operation of the apartment building. On our committee, this bill was considered in detail. And so it was decided to go to the session room to support the bill in the first reading. There are questions relating to the mandatory payments made by the members of the OSB. They can simply be settled at the stage of preparation for second reading. And it is appropriate to include, in a conflict situation, a list of the reasons why the owners, the coowners’ associations, should be included in this article, because there is a real conflict of interest. This can also be taken into account in the preparation phase for the second reading. In general, the bill meets the requirements of those co-owners’ associations that have addressed both the Committee and the Supreme Council. So there is a request to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a question for the co-conspirator? Please sign up. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u113	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich, the law that was passed in 2001 on the union of coowners, has fulfilled and proved his progressive role. Say, please, how will this law contribute, I think that this issue on the committee has been considered, will contribute to this law in improving or increasing the protection of the rights of residents against the habitation of residential owners, who, you know, often simply take the numbers of payments for residential tariffs from the ceiling? Why, in fact, we have such a contradiction in Ukraine. People don't understand or know what they have to pay for. Will this contribute to the establishment of order or discipline in housing and utility tariffs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u114	These changes to the basic bill, they just predict a better relationship between members of the co-owners' association. Because now some members of a co-owner’s association who do not join, even though they live in this house, and including owners of non-residential premises, who have also failed to improve their legal relationship with the co-owners’ association, can go directly to utilities and other businesses that either raise tariffs or. So this bill just improves relations and relations, it allows for the rights of residents of multi-family homes who have joined the co-owners’ association.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u115	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u116	Please give the word to Momot Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u117	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u118	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Head, dear colleagues, I have such a question for the rapporteur. As an expert, tell me how many laws have been passed, how many rulings have been taken by the Supreme Council, the government, and only bulldozers can carry residents to the OSB. In your opinion as an expert in this matter, why so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u119	Well, the question is not about the proposed bill, but when it comes to the attractiveness of joining the joint owners, and talking about the fact that some of the tenants of the apartment buildings, even when co-owners have been formed, do not want to realize their right to this possibility, it says that, as long as there is such, there is no competition, but there are different views on the maintenance of apartment buildings. So the co-owners' associations, if they're effectively ruling and doing this society, they're much more efficient at exploiting houses. Therefore, this experience should be extended only in that direction. And this bill just provides for improved legal relations, because they've been less advanced before. Here, the introduction to the union of coowners should be voluntary, for you faithfully say that someone wants to delay but does not convince him of what the attraction is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u120	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Tabalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u121	Andrew Tabalov, city of Kirovograd Well, I want to say that the issue is very topical, very, very relevant, so it's important for the State to support it in this regard. Well, I don't have as many questions as the offer. I want to say that, for example, in the city of Kirovograd, with almost one and a half thousand apartment buildings, only 17 were created by OSBB. What does that say and what people say and who live there? First, there's no State support, although it's conveniently very much for the state and the local authorities, because the state doesn't actually finance repairs and the rest of those buildings. The second question. It is necessary to settle the issue of the entry of legal persons into the OSB because it only refers to natural persons. Well, the third wish is that we need more information from the campaign. Because, as I said, for the state and for the local authorities, it is very convenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u122	Well, I have to point out that in Herson, for example, there are 226 multi-houses of 367 joint owners. That is to say, it is really a work that should be done by local authorities constantly to improve these relationships, for example, where they work effectively to unite their owners. Thus, more and more houses are involved in the creation of joint owners. The system has shown its greater effectiveness to date, but, indeed, in this law it is necessary to provide for a second reading, a separate relationship between the union of coowners and legal persons who may have their own accommodations in multiple homes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u123	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Guzenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u124	Thank you. Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. I fully support this bill, but given that co-owners of multi-housing houses have the right to use and participate in the management of common property, a large request is made to more specificize the responsible authorized representatives of these houses so that we can make it more specific and appropriate in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u125	Yes, at the stage of preparation for second reading, we will consider these comments and suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u126	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u127	I'd like to ask you two questions. First. How much of this bill is correlated with the position of the Ministry of Profiles, which today is also sufficiently fundamental to this issue? And the second question. Don't you think it's necessary that the draft laws that we're looking at in the housing industry actually try to adopt in some kind of package? Because when we adopt broken laws, we solve one problem, and then we're left with a lot of others. For example, in the context of the draft law that we are adopting today is the problem of cartilages or those multi-story buildings that are built long ago and where OSBB is creating very and very problematic. So this is the position of the government or the government or the department of profile and the package approach to solving problems that are serious in housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. I note that this bill amends the existing basic law on co-owners' associations. Its purpose is to introduce into this law those details that were not foreseen earlier. Well, we've already discussed them: it's an opportunity to join the co-owners voluntarily, without paying the costs, it's an opportunity to get information about the work of the co-owners' association from his rule for three days, and it wasn't before, and it's a possibility that this bill is given to both those who have joined the co-owners' association and those who are not members of the partnership. In addition, many of the houses have a large number of premises owned by legal persons. Thus, changes are being made to balance the relationship between the tenants and the owners of the premises. This work was carried out in conjunction with the Ministry of Profiles, and we have a clear picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u129	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u130	We're in line with the Ministry. But it's absolutely true: a package of bills and laws that apply to the housing complex, especially the maintenance of apartment housing, requires the organization of the so-called Housing Code. They need to be included in one of the Housing Codes and take into account all those terms so that they do not differ in law. Then it will work much more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u131	The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. If they want to. May I have your word with the People's Deputies of Dudenkov?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u132	Debenkov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I give the floor to Alexander Ivanovich Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u133	Dear Russian Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to stress the importance of this bill to prevent violations of the rights of owners of apartments in the creation of OSBB. This bill deals with the free admission of co-owners and other normative issues aimed at developing a civilized relationship with regard to the operation of this type of right and the protection of the rights of the tenants. Assessing the entrance fee, which sometimes amounts to 10 percent of the value of an acquired apartment, is contrary to the basic principles of legislation regarding the merger of coowners of a multi - apartment building. Thus, this bill will help to stop the abuse of bad associations. But there are inadequacies in this bill. For example, the fact that FSB membership is free of charge, even though the cost of FSB is made up of residents’ contributions. That is why it is necessary to support the draft text on the basis of the first reading and to finalize the draft for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u134	May I have the floor of the people's representative of Demedyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u135	Please pass the word to Goncharov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u136	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u137	Toncharov, KPU faction. Unfortunately, the number of members of the media created is very small. And here are a number of questions that really are. The number of members of the media is very high. There's very little for today. And here's a thousand questions. This is the attitude of the Government towards the homes where they live on funding. But that's the question. Today, it is proposed to improve relations between members of the AMC. And here it is a fair question because even the number of members that are part of it today are making various proposals for money and other demands. The bill therefore proposes to improve this issue. But at the same time, here we propose to make such changes, in particular in part 2 of article 9 of the law, by a new decision of this content: "Conclusion of any contributions or payments for admission to union is prohibited." This is due to the fact that, as already stated, there is a statutory fund, there are mandatory payments and, in order for there to be no change, to make this article. It is therefore proposed that the bill be sent for finalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u138	The people’s deputy, Lapina, is invited to attend. As the national MPs approach the microphone, let us consult. Now is the time of the break, or maybe we'll do it this way, we'll now consider this issue, we'll finish this consideration, we'll now make statements from the factions and then we'll take a break. Is this order accepted? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u139	Good afternoon. The Fatherland faction, the Party for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have carefully considered this bill and we believe that it raises important issues of settlement, very important relations today for Ukraine, because the organization of co-existence of the inhabitants of the apartment house is one of the forms of self-organization of the population in a very important direction towards joint management. And this is the whole new thesis for Ukraine when they started implementing OSBB, it's clear that legislation couldn't immediately take into account all the characteristics of how relationships would be made. And it is clear that in the work of this law, in the process of creating OSBB, we have seen many shortcomings in legal regulation and unexpected forms of abuse. It was indeed unexpected that anyone could be prevented from joining such a union. Because, in fact, the power of this union is precisely that all residents can work together to do shared household chores. Similarly, it is totally unclear why those residents, or those who do not own accommodations that for various reasons did not want to become joint owners, why could they not exercise their rights? Indeed, there is a great deal of legal relations that need to be regulated in a complex way. I am convinced that it will be the turn of the new comprehensive OSB bill, where we will take into account the experience that exists today and the obstacles that are now in the way of creating OSBB. Let's take into account the experience of why people don't want to join the OSB. But in this case, one of the important issues is settled. That's why we think that this bill needs to be adopted as a basis, and then we just need to clarify a number of concepts accordingly. I am convinced that the drafters of the bill meant that there should be no entry fee, but all other obligations, such as membership in the statutory fund, such as permanent contributions made by members should certainly be. Because it's common farming. So I'm convinced that we should just go to second reading to clarify the concept so that this law will still work and take another step to improve the regulation of relationships, and so that OSBs will still be created and prospered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u140	The People’s Deputy, Suhi, conveys the word to the People’s Deputy Philippenck. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u141	Thank you. People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. Dear voters! The bill is designed to ensure the implementation and protection of the rights of owners of premises in multi-room buildings. In particular, the right to voluntary and free entry into the home of a member of the OSB, the right to information, and the right to participate in legal relations related to the operation of a multi - apartment building. In particular, the bill suggests that the entry into the membership of the FSB is free of charge, to establish a so - called application order for entry into the membership of the United Nations. To challenge a petitioner who is denied the right to become a member of a union in a court of law. Determine that copies of the decisions of the General Assembly of the FSB should be made by the appropriate body of such association within three days of the request. In doing so, such an obligation extends both to the requirements of members of the union and to the owners of premises in a multi - apartment building that is not members of that compound. The bill also proposes that the decision to include members of a union or to refuse inclusion be made by the executive body of such a union. The Economic Development Group, recognizing the relevance of the project theme and the need to prevent violations of the rights of owners of premises in multi-room buildings by OSB officials, with a view to the attractiveness and effectiveness of such associations, will support the bill in its first reading. At the same time, between the first and second readings, our group invites all MPs to join and make constructive proposals so that the bill can be adopted as a law for the second reading. That's what we have to offer. Some of them have already spoken. I also want to emphasize literally a few words about them. First of all, we're talking about free entry into OSBB. Because in this case, the one proposed now, I mean part two of article nine of the law, defines membership as free. At the same time, there is a provision of part four of article 21 of the same law, which provides for statutory contributions and compulsory payments to the members of the FSB. Thus, in this case, as has been rightly pointed out, we feel that the application should be free and that a member of the pool of coowners should definitely pay the membership fees. And this is a question that needs to be settled on the committee between first and second reading. At the same time, there was a good suggestion that the owner of an apartment or a house could be a legal person, not just a physical person. And this issue should also be settled. So it's necessary to correct the bill in this part. It also seems appropriate to provide a list of the reasons why a person may be denied membership in an EMSB in order to prevent certain unjustified refusals, abuse. In general, we propose that this bill be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u142	Thank you. Last speech from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to the People's Peace MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u143	Please give the word to the man who stood in the source of the creation of the first Ivano-Frankiv OSBB and actively contributes to the development of OSBB throughout Ukraine, Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u144	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u145	Thank you. Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports this bill, which regulates the order of membership of the OSBB and covers the schemes for the capture of the management of the OSBB by outsiders, other possible abuses in the administration of associations. Unfortunately, the creation of multi - apartment buildings in Ukraine has been stifled and deliberately discredited. In recent years, the State has been completely removed from its promised financial support and maintenance in the homes where residents create OSBB, capital repairs. And only the local communities that I was able to represent as the secretary of the Johno-Frankow City Council in co-financing are helping to unite the owners. But local self - government today is so limited that it is possible to finance the unification of coowners of apartment buildings that without the support of the state, we today cannot increase the large number of joint owners. Today, too, there is no solution to the issue of ownership or the use of associations between coowners of adjuvant territories and, as a result, mass conflicts over construction sites. There have also been frequent cases where the Labour and Social Protection Boards have refused to compensate the residents for their benefits and subsidies. And that's a really big problem for vulnerable populations. And I'm asking the Department of Profiles today to solve these problems, and socially vulnerable levels should receive adequate subsidies and benefits. Also, the actual policy of government is, unfortunately, in the housing and utility sphere, aimed at protecting the interests of service providers, monopolies, management companies, so-called the municipal mafia, not ordinary Ukrainian consumers. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that the self-organization of multi-housing apartment owners is the only way to ensure the proper maintenance and preservation of multi-housing dwellings and to improve the quality of public services. And it needs immediate state support from the profile ministry. The ultimate consumer, the multi-story resident, is most interested today in the efficiency of residential services. OSBB is to become a multi-story resident of that institution, a common property by which they, rather than JJEKs or companies, determine the priorities and control the quality of the services provided. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union supports the bill in its first reading. But today it requires the Ministry to develop a program to assist in the creation of multi-house owners and finally to return to the inhabitants of our apartment buildings in a face rather than a different place. And really, make a transformation into a Ukrainian independent state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u146	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will be able to rest well during the break and return to the session room in 30 minutes. We agreed we'd take a break now. At 12:40 a.m., we will continue our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Thank you so much for taking an active rest. I can see on your faces that you are now inspired and will work with quality. So we continue to consider the bill (registration number 2469), reminding our people's deputies that it is a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the merger of co-owners of a multi-housing house (to prevent violations of the rights of owners of apartments and non-residential premises). So given that we are finalizing the procedure for the full consideration of this bill, I propose that the people's deputies sign up for the speech. Please include the "Council" system and the national MPs who are willing to sign up. May I have the floor of the People's Deputies of Marchinkov, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, please? Turn on the microphone for the people's MP Marchinkov, from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u148	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I wanted to emphasize once again that, in fact, today's creation of multi-housing housing co-owners is the way to solve the self-organization of the population and solve the problems that have accumulated in the residential sector. And today we need to immediately adopt a ministerial program, a program to support the integration of multi-house owners, to allocate funds for capital repairs, and thus to stimulate, in fact, those buildings that are not newly introduced, but those that have both 10 and 20 years of age and 30 years of age. Working as secretary of the Johno-Frankow City Council, he was involved in the creation of more than 60 joint ventures of multi-house owners in the very buildings where they were put into service in 1968, 1970, 1974. But this was only because the city community, the city council in which most have the All-U.S. Freedom Association, co-financed the cost of repairing roofs, basement branches, repairs of trains, and thus encouraged Ukrainians to form a unit of multi-house owners. Regrettably, in recent years there has been a very strong oligarchic lobby that has created management companies that have entered, especially in large cities, and have tried to destroy the unification of coowners of apartment buildings because of artificial obstacles and artificial contradictions in legislation. So today, the adoption of this Law, the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House, will effectively address these problems and, in fact, stop the abuses that are at the entrance, in some cities up to 10 percent of the value of apartments today are required when joining multi-house owners. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom stresses that this law should be passed. So we ask the presiding officer that, unfortunately, today the deputies are not actively participating in the Supreme Council, there is no meeting, and it is time to take off their salary for not participating in the sessions of the Supreme Council. And that's why I'm proposing this important bill to be transposed tomorrow, to consider it first and to accept it, because, in fact, the residents of our apartment buildings today need this law, and we need today to organize legislation to encourage the creation of multi-housing housing units. And the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" stands for profound changes today in housing services and housing and utilities. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u149	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u150	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! Finally, we have returned from the populist heavens, where bills have been considered that give some political dividends to certain political forces, we have descended to the wrong land, and we are beginning to consider those laws, those bills, those legislative initiatives that open up small, let alone small but vicious socio-economic problems that concern people's lives. And one of the bills is the Bill of People's Deputy Sergei Kaltsev of the Party of the Regions, which is aimed at solving the problems that concern people living in multi-family homes. The bill proposes that the introduction of the members of the joint venture of the owners of the apartment house be free of charge. It is proposed that the application for membership be established if there is no refusal to accept membership within 10 calendar days, the applicant is considered to be a member of such association, and so forth. The adoption of such a bill will help to stop the abuse by the unscrupulous association of coowners of apartment buildings, discrimination against owners of apartments, and unscrupulous property. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support this bill in its first reading. But because, to date, even with everything I think in the room, there is a desire to vote, but the possibility is not to vote, there are MPs, so please let this law “not burn” in a figurative manner finish the vote. Today's consideration, discussion and vote should be postponed to Tuesday next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u151	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Kaltsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, in the course of the discussion of the bill, we have come to the conclusion that virtually all factions and extra-fractional deputies support the bill. But we have a paradoxical situation, but as usual, it's all in favour, and we don't have votes. I therefore propose to postpone the vote on the bill to the second day. I'm sure we'll get the required number of votes tomorrow. But on second reading, we will try to take all the amendments into account, because the bill is very important, it needs millions of our citizens, the Ukrainians, and we are confident that the Supreme Council will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you, colleagues, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u153	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u154	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, Fatherland, Kiev. Dear colleagues! The question that we are discussing is an entirely new topic in Ukrainian legislation. It's called life itself. At first, we went to privatize apartments in apartment buildings and immediately there were a lot of accumulated problems, which as a chain reaction developed one by one. What about these apartments? How to unite those people when someone wants to and does not want to, wants to live as he did before. A good idea has come up, which is already being developed abroad, is the formation of OSBB, a common approach of residents of higher houses. My Trinity is a high area, there is no five - story building, not below nine stories and above and above. Because of this in the Trinity, it's extremely relevant, and I have to say that a few dozen buildings in the Trinity have formed their own OSB, and I have to say that you can even take delegations there to show you how smartly you need to solve all the issues of this college apartment in a high-rise building. There are also children’s playgrounds made not by someone’s going to the district administration but by their common funds. It's all painted down, it's definitely a liner down there to check who's going, where he's going, how he's going, what he's doing. These are car parking lots and so forth. I mean, this shape, it's complicated and it needs to be improved. That's the thing. But most of the time, Ukraine is the capital, it's the district centers, it's big cities, it's even district towns, so far the same helpless, helpless ŽEKIs who take money out of people, and then you have to go to them, wrap up the thresholds, ask someone there for guidance to fix you or the roof, or the driveway, or the elevator, or something else. Of course, it's totally unacceptable and difficult, there's a big problem with the fact that even where the OSBB has not yet formed these adhesion areas, undocumented, undocumented and unwarranted, they build their own stands and then I'm going to have to do it like a major deputy, literally or on a non-day basis. Because of the improvements that this bill is proposing, it's totally acceptable, I'm convinced that we should vote for it, but not today, here I am in solidarity with Chechtchev, it's rare, but here I have to admit that really, we have to postpone the vote for tomorrow and vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u155	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u156	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A respected society, indeed, each owner of an apartment, whether a natural person, or a legal person, should make a decision on whether or not to enter into an EMSB and this right is consistent with the content of his or her property rights. The law in force already provides that the adoption of new members is based on the application, that is, a stated voluntary principle. However, any housing - maintenance associations need to be financed to maintain this house. That is why there is a form of unification of citizens such as OSBB, which allows for self - determination of those first - priority measures to keep the house at the expense of the citizens. The main thing is that the change to part two of article 9 of the law proposes that it be determined that the membership of OSBB is free. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the proposed legislative initiative to collect any contributions or fees for joining the union and considers that this is unacceptable and prohibited. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. The only thing we have today, unfortunately, is not enough votes. So I suggest we postpone the vote for tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u157	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u158	Fedoruk, Fatherskin faction, Chernivci, 201 district. I support this law. Because it allows progressive housing forms to be implemented. There's been a lot of talk here that there are some problems in creating the OSBB itself. And one of them is that, for example, the prices at which electricity is released for OSBB, the residents of OSBB and the residents living in the houses of utility are different. Those created by OSB, electricity is given and valued as legal persons. This inhibits the creation of OSBB. And despite the fact that the Cabinet of NCRE Ministers had been tasked with bringing this situation into line, NCRE had not yet carried out the task. It's holding back, once again, the creation of OSBB. Another problem that needs attention. This is because today, for example, in Chernobyl, 95 percent of the housing fund is privatized, apartments. But multi-story buildings remain property of the territorial community. At the legislative level, we need a proper profiling committee, perhaps to develop a law that would allow for the transfer of fully owned buildings to the property of the OSBB. This will also stimulate the creation of new OSBBs. And one more thing. Local self - government programs require city councils to create conditions when it would be interesting to create OSBB. That's what we did, by the way, in Chernobyl. In general, I support this bill in the first reading. Just like the "Paternity" faction. But I also support colleagues who say we should vote for him tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Does the author, the reporter, have a wish for a closing word? Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Kaltsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u160	Dear colleagues! Once again, I propose, given that there are no votes in the room, but there is a complete understanding that the bill needs to be voted on, the proposal to postpone the vote to tomorrow. I am confident that we will vote in the first reading and in the second reading of the amendment, and we will make the bill better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u161	Do we have a co-reporter, National Deputy Saldo, now? None. It does, doesn't it? Well, it's not a new practice for the session room. I'm going to propose that we follow the path that the authors of the law have proposed, and that they are speaking. I would suggest that, given that, unfortunately, there are no people in the session room at this time, we either postpone the vote to a later date or then to the next plenary meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed for the next bill of order of our day, number 3263 – the draft Act amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (as regards the provision of an appeal and a cassational appeal against a court decision). Ladies and gentlemen, does it make sense to conduct a simplified discussion procedure, or do we follow the full procedure? Don't even try. Okay. Then I would like to ask the people's deputy Dobrenkova Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Justice (as regards the provision of appeals and appeals against judicial decisions) has been designed to break the permanent jurisprudence which unfortunately exists because of the current legislation of Ukraine, and the essence of which is that there are obstacles to certain parties that are taking part in the case. These obstacles are that a person who has a dispute in a court of first instance or a court of appeal cannot obtain an objective and fair hearing of a case by a court of appeal because one of the reasons that exists now in the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Justice is that the opening of a case by a court of cassation is a denial because of the groundlessness of the complaint and the fact that the arguments presented therein do not require further examination. I would like to point out that, because of the stated provisions of the law in force, the courts of the court of cassation may, first of all, be able to cover the local courts by which they make unjust decisions, particularly by lobbying their interests by local elites. And Ukrainian citizens who are left alone with justice and who want to receive a full, fair and objective hearing of the case by the court of a court of appeal by way of a decision will find themselves in a situation where the relevant lawsuits end at the stage of the appeal court. In fact, they may be given the approval to refuse a discovery that they cannot charge. Therefore, they are no longer allowed to have an objective examination of the case by the court of a court of appeal and to go to the Supreme Court of Ukraine if there is a need for an accusation. It should be noted that article 6 of the Constitution calls for judicial authority to be one of the branches of state authority and, in particular, to play an important role in the system of restraint and opposition. The judiciary is a reliable law fast that must be in every state to protect the legitimate and legally protected interests of Ukrainian citizens. Accordingly, when Ukrainian citizens cannot have access to objective consideration of the relevant matters, this is indeed a violation, a gross violation of their constitutional rights. As a result, we cannot stand outside and, accordingly, we must make every effort, regardless of the political affiliation to certain factions, to vote on the legislative initiative in question. It should also be noted that there are rules in the current procedural legislation to which the calculation of the time limits of certain court decisions begins to be calculated, not as soon as a copy of the decision is received, but as soon as it is made. It should be noted that, with the validity of the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Justice, the Institute of Short Decisions has been introduced in Ukraine's procedural legislation. That is, in particularly complex cases, the court makes an introductory decision on the resolution part of the decision and accordingly the parties who take part in the case receive the decision. But they can't fully analyze anything because there's no motivational part of the decisions. But legislation, especially in the case of the court’s making a full text of a decision, does not require the court to direct the relevant decisions by the parties, and the parties have the right to be familiar with the decision for a period of time. The bill also proposes to account for the filing period, in particular the appeal, not since the filing of the complaint in its entirety, but since the receipt of the full text of the decision of the Court of Appeal, which may then be the subject of further appeal in the context of the case law. This bill, last but not least, I want to add that this bill is supported by all the MP factions and groups. I offer to accept it in the first reading and as a basis. But due to the lack of votes in the plenary room now, I propose to postpone the voting also to the morning, to-morrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u163	Thank you. People's deputies, please, ask the reporter. Please sign up. Please turn on Alexia Kaidi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u164	Please give the floor to Deputy Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u165	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u166	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleague, I have a question. You propose to remove from article 218 part one of the first possibility, a provision on the possibility of declaring the introductory and resolution part of the decision. At the same time, article 222 changes the possibility of declaring an introductory and resolution part. And the question arises, What has been specifically changed in this article? All the same, you give judges the opportunity to make a short text of the decision, the introductory part and the resolution part. Is it possible to foresee exceptional cases in which a judge is entitled? Because if you provide in another article, the judge will take advantage of this possibility, and in all cases the judges will present the opening and the resolution part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u167	Thank you for asking. I'm going to give you a complete and complete answer on this. If you look at the valid wording of article 218 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, there is really an opportunity for the court to take an introductory and resolution part of the decision. I, in principle, and as I have shown in my own experience, because I am an expert in the field of law, it is not against the court being able to make an introductory (resolutive) part of the decision. Because there are a lot of complex things that need further study and a corresponding additional formulation of the motivational part. But why did I make the right adjustments that you're talking about? The point of the corrections is that, according to the current wording of article 218, in the event of a court hearing, only the introductory and resolution parts of the court’s decision, the court reports when persons taking part in the case will be able to read the full text of the decision. And I suggest that they don't get to know him, but that they get a copy of that decision. The difference between "you can get to know" and "you can get a copy of the decision" is that she understands. Accordingly, once they receive a copy of the decision, they will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u168	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u169	After they get the full text of the decision, they'll get to know it, and what's important is that the time frame of the accusation begins to expire when they get the full text of the decision, not when they're declared in the original edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u170	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u171	I'm asking you to give the floor to the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u172	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u173	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valeriyovich, would Ukrainian citizens be able to have legal guarantees to deal with them essentially by the courts of our state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u174	The cassation complaints, first of all, are being examined by the courts of the cassation facility. But, in fact, it may be worn and for someone it may seem like a mere technicality, but it is very important. Why? Because the law, although not large, will have a major impact on the corruption of judges on the ground. The judges of the first and appeal offices will always know that in the case of an appeal lodged by citizens of Ukraine, the relevant court decisions will be reviewed. And in the case of a gross violation of substantive and procedural law by the courts of the first and appeal institutions, they may also be subject to disciplinary measures, particularly through the adoption of individual approvals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u175	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Konstantin Alexandrovich Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u177	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u178	Thank you. Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. Indeed, the bill’s novelty is aimed at ensuring the legitimate interests and rights of our citizens. Well, I have a small request before, Your Honor, Mr. Alexander, this refers to the standard of persons who take part directly in matters. In order to establish such a standard that persons who took part in the case but were not present at a court hearing were given the opportunity to file an appeal within 10 days of receiving a copy of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u179	Thank you for your decision. But the bill, of course, can be redrafted, but according to once again the requirements of existing legislation, in particular article 222 of the Civil Procedure Code, are rules. to which, if a person has not taken part in the case, the decision-making court has decided accordingly. Having decided on their rights and obligations, the court is obliged in this case to send a copy of the decision, and this is indeed the responsibility of the court. But my legislative initiative is that the parties who took part in the case were present in the courtroom for which the decision was made also gave them a copy of the decision, and not just they had the right to get to know and that is, indeed, the great difficulties in the courts in a lot of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u180	And last question, please turn on the microphone of the People's People's MP, Philippenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Philippeenko, Economic Development, Poltavščina. As far as I understand in your bill you're proposing in the court of appeal that the judge receives the case, he's now entitled to decide on a single basis whether the complaint is justified or not, you're proposing that it be done in a collective manner, right? In this case, can you explain whether this will increase the workload on judges who will start forming colleges and in line with the delaying of the case itself as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u182	Thank you for asking. Of course, the risk of pressure from the courts of the cassation facility will be present, of course. Because when this bill was discussed on the committee of the profile, I'm not going to hide it, the Higher Criminal Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, because it's the Code of Administrative Justice and the Civil Procedure Code that says yes, it's going to be a load. The norm they're saying is a filter by which they don't allow it, but on the other hand, it's a very big abuse. Because it's all business. If the case has been brought before the court of the first instance, the appeal authority, if the person has filed a complaint of cassation, obtaining the terms provided for in the current procedural legislation, with the requirements being met. Why can it be denied the right to an objective consideration of the matter? If the specified cassation complaint is not substantiated, the judge will report three or five are the responsible judge in any case and he will report, they're very fast-moving if they've taken part in the case of the cassation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u183	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u184	Ten, fifteen minutes, even the consideration of this issue of cassation may go on, but when a person presents a situation, he knows that there is a gross violation of the law in force. Whether there has been a gross violation of the court's rules of procedural law, disregarding the right to defence, ignoring certain evidence that, in turn, has led to an unfair decision, and then takes the plea, gets the approval of refusing to open the cassation, which nothing else can do, is more of a violation. I think in this case we need to choose less from evil. And since I have been asked by many citizens to support this bill, the representatives of the profiling committee can also confirm that representatives of public organisations were attending meetings, which also insisted that these legislative initiatives should be taken as quickly as possible, because this is, indeed, a blow to corruption and the abolition of judges of local courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u185	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Germany, Mr. Leonid Aleksandrovitch, to report to the co-rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u186	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice discussed on 14 May 2014 at its meeting a draft Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (as regards the provision of an appeal and appeal against a court decision) (No. 3263), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Debenkov. I'm not going to stop at those ideas of the bill itself, the author has detailed enough about the money he's planning to make in the civil and administrative judiciary, and I just want to point out that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has reviewed the bill and determined that it can be accepted as a basis. The Ministry of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Ukrainian Supreme Special Court of Justice on civil and criminal matters have made their remarks and considered the bill to be of no use. Having carefully examined all the arguments of these important institutions, after hearing the author's comments on the nuances, the Committee, by its decisions, recommended to the Supreme Council that the bill should be based on the draft law, including by drawing on the author's position on the critical points that had been made, is a proposal to adopt the bill on a basis and to work on it for a second reading, removing the issues that need to be further elaborated, according to the National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u187	Dear National Deputies! Will there be questions for a coconspirator? Can we go straight to the factions? Well, then, distinguished national deputies please sign up for the factions and groups, please. From the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" to the performance of the national deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u188	Please pass the word to Oleg Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u189	Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Bondarchukov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u190	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Well, in principle, this law is positive, really, because there is a possibility for the parties to the trial to press charges, to get a decision in hand, because we all know how court cases are handled. It is not possible for the parties to have a decision and to file an appeal or appeal on time. However, as he said, there are also some inadequacies that we predict that the possibility of a court hearing is only an introductory and effective part, and we take this to Article 222. This issue needs to be settled. I asked my colleague a question, and he basically never answered it, because article 222 stipulates that a judge has the right to give an introductory and effective part of the decision. It seems to me that this possibility for judges should be narrowed down so that they do not abuse their right to make introductory and effective. Because, of course, it's a right to leave. We know that there are very difficult cases that take a very long time and that judges may simply not have enough time to deal with cases. Because we know that, for example, some judges are looking into 10 trials a day. If we deprive them of their ability to make decisions just the introductory and effective part, the judge will be able to deal with one or two cases on a day, because writing the full text of the decision sometimes takes several hours. The positive point is that in the cassation, the possibility of receiving a cassation complaint we deprive the court of a cassation institution of sending a cassation complaint without considering that it is unfounded and the arguments it makes do little to test the material of the case. We all know that the courts of higher institutions, especially those of the High Court, are abusing them, they're returning cases without consideration. The so - called trinity is being considered, the issue is being hailed without consideration, and the side of the dispute, they're being deprived of the possibility that the cassation agency will review the decision. In general, with regard to the judicial system, I want to say that all these changes are very good for the procedural codes, and we need to reform the judicial system in accordance with the law that we passed on restoring trust in the courts in Ukraine. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" has acted as one of the co-authors of this bill, and we demand that we finally create a temporary special commission to investigate the activities of judges of those courts who condemned participants in the field and other cases, because we are idle and people are demanding that society and the Supreme Council, as a reflection of this society, finally take up their responsibilities. We demand the creation of a temporary special commission. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u191	Before the speech of the People's Deputy Chechtov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u192	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues. This is the second law, which is also not from the political sky, but from the law that addresses the specific problems faced by people who produce documents in the courts that create more normal human conditions. A bill prepared by the Ukrainian National Deputy from the Party of the Regions, Dudenkov Aleksandr Valeriyovich, proposes amendments to article 212. Ukraine, on the part of the deadline for filing a complaint, and to determine that it should be filed within 20 days of the date of receipt of the appeal, and also to exclude Part 5 in Article 214 of the Code, which provides that the judge refuses to open the appeal, the grounds for the groundlessness of the appeal. The adoption of this law will result in the guarantee to the parties of the right to a cassation review by the court of the cassation institution by way of exclusion from the Ukrainian CCP, the KAS of Ukraine, of the refusal to open the cassation proceedings because of the groundlessness of the cassation complaint. The faction of the Party of the Regions invites the sessional room to support this law in its first reading. Well, we also support, I think, the general opinion of the Hall that the vote on this law is due to take place tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u193	People’s MP Philippeenko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vladimir Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. Of course, much has already been said here to support this bill. Indeed, there are some novels that can be treated with approval. But at the same time, with three minutes of time, I want to draw my colleagues' attention to the next one. I wasn't just asking the bill's author about whether or not the novel he proposed would lead to a certain gravity, to an extension of the court's case? And I actually got a positive answer that what's meant by opening the case, that the judge isn't going to solve this one-on-one question, but there are going to be colleges that are going to solve this question, it can actually lead to a draw. Of course, both in the Constitution and in the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, and in the international instruments in which Ukraine is a party, citizens' right to access justice is guaranteed. Access to justice in particular includes not just the possibility of resorting to a court but the possibility of your case being resolved quickly. Of course, the speed of the proceedings means that citizens will be given access to the execution of a court decision. Now we're talking about changes to procedural codes that relate to cassation. Where the court no longer decides the matter in substance. He can't prove it, he won't analyze it. He only checks the correctness of the rules of procedural and material law. So actually, this is already done. Now, let's imagine, there's a lot going on right now when the right to a cassation charge is being used arbitrarily by the party to stop the execution of a decision. For example, if the tax side is tax, they're going to charge everything in a row. Natural persons/entrepreneurs and legal persons cannot achieve justice. In other civil and legal conflicts, the parties also misuse these rights. So in this case, when a person gets a court decision, he's ready to start implementing it, doing it, that's getting some satisfaction, citizens will use the situation as an opportunity to avoid civilian responsibility. And I think it's a pretty important place to get to this point. We need to understand that in this case a decision that has gained legal force is subject to enforcement, that is, citizens who have sought protection, should receive not just on paper this protection, but the ability to implement it. In this case, the author suggests that the situation should be changed. In this case, I certainly believe, and the position of the group of ours is that this will lead to a pull, to the impossibility of a quick resolution of the legal conflict in court. We will support this bill in the first reading. But the Economic Development Group is considered necessary between the first and the second readings to make appropriate adjustments in order to bring it into line with the realities of today's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u195	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Please sign up for the performances of the National Deputies. Please. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u196	Thank you, Mr. Head. With regard to the arguments of colleagues from other factions and parliamentary groups, in particular, that I allegedly unresponsively answered the question to a colleague from the U.S. Freedom faction, I have given a comprehensive answer in general and noted that the motive for amending article 218 of the Civil Procedure Code is changing to allow a valid editorial to become familiar, I propose that the court be obliged to give the full text of the decision. I think that's a comprehensive answer. On the other hand, a respected colleague on the MP faction "Economic Development" is talking about leverage. So, frankly, it doesn't exactly fit the reality. Why? Because, as once again, according to a fellow member of the MP's "Economic Development" faction, Philippeenko Volodymyr, at the time of the court's decision, has gained legal power since his declaration. Accordingly, the implementing letter is provided by the State Executive Service in the definition of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of the Term and the party concerned can already enforce the relevant decisions in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Administrative Justice. The proper opening of a case-by-case hearing by a court of appeal on the basis of the Civil Procedural Code, or the Code of Administrative Justice, does not stop the proper execution. Yes, the parties can raise concerns about stopping the execution of a court decision that has gained legal power. But if the court of a cassation actually sees a gross violation of the requirements of a procedural or material right that is actually violated by constitutional or other legally protected interests or the right of the party to take part in the consideration of a case that is bad. By this bill we only increase the guarantees of constitutional protection of the right to an objective hearing by the court of a court of cassation, the right to judicial protection, which is a fundamental principle of the constitutional justice provided for in article 129, paragraph 8, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u197	Before the speech of the People's MP of Peace. The national deputy Leonov gives him his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u198	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to thank the MPs who are not in the room and who have given us the opportunity to discuss some issues on a full-time basis. And what's relevant about the bill is that it has to be supported. But thanks to you -- not available, we can talk about what he really cares about and what the hall is closing its eyes on. So let's still talk about, including using the possibility of closing borders with Russia. Because this is a very important issue that has not been resolved today, and without it we cannot pursue a successful ATO. Because constant power across the border, that is, all of these fighters and terrorists are unable to stop the vachanal that is happening in the East. It does not allow for the protection of peaceful citizens living in the East! It does not allow us to make an adequate decision! Now here's the next one. You remember these moanings and tears that you can't break up with Russia because the whole East is working for Russia and we're going to take out thousands of jobs, or tens of thousands. No question! Perhaps it was once relevant. But look what is happening today. The factories on Donbassa have stopped! And why did they stop? And because Russia did it! Because she's aggressive, she's having her unobsessed self-absorbing, all of that, sorry, the stalemate who is currently fighting on the side of the separatists is forcing our factories not to work. And that after that, Russia and I have to actually support diplomatic relations, for example. Recall what Russia did to Georgia and how Georgia responded adequately to Russian aggression. Then we need to think about perhaps breaking up diplomatic relations with Russia, protecting ourselves from Russian aggression! Instead, we are the most important issues in the order of the day’s existence of the country simply reject and deal with matters of no less importance, but which will resolve, I emphasize, will be after we normalize the situation in the country! And let's talk about that too. Next! Providing our Armed Forces and all the forces involved in the anti-terrorist operation. The interaction between these forces. How can it be that the border guards fight for twelve hours without any help? Who has the responsibility? Why do we close our eyes to these shocking facts? Why do we hide from ourselves? We have a problem, let's talk about it and not be afraid to solve it! Therefore, we make decisions and are in charge of decisions!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u199	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Shipko? Yes, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u200	Andrew Shipko, Dneproperty, 35 constituency. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished voters, are hearing a great deal about judicial reform today. In fact, there is still a great deal to be done to restore trust in the courts. And it's not a month's work. It's no secret that bringing a private citizen who is not a legal specialist to court, well, it's a complicated process and it's not going to be any easier than that. I believe that we people's deputies must act primarily for the benefit of the citizens. Improve the process and make it clear and understandable. Such changes should contain as many standards as possible to protect our citizen. And this bill is one of the first steps that has led to the simplification of the judicial system. It implies the right of a citizen to appeal in cassation. This will enable our citizens to be heard in higher courts. I therefore propose to adopt this bill on a first-based basis, and I will vote in favour. And I ask the people's deputies, my colleagues, to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u201	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Butkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u202	Respectable comrades. Judicial authority in Ukraine. play an important role in the development of a democratic and legal state. To be an effective guarantor of the effective and timely protection of the rights and freedoms and interests of citizens. The exercise of the right of a person to a judicial remedy is done, inter alia, through the prosecution of court decisions in the courts of an appellate body. Since the review of such decisions in the appeal system guarantees the restoration of violated rights and legal protection of the interests of the individual and the citizen. In this regard, the adoption of the bill will have positive consequences, including the introduction of the same approach to the institution of appeal, the time limit and the procedure for filing an appeal before civil and administrative courts, and the reduction of cases of court abuse and the delay in the process of filing a full court decision, and the provision of copies of copies. I'd like some backup. And our faction will vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u203	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u204	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! The biggest problem in our country, after corrupt and criminal power, is dependent and corrupt justice. You'll never find the truth in the courts today if there's no money, if there's no "hairy hand," if there's no judge or prosecutor's relative who either falsifies criminal cases for orders, or if there's a lot of money for them to close. And that's why when I have those who created the criminal justice system trying to convince me how they want to improve and modernize it, I can't believe it in Stanislavski. I don't believe it! Because you've done everything you can to run this court system by hand, you've killed people's faith in independent justice, you've completely destroyed the notion of independent justice in Ukraine, and today you want wolves in sheep's clothing pretending to be Janukovich's gang's remains, you're trying to convince us today that you want to improve this justice. Why didn't you parasites improve it when you were in power? And then what did you decide all your questions about, and because of the courts, you took possession of property, you violated motivated political affairs, you planted political opponents, and today you're hanging on our ears? But you go to the people, ask them how many bribes they have to pay to get a court order! How many thousands of people have been in prison for years without a legal court order! And that's why I'm taking this opportunity to contact the Attorney General's Office with a parliamentary request. I believe that the decision must be made that all citizens of Ukraine who have been sitting in detention centres for more than a year without a court sentence should immediately change the measure of precautionary action, as a minimum of non-refoulement. Because when, I know of cases where people are three, four, five years in prison, not having a court order, who has the right to deprive a citizen of his liberty without a legal court order. And how many hundreds of thousands of failed court decisions on children of war, on the Chernobyls, on the Afghans? Where's justice? Where is the constitutional rule on the obligation to enforce a court’s decision? You are regionals and commies, this hydra, this symbiosis of oligarchs and communists, you have destroyed independent justice, you have trampled the Constitution. And today you continue to sit in the Supreme Council, today you continue to destroy Ukraine! Shut up, motherfuckers! Keep your mouth shut, traitors, see how this sonar screams, because the truth is the eye of the wheel, because your place is long in the history dumpster, and you're sitting in the Supreme Council, chasing you all in the neck, and you have to retire. Darmoids, shame, commies and regionals!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u205	Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u207	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u208	Thank you. But it's just going to be a replica, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u209	I'm sorry, Mr. Dudenkov, you're about to have a closing statement and you can. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u210	Thank you. Sphen's word then.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u211	Then please, Spinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u212	Thank you for your understanding. The bill is intended and intended to guarantee the parties the right to review cases by a court of appeal. I'm not going to repeat all the positive positions of this bill, I'm just going to point out that I personally like a national MP, and I'm going to have a very large number of appeals from citizens and from law-enforcement organizations with a call not only to support this bill, but also to view it as a front-line and as a society that is very much needed for now. Please listen to the citizens' requests and support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u213	I would like to take you to the conclusion of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Dobrenkov Aleksandra Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! Again, I urge you not to listen to certain individuals who, in particular, teach us that we have formed a criminal power and criminal justice. We're not judges, we weren't dealing with these cases. If, accordingly, the court has allowed certain violations of the rules of substantive and procedural law, there are mechanisms for drawing them to disciplinary responsibility. The bill, as one of the colleagues said, is indeed a small one, but a step forward in reforming our procedural legislation, which is to open and guarantee the access of certain citizens to court-martials. And even for the above-mentioned drafts, unfortunately, there have been some sort of negative statements about individuals who had certain convictions for committing crimes that may have some biased attitude towards the courts, because in the past have committed socially dangerous acts and have been criminally liable, I would have asked voters not to pay attention to these criminal populists, who, in particular, ignored the law, the fraudsters, in principle, and, accordingly, to undertake an objective analysis of this bill. As for the people, go up to the people and ask them. Well, you ask. Civil organizations have come and asked for this bill to be adopted, and please select the words of the next time. And Mr. Chairman, you are asked to exclude those individuals who are simply insulting other members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed a bill (registration number 3263) amending the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Administrative Judicial Code (registration of appeals and cassation of court decisions). At the request of the authors and deputies of the Supreme Council, we will postpone the vote on this issue for the next time. I invite the distinguished National Deputies to consider the next issue of the agenda, the bill (registration number 2377), the draft Act amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine (counting and technical inventory). Ladies and gentlemen, I request a report from the Ukrainian National Deputy Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u216	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your point is the bill No. 2371 amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on accounting and technical inventory. The more this room spoke and referred to the rights of local governments, the more each year the local self - government authorities, in fact, had the rights they should have and should have exercised. On February 11, 2010, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions and Other Legislative Acts, which introduced the Act on National Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions and amended the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government. According to these changes in the list of delegated powers of implementing authorities in rural, rural, urban, residential, residential, residential and commercial areas, public food, transportation and communications were removed from registration in accordance with the law of immovable property, regardless of the form of property itself, and only accounting was left. I would like to say that for many decades the accounting and registration of immovable property objects has been carried out by local self-governance authorities through the creation of utility companies called the Bureau of Technical Inventory. Thousands of highly experienced experts have worked and are now working in the field of their work, and a wealth of experience is being accumulated, and a vast array of archival information is being preserved. All of this is essential for the benefit of both the citizens and the territorial communities. But it was accepted that the authority given was taken from delegated authority in the local authorities. To the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule, hundreds of appeals were made by local authorities from the local self - government associations to restore this justice. In response to these appeals, a number of Ukrainian national deputies, namely: Kilinkar, Honcharov, Kartashov, and Fedoruk, the bill was drafted. We suggest that, honourable ones, take the first step towards restoring the rights of local self - government authorities, and we propose that delegated powers be delegated to local government authorities, granting them the right of technical inventory to the law of immovable property, as well as its handling. Today, this bill is supported by all, without exception, by the district, district, and local councils of Ukraine, their associations and the Association and the BTI Palace, which have repeatedly addressed the committee, which repeatedly addressed the factions and national deputies of Ukraine. The bill will still allow for the restoration of justice, which, according to local government authorities, they have without justification taken away such rights. I would like to say that the Bureau of Technical Inventory, which was formed by local self-government, were utilities that worked and budgeted. The bill does not require any expenditure from the state budget, but rather it will do everything possible to fill local budgets. Thank you, I think that my colleagues who are going to speak in this discussion, they have a huge experience working in self-government agencies, will complement exactly what I'm told. I'd like to support this bill, but I'm looking at how many of us are in the Ukrainian National Deputies' Hall, so the decision, the final vote on the bill, I'm still going after it, I'd like us to move on to tomorrow. And from talking about supporting the organs of self-government in words, moving on to practical implementation, in effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any questions for the rapporteur? Please sign up for it. Before you ask me questions. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u218	I'm asking you to give the floor to the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u219	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u220	Alexander Momot, 27th District of Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, your report is very convincing and I agree with you and tell you whether you and your co-authors have studied the experience of our neighbours in Slovakia, Poland there or Germany as they do? I don't think they're going to Berlin or Bratislava.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u221	I am grateful for this question, and I would like to say that this bill just takes into account international experience. And so that we can really get back to the community, to the citizen of this service as close as possible. I would also like to say that in the past, there have been several attempts and working groups at the Committee on Economic Policy and at the level of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to address this problem. But every time they ended up with nothing, we came across the President's veto. And the last veto in general was a legendary one that our parliament didn't know. When no comment was made by the President of Ukraine, however, it was said that it was proposed by Minjust and that he built the empire and the very money flows that were to flow through certain structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u222	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Popeskov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u223	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, we support your bill. Remember, we are constantly discussing this issue, and in the past, we are calling. But I would like you to give a concrete answer for our voters who are now listening. How much easier is this calculation, calculation and technical inventory going to be when we move it all to the local level? Because today, you know what bureaucratic obstacles our citizens face in solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u224	During the 80 years of the Bureau of Technical Inventory, you know that local self-governance has formed these community-based enterprises, and this is a very great experience. There is serious and very technical documentation and other provision of these services. Today all of this is developing, you know, there are utilities, there are both private and there are others. But the vast majority and the vast majority, it was 30,000 BTI workers who had worked successfully for many years in that kingdom. There is another problem today, the very value of those services. And as you know, it's the deadline. Today, what we have done with the change in real estate rights has, unfortunately, not simplified, but pushed people away and made these services more expensive. I'd like to say one more important thing. We took these powers from local governments, but in other laws we gave this right to people without citizenship and foreigners, think about what we're doing, to run an atomic power plant in Zaporozhye.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u225	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u226	technical inventory, these documents of a stateless person or GES, or other very important things to the state. You can't let that happen. And you have to put it back in the way it was for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u227	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u228	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u229	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u230	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm listening to you, and I feel like it's only today that your faction is protecting local self-government. And I would like to point out that, in fact, by voting with the Party of the Regions, you took the authority of local councils to give a witness on the right to property. And including the destruction of the BTI system. In fact, your faction voted in favour of the Tax Code and destroyed a number of taxes that went to the local councils, including the transportation congregation, which is going up today rather than staying, the bills that you voted with the Party of Regions and destroyed local self-government. And many other laws that are on your conscience. Therefore, you should not tell us today about the protection of local self - government, but you should be responsible for the disgrace that you have over the years voted and seized the authority of the local authorities. And today you go out to the rostrum and you start teaching everyone that you're protecting local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u231	I think there was no question. The speaker is quite a young MP, he just doesn't know the story. I would ask the Association of Local Self - Government Authorities (I, as Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government in the past), and they will answer your questions. And including the voting of the Ukrainian Company, I'd like you to look at the Council information system, if you know how to use it, and there you'll find out who voted for it. And these baseless accusations are just for people to hear you say something here, and you didn't actually say anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u232	In my report, I invite the head of the State Building and Local Government subcommittee Kartashov Eugène Grigorovovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u233	Dear Chairman, colleagues, the more we talk today about the decentralization of our authority today and the more we move away from this principle. And we understand that we need to make the adjustments that today will still allow us to raise our heads to local self-government, to do everything we can to improve funding and to make it fair for it to exist from this very time that we will adopt this law. Because it's not possible to govern today, and that's where the foundation starts that gives you the perfect ability to know exactly what's going on in the city, in the area, in the village. And then make the right calculations and tell us how to follow through on this. So at our committee meeting, which we discussed at the end of last year, we unanimously decided to support this proposal. Although the Chief Research Authority is protesting such a decision. But I mean, I was with you. The heads of the Association of Ukrainian Cities, and all associations and village and district and district and Ukraine's cities, all unanimously asked to tell the people's deputies that they were asking to uphold this law. Because he is the one who will be able to survive today, as they say. So I very much ask all the national deputies to uphold this law. The chairman faithfully said today and brought to each of us what must be done today. This is the request of all those who are now engaged in local self - government. I think that if we adopt the relevant laws and regulate the laws of local self-government and the Constitution in this respect, where we have decentralization of power, we will know that this is the first step that we can take before the time that we adopt these laws and make appropriate changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u234	Honorable People’s Deputies, Associate Reporters, or Presents at once? To the co-conspirator. Please sign up. Please wait, you'll have a question. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u235	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u236	Please turn on Guzenkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u237	Thank you. Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. Dear Eugene Grigorovich, you represent the high management of local self-government. I have a banal question. Indeed, with the transfer of important functions to the local councils, yes, we should still make sure that appropriate funding is available so that local councils, local self - government, can carry out all their both delegated and their own responsibilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u238	I support that position, and I want to say, if we don't change the budget code, we can't do anything good because we can give power to that authority, as they say, and die on the spot. Therefore, the Budget Code should prescribe the very rules that will allow local self - government to receive the money that is earned in its territory and properly calculate the essential, necessary work that is needed today for a particular region or region. I support that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u239	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Tomenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u240	I'd like to make it clear, well, my colleagues talked about it the same way, you know, a paradoxical situation. Who is to blame for the adoption of the bill since 2010, were happy to say that it is a unique tool for how these issues should be addressed. Postponed until 2013. They could not convince the government, Minust, and the President, and now they are happy to say that we should return to the system of local self - government. Well, someone voted in favour of this bill, someone convinced him, someone supported him, and so on. As it happened, in the Janukovic team, in the government team, in the Justice Department team, a corrupt system of earning money and raping local self - government. Maybe I have a question, maybe you know this ideologist who destroyed local self-government on the Yanukovich team. Who should be responsible for the four years of a corrupt system that worked effectively in the previous period?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u241	I am the only thing I can say about this, as much as we have not accused each other, we must take concrete steps today that will finally allow us to transfer power to local authorities. If we do this to you now, then the people will clap and say thank you so much. And what happened before, we're just going to take a little bit of a step back, let the historians deal with this issue and the politicians. What do we need to do now? I think we're building good plans today, and we need to work it out together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u242	Please turn on the microphone of the National MP Sikori.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u243	Please pass the word to Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u244	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u245	Vladimir Yavorowski. Well, obviously, so the former BTIs there and the BTI Post are colossal queues, it's bribes, it's waiting, it's exterminating nerves from customers, people coming in wait months to form depending on what. Well, I guess it's okay. Put it in place, it'll do it faster. But tell me, please, doesn't it seem to you that after this law, where bribes were in one place, in that place, let's say, BET there and all that, these bribes are going to run on all village councils, on all city councils and all that. And in this way, of course, we will enrich the Ukrainian people with bribes. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u246	Well, I think that the laws that we are now adopting and the proposals that are being made today to fight corruption will be enough to keep this from happening. And what it is to people who need help today and to do some inventory is to say thank you very much. So I think it's going to be the right course, and it's not going to happen what you're saying today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u247	Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's consult. We've got factions coming out of the factions. We are approaching the end of our time. I suggested that we discuss the factions from the factions and then decide on our next job. I'll ask the factions and groups to sign up. There's still time, there's still 2 minutes, then we'll announce the continuation of work. I would like to welcome you to the presentation of the People's Deputy of Matthew. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work until the closing of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u248	Thank you. My fellow Members, first of all, if I speak to the substance of the bill that we are currently discussing, I would like to remind individual underprivileged MPs that the faction of Communists voted unanimously, as always, against the adoption on 11 February 2010 of the Supreme Council of the Corruption Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions and Other Legislative Acts. That's right, to be precise. We could not agree that, according to this bill, or already by law, there had been changes in the list of delegated powers of implementing bodies of rural, rural, urban, residential, domestic, commercial, public, transport and communications authorities. In particular, authorizations were removed from registration, in accordance with the law, of immovable property, irrespective of the form of ownership. And along with what you know and remember, the clearance of the property was abandoned. So today, when we talk about the necessity of adopting a very important law that our colleagues have enacted. We should point out that the adoption of this bill will allow for improvements in legal certainty, especially in the activities of the executive bodies of rural, rural and urban councils. They will also be clarified, particularly in the area of housing and utilities, based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is to transfer certain powers closest to the person, to our constituents of the chain of power mechanism. That's why we call on all the national MPs to support this bill, which is essential to our ordinary people today, especially our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u249	May I have the floor of the Tomenka People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u250	Honorable Citizens of Ukraine, Honorable Individual Deputies of the Supreme Council! I'd like to ask a question about history, now it's fashionable to talk about the son of the President of Ukraine, who had his own vertical authority in Ukraine, starting with the staff assignments in the country and ending with the money laundering, the conversion centers, as long as the verticals to the village were practically coming. But I'll tell you, especially to those who listen to us and see that this real estate registration system was also created for a son, one of the former ministers. That our sons flourished in the previous period, not just from the royal period, I mean to give birth to the president. So if we're talking about this sad story today, which has been going on since January 2010, when local self-government screamed, when communities didn't know what to do when the queues started, bribes went up, no sign of who to wear, who to wear and so on, and then they said, there's one place to carry, so it's going to be solved. The bill was postponed because it was so hasty to accept it that no one prescribed it, and I remind you, it was postponed until 2013, by voting on the law in 2010. After 2013, they also did nothing because thousands of people cannot be trained professionally in a short period of time, as has been done. We all know the price of BTI with you. But against the backdrop of another model, of course, BTI is. Well, I'd say once I was asked how the authorities in Kiev differed from the authorities in Chernewsky, and I said that it was only different from what was stolen for the Omelchenka, but reddish and not reddish at Chernewsky's. So with the BTI system, the same story that there were bribes and so on, but there was a clear logic, you could look for, as it were, professional explanations and so on, and this is a purely commercial scheme that was introduced. So my proposals are as follows. First, the request to the Attorney General's Office to examine which of these commercial structures, although authorized structures were designed to do so, as they did, how they used the funds and so on, so that we could hear some conclusions. The second story is that when we vote on this bill, we need to understand and have an analysis, which is exactly where we stopped today, where the remnants of the BTI and where the new structure were created. Well, that's the last piece. I love that we're all in favor of widespread local self-government and decentralization, and we say we have to accept the Constitution. Here's an example of how tens of the rules of the Local Self-Government Act should be brought back, and that would bring back local self-government to a large extent, without even touching the Constitution. So, friends, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u251	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u252	I want to thank the disciplined responsible national deputies, so few of us are left, and I hope that undisciplined, irresponsible, anti - national, anti - state - minded MPs who are not, will fulfill their duty tomorrow and will vote in favour of this important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u253	I'd like to take you to the People's Deputy of Glazunov, the faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to give the floor to the people's representative of Momoto, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u254	Yes, pass it on to Momot, the National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u255	Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you for appraising our work with you in the almost empty hall. But I don't want to tell you about history. I didn't have it. The adoption of the project will enable the territorial communities and their self-government bodies to exercise their powers more effectively. This is how most countries work, and I asked the author how our neighbors work in Germany, Poland, Slovakia. Of course, all of this is settled in places, and local self - government is the master of the territory. This must be the decentralization that everyone's been talking about lately. So I propose to support this law in the first reading, to refine it to the second reading, and to adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u256	I would like to welcome you to the words of National Deputy Marcinkov, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u257	Ruslan Marcinkov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Here the red faction said that it had nothing to do with the destruction of local self-government. But I would like to emphasize. Who voted in favour of the Tax Code, which destroyed a number of taxes, including the transportation congregation and the market congregation? Actually, it's a red faction. Who voted in favour of pension reform? Who voted for other laws that destroyed local self - rule? And today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today this faction tells us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u258	Please. Did he call you your last name? He didn't call it names or factions. I'm sorry. Please. Please don't disturb me. No fractions are specified, no nicknames are given. I'd like to ask you not to disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u259	voted in favour of the budget of Azarov-Januković, which created the billions of debts of Treasury. And today local self - government cannot. can't fund a child's diet. We must be responsible for our actions, we must be responsible for our votes, for the destruction of local self - rule, and for the destruction of the country. But our faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires that one day of plenary devote, in fact, to local self-government. More than 40 drafts were drafted by the factions of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union to restore authority to the local authorities. Today, we demand that they be placed in the order of the day and considered. In particular, there are 2283 changes to the Ukrainian Budget Code, which will allow today the cost of repairing roads, schools, and gardens, the so - called development budget, to be kept in state banks, not in a treasury that will largely unlock local self - government. That's what we have to accept today. 2622 is the fair distribution of subsidies for socio-economic development. 2314a is about paying taxes on the income of natural persons at the place of activity, not the registration, which will significantly increase the costs of rural, rural and urban councils. More than 40 Freedom Bills are now under consideration by the Supreme Council. And today we are obliged to accept this so that the local authorities feel that we are not engaged in declarations, but we are really helping the city, village, village councils to regain the powers that have been stolen by the red faction of the Party of the Regions. So stop lying. Today, laws must be passed to local self - government and the local authorities must finally be effective, that they have the resources and authority. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u260	Here's to the statement of the faction representative, the strike party of the people's deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u261	So far, don't go. Of course, the question of decentralization is extremely relevant, and I am convinced that if Parliament starts these applied, substantive discussions on this subject, Parliament will take this initiative and will be dealing with parliamentary work in Ukraine. But I'd like to focus on two other questions. Decentralization is the transfer of powers, but decentralization to whom? Let's see what's left after what excrements remained after Yanukovich, equal mayors of cities, in parliament and so forth. Today we must not allow Yanukovich's rematch in Ukraine, we must do everything we can to ensure that Putin does not have this disgraceful equipment in Odessa, when the results of the vote have been falsified and in fact the citizen of another country, who has 2 Russian passports, can now rule the city of Odessa, Odessa, Odessa region where there are ports, Putin will thus block the entire agricultural economy of our country and 10, 12 million Ukrainian peasants will be out of work! Because no colossal tree that grew on Ukrainian soil would have the right economy. Next. There's gonna be a trial tomorrow at the mayor's office in Mamay. And I invite you, the city of Poltava, Mamay, and I invite all the Poltavas to come and support a principled judge who, despite the pressure of his leadership, takes the principle of civic standing and will judge the law and the Constitution. And the last. I hereby declare that we are part of the Parliament, the people's deputies who still care about Ukraine and the future, to remove the Communist Party of Ukraine, its faction from the Supreme Council! [[Applause]] I'm informing you that I've already brought you to justice, the Kyiv City Administrative Court, so you can be denied the status of the faction in Parliament! Because you don't have to call yourself that under the law. You don't have any majors. You're being pulled by Yanukovich! He drew you the percentages that allowed you here as if to represent people’s interests! You're a bunch of oligarchs, at the expense of each and every one of you billions, billions, made by the busy hands of peasants! And you're lying to these peasants that you're going to take care of their future! You brought Azarov here, you killed thousands of people, you destroyed Ukraine! We would have prospered if it hadn't been for this disgrace called the Communist Party! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-04-m0.u262	People's deputies, we discussed Bill 2371. I would like to invite all of you, at 15 o’clock today, to have Parliament’s hearings on the subject, education, health care, and social welfare of children with disabilities, problems and ways to address them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to discuss tomorrow as much as possible the issues that, unfortunately, for the absence of an MP, we have not been able to vote with you tomorrow effectively, effectively, in a qualitative vote. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good luck. Good-bye.
