ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to take your seats, the Supreme Council continues its work. And I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system so we can see how many national MPs we have in this room. Please register. [[16:13:40]] There's 301 people's deputies in the hall. The Supreme Council can continue its work. Dear colleagues, as we have a difficult situation, I repeat, both in Donetsk and in Lugansk, there are consultations ahead of the round table, which is due to take place at 4:00 in the Supreme Council, I do not see all the faction leaders, but, in any event, I am addressing the faction leaders and the deputate groups to meet now in the Head of the Supreme Council. We'll take a 15-minute break so we can figure out the form of work in the hall today. Before we announce the break, I will inform you that an interfractional anti-crisis group has been formed. Ribakov’s national deputy, Igor Aleksandrovitch, was elected as the head of the interfractional association. The break is announced for 15 minutes, up to 16 hours 30 minutes. I would like to ask the heads of the MPs and factions to come to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down. Now the faction leaders and I have discussed the current issues. We agreed that Parliament would now continue its work. When I'm ready to go back to the questions that didn't get votes during the morning session, I'll do it as I please. There will now be a decree on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the deaths of people in Donetsk, Luhansk region, Odessa, Mariupol in particular. As soon as the project is ready, we will also consider this issue. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the Secretariat to make an announcement to have all the national MPs come into the hall. And you and I have the opportunity to consider the issues to which the national MPs insisted. This issue is raised in one block and is linked to local self - government, including the election organization in Kiev. I'll remind you, these are three draft laws: 1098, 4638, 4482. I'd like to ask your honors to take our seats. I don't see as long as I'm ready to make responsible decisions by voting. Now I give you my word. David Vážajevich, as chairman of the committee on this subject, did you wish to speak on these three laws or not? I'll give you my word, I'm ready to support you. Turn on the microphone, please. Zwania David Vajaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I would like to return to Bill 4835 on the organization of the President's elections. With all the factions, the law is being discussed, and I want to tell you that today is our last chance and the last day that we can vote for it, because it's going to be late. The bill provides for the possibility of holding safe elections, and I do not understand that there is no policy in these supplements, this is a completely technical law that allows law enforcement authorities where problems arise, to safely transport electoral documentation from the territorial commissions to the CWC, from the DTC to the CCW and to protect the territorial commissions. Period. So I ask you once again, there are votes in the room today, to return to this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Let's go before we go to other issues, let's go back to those problematic legislative acts that the Supreme Council needs to adopt, but which of the technical issues, I hope, have not received enough votes. Dear colleagues, this is Act No. 4835 concerning. These are changes to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, which the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, David Zwani, spoke about. It's about organizing the elections and protecting the results in these elections, once again. I think that everyone who is interested in honest, democratic, transparent elections should support this law. I ask you, Your Honor, that we now vote our return to this issue. Please, Your Honor. This is exactly the election block that we can go through right now. No.4835. Colleagues, please take your seats and support your return to this issue. — No. 4835. Please turn on the "Council" system and let's vote. Please be supportive. [[16:50:17]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 69, Impact – 27, Economic Development – 29, European Ukraine – 24, Freedom – 30, Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. Please turn on Andrew Cosemykin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u5	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to ask you once again to put to the vote the bill 4837, 4838. We've consulted with the leaders of groups and factions, and they support our proposal for, in fact, the introduction and moratorium on mid- and small-business controls and tax amnesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u6	This is a return to the issue of registration number 4837 and 4838. Yes, Andriy Anatolyovich? Yes. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the return to the consideration of these two legislative acts regarding their inclusion in the agenda. Let's support the return. At least stop. Stop. I'm taking the vote. We didn't include these questions with you in the agenda, as far as I can tell. We can just now vote to put them into the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of Bills 4837 and 4838. Please support and please vote. [[16:52:12]] For 212 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't see while the room is ready to vote. I'll be ready. I'm ready to meet you again. Dear colleagues, we return to the issues surrounding the elections in Kiev. This is a matter of registration number 1098: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the election of ARC Supreme Council deputies, local and rural, village heads, and the election of city heads for the majority of the majority system. So I'm going to remind you, not just about Kiev, but about all the cities, where there are over 200,000 voters. And two alternative laws: 4638, 4482, which refer to the appointment of the Head of the Kiev City Council, the Kiev City Head, as head of the Kiev Administration. Please, Your Honor, three of these projects: 1098, 4638, 4482 -- so that we can look at them, I ask you to support the vote in return to this question. Please, Your Honor, vote back on these three legislative acts. Please vote. [[16:53:54]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 3, Fatherland – 76, 1 - Impact, Economic Development – 15, 4 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 29 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 17. Dear colleagues, there's no way we're going back to that question. So, dear colleagues, let us turn to the first reading of the questions. Please, Your Honor, prepare a report on two alternative laws: 4404, 4404-1. These are draft laws amending certain legislative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I don't know, here's an offer-- one law at a time to vote without voting for the package. Well, there's not a lot of chance, I honestly want to tell you. I can. Turn on the microphone of the Shufrich People's Deputy. I can go meet you, but I don't see a chance to vote on these laws. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u8	Dear coalition, do you have a conscience? How many kyans are you going to cheat? You promised China and bicuriality, and you united positions. This is the city where Majdan stood for you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u9	See, there's no words.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u10	Do you not have tolerance and responsibility?Oh, my God! Do you wait for who will be where and what position to share?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u11	Nestor Ivanovich, make an offer, please. It's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! I think you owe the Chinese this vote. I ask you, Alexander Valentine's Day, to submit each bill separately. And let the Chinese see how the political forces that have come to power have been counted with their interests. That's the first one. And the second. In the end, tell people the truth, which President, and what term do you choose? Someone's been identified, I can tell. And, you know, you say there, the Party of Regions, the SDPU is 0. Today, the whole country's leadership, the active and the future, is in line with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u13	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Proposal by law. We'll listen to you later. Dear colleagues, colleagues, please, Nestor Ivanovich! The suggestion was to return to the laws by voting them, not by a pack, but by one. Dear colleagues, we're going to waste more time talking. Let the vote show everything. I'm going to ask one question at a time about going back to these issues. Right after that. 1098: Elections of deputies to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads Please, Your Honor, I am voting on the return to this issue. Please vote. [[16:57:10]] For-147 The decision is not taken. I came back to clean the experiment. At least it's clear there's no way. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, 73 – Fatherland, Klicka – 0, Economic Development – 20, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, Freedom – 29.0 – Company, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a draft law, a return to the debate on question 4638: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (as far as enabling the city of Kiev to have a real impact on the development of the city). Please, 4638, please vote. Who's "for," please go back to that question, back up. [[16:58:01]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 41, Parenthood 45, Impact 1, Economic Development 13, Sovereign European Ukraine 16, 29 Freedom, Company 0, non-fractional 23. And the last project in this package is the 4472 draft Order on Change to the Supreme Council Order on Change. Oh, no, stop, that's another question. Dear colleagues, the two laws are not supported by the Supreme Council, I will no longer put them to the vote. The only question we have is debt. I missed him once. This is a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the change and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Barwinkow (this is in this block) The Barbinkov district of Kharkiv." Remember, we have just run out of time, and we have not been able to vote on this law. I don't think he's politically colored, and I hope everyone supports him. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the return to the consideration of this decision on boundary change. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[16:59:25]] For 172 I don't understand the impact faction. The factions, please. Region Party – 2, 68 – Fatherland, 1 – Impact, 25 – Economic Development, 23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 29 – Freedom, 24 – non-fractional. So setting the barwinkova boundaries for us is a political issue, and we don't support it. I'm telling you, colleagues, I don't understand. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Zuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Obviously, most national deputies do not want to hold the election of the Kiev City Head in two rounds. That's a fact. And the second. They do not want to reconcile the positions of head of the Kyiv city administration and the elected mayor. And that's also a fact. Therefore, there is no point today to go back to these bills: they do not get the necessary number of votes. Let us save time and come to the consideration of those bills that Ukraine is looking forward to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u15	Thanks for the offer. I support your offer, and we will not go back to that question. Dear colleagues, consider the matter. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko. I'll give Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u16	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, first of all, I'd like to say to some of you who have begun to worry about the Chinese: the Chinese have not once been able to promote this political power of the gourd. And you don't have to play now, tell me how good you've become, you're going to get another hunch. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union has consistently defended and supported unanimously in this sessional hall and the unification of the positions of the Kiev City Head and Head of Administration, and so we voted in favour of the election of the Kiev City Head in two rounds. It's the need for chimpanzees. You know, I personally have dozens of meetings in the capitals. And those who today do not support these decisions in this session hall are betraying their constituents. And that's why voters have to give them a proper assessment. Once again, however, sooner or later the Supreme Council will come to terms with the fact that Kiev must have a legitimate city head elected in two tours and that city heads and heads of administration will be united. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give you one minute to speak to the strike faction representative of the People's Deputy Agaphony. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u18	Natalia Agaphonova, impact faction. Alexander Valentinovich, I'd still like to ask you to follow the Rules. We should start by following the law, right out of this room. Well, let's see how many times we've voted for this. Now it's in a formulation that you'll never find in the Rules: "Back to the previously unsupported issue." Well, find me an article in the Rules. How much can these laws be tormented?Oh, my God! I want to make a point of noting that I did not support the Unification of Positions Act, which, according to Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klicka, was not supported by the Fatherland faction before, by the way, I want to make a point. And that's because these questions are not in line with the Rules. Respect the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u19	I've got the position. Please, Catherinechuk, National Deputy, ask for your word. And let's sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u20	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. I can hear our coalition partners today -- and I'm surprised, because, okay, if we don't once vote on a two-track system, systematically either they don't vote or they pull cards. I understand that the question of the city mayor is sensitive to the impact faction, and so they chose their strategy not to give the Chinese who deserve legitimate authority the opportunity to get it. I think the Chinese need to think about this approach. But respect for those who have brought you into power is also needed in respect of the implementation of Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to registration number 4404 and 4404-1 – this is a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the liability for violations of the legislation in the area of administrative services. Please welcome to the rostrum the author of the law of Svetlana Samueln. And let's, dear fellows, support us to address this issue in a simplified manner. No objections? I won't. Please support the proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:04:35]] For-164 Decision taken. Please consider the issue of an accelerated procedure. Svetlana Samueln, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u22	Draft 4404: Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of responsibility for violations of administrative services legislation. We've talked about this a lot. In a few words, we can say that we want to strengthen the responsibility of those who do not provide services in a timely manner when they are approached. Strengthen responsibility, first. Secondly, it is possible for employers to fire those who have repeatedly violated administrative services legislation over the course of the year. In fact, that's the main theme of these changes, they're, well, I think they're very important today and they're very mature a long time ago. You have a project, that's why. We have comments from our expert board, and we propose to consider the bill and adopt it on first reading in order to finalize these comments and amendments to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u23	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, with an alternative law that regulates the same problems, the government came forward. I invite you to report on this issue to the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Maksutou Anatoly Arkadyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u24	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Today, in the provision of administrative services to citizens and landowners, there has been a violation of legislation by officials of public authorities and local authorities. The most common of these are the proliferation of service periods, the requirement of additional, unforeseeable, payments, refusal to provide services for reasons not provided by legislation. In order to remedy these and other violations, a bill has been drafted by the government. He envisages identifying the list of administrative offences in this area, establishing administrative responsibility for these violations for officials of the authorities providing such services, and for administrators of the administrative services centres; establishing requirements for the release of officials of the authorities providing administrative services and the administrators of the centres in the event of a re-enactment during the year of their infringement of administrative services. The adoption of the law will reduce the risk of corruption by civil servants and officials of local self - government authorities in providing administrative services to citizens and entrepreneurs. The government's bill, it's actually a previous bill, it's a similar bill to the government, it's just a bill of government that takes into account some of the legislative changes that have taken place over this period. And we're proposing to adopt the government bill, and we're going to adopt it on the first reading, and then we're going to work with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for this statement: 2 for, 2 against. Before we sign up, let us hear another report from the head of the profile committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u26	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Administrative Services (number 4404 and number 4404-1), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Both bills propose to establish the responsibility of officials of state authorities and local self - government authorities for violating legislation governing the provision of administrative services. Having examined the bill, the committee considers it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft Ukrainian Law No. 4404-1, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since it makes the amendments proposed in article 255 of the Administrative Procedural Code more legally. Accordingly, the Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the liability for violations of legislation in the area of the provision of administrative services No. 4404 should be rejected. This is a committee decision, so please support 4404-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u27	I understand the position of the committee. Dear colleagues, 2 for, 2 for against. Let's sign up for the performance. The word is given to the representative of the faction of the Party of the region of Dobrenkov, please the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u28	Alexander Doubenkov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Our faction sees as the most well - founded and most elaborate bill proposed by Tihypak and Fabricant (4404), which, inter alia, introduces administrative responsibility for violating law enforcement requirements by officials. That's why we think it's most appropriate to support Bill 4404. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u29	I've got the position. Please, People's Deputy Mirni, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u30	Please give the floor to the deputy head of the faction Alexia Petrovich Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u31	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Kydi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u32	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, Freedom has always consistently advocated that, not at the expense of the state, but, in fact, at the expense of those who have committed violations of legislation, and that compensation should be paid to the citizens of Ukraine. And in fact, in our National Constitution project, according to the Ukrainian Protection Program, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, we have these standards. And there is even a rule when a judge who unlawfully passed a decision suffered the loss of a Ukrainian citizen who was obliged to pay for his property. That's why we're going to support it, but we're going to support Bill 4404/1 as the most optimal one that's considered, which is justified, and we're actually going to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The word is given to the national deputy, Zurabski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! Project 4404 takes effect from the day we publish it if we vote for it. And the alternative, 4404 with badge 1, of January 1, 2015. Project 4404 introduces a new article under 188-43 instead of a previously excluded article. And Project 4404 with badge number 1 is a new article with identical content number 188-44, which is more correct in terms of standardization. Project 4404-1 (with badge one) additionally introduces responsibility for labour legislation in the form of the termination of a contract in the event of a re-infringement by an official of the law. We urge MPs to support Bill 4404-1: it does put obstacles to the corruption of officials. This will reduce the percentage of corruption in providing administrative services to business representatives and just private citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u35	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! In principle, one bill and another should be supported because they refer to a very important subject. I do not agree that the previous speakers have focused on the fact that these are corruption in the activities of officials of the authorities and local self - government. This may be related to the fact that this service is not provided in due time, the provision of this service, and so forth. In general, it seems to me that the question needs to be asked wider. Why? Because it's not the welfare of the state -- the provision of administrative services -- that's one of the main functions of the state. And that's why I want to ask a broader question, namely, about the price for administrative services, about the cost of administrative services. This issue should be reviewed in terms of reduction, for citizens still pay taxes to the state. In general, the bill is correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u37	Thank you. Please give the national deputy Yavorowski one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, strangely enough, even if we accept this law, it should have been passed long ago. Because in fact all the officials we have, we hire them. Because of the obvious need for them in one way or another, they need to be controlled. We, by the way, national MPs have also come to terms with what not even the first ones answer, but the officials usually do. The signature is, of course, there's either a minister or a deputy, but we know that these letters, answers to even parliamentary requests, are prepared by "sir" officials who are acting according to their standards, according to their medications long ago ready. Because of that, of course, this bill is a little bit, and I'm sure it won't solve the final problems, but at least it'll do a little bit of work for our officials who give people administrative services. We're going to vote, "Fatherland," for this bill. It must be accepted. And we're going to vote in favour of the bill with badge 1 that the government has prepared, it's more accurate, it's more pedantic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to comment on the matter, were given this opportunity. I'm putting in order for legislation to come and register the first draft of Law No.4404. Please make up your mind. We vote for the basis in the first reading of these laws. Please identify yourself to the Supreme Council for support of this project No.4404. Please turn on the "Council" system and vote. [[17:16:30.]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Now we're putting to the vote draft Law No.4404-1, which was supported by both the profile committee and many speakers. Dear colleagues, please determine how to vote for support on the basis of the project (registration number 4404-1). Please vote. [[17:17:06]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 69 – Fatherland, Impact – 22, 23 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 29 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 23. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Draft Law on Amendments to paragraph 15 of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Land Code (for the prevention of shadow trade in agricultural land). Please be the deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sabi Igor Mihajlovich. Please, Igor Mikhailovich, please come to the rostrum. While Igor Mikhailovich is coming along, please support the simplified procedure for addressing this issue. Vote please, Your Honor. For a short-term procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:18:18]] For-162 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u40	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 25 March 2014, the Committee considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to paragraph 15 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the Ukrainian Land Code (to prevent the shadow trade in agricultural land) (registration No. 2526-a) from 04.07 2014, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Valeria Cherniakov and myself. The bill proposes to clarify the list of contracts entered into during the sale ban, or other ways of alienating land and land particles, pies that are declared invalid from the time they are made, a certificate in the area of land secession. A list of these agreements is proposed to include previous agreements in the form established for the main contract for the alienation of agricultural land. What does that mean? Many land renters are forcing people to sign contracts immediately for the first - priority land repurchase or, in fact, an agreement to buy land with the deadline for its entry into force. We believe that this is the hidden market of the earth, and we believe that such agreements are automatically, according to this law, considered to be not valid. The Committee agrees with the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be finalized and that it is proposed to amend paragraph 3 (b) of paragraph 15. Agreements, including previous contracts, made pursuant to article 635 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, trusts made during the sale ban, or other ways of alienating land and land portions of the rations defined in points (a) and (b) of this paragraph in part of their sale and other way of estrangement, and also in part in the transfer of rights to alienate these land areas and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u41	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u42	the future is invalid from the moment they're certified, made up. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft Law amending paragraph 15 of the Land Code on the Prevention of Shadow Trade in Agricultural Lands be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention. And I would like you to support this bill so that we can stop the shadowy circulation of land and the hidden trade in land. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have heard a report with you. We have the opportunity to discuss this. Please register with the National Deputies to discuss this matter. Turn on the "Race" system. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Vaszczuk to Catherine Timofievni, the Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, the bill now introduced by the reporter has a high purpose. It's somewhat legal, perhaps not so correct, but it's a very correct idea. Today or not, Ukraine’s largest wealth is its land. And unlike privatization for those property certificates that we have gotten rid of in the state of most of the national wealth in the form of industrial enterprises, factories, factories and so on, we have no right to allow the thoughtless dissipation of the greatest wealth that is eternal. Because the factory is morally aging for decades, and the earth is the nation’s eternal breadwinner, and in addition, it is a territory. Until there is absolutely clear legislation, until there is a competitive ability to participate in the land market of simple glibrous peasants, we have no right to include the land market in Ukraine. So I would like to propose this bill in the first reading to support it. For the second reading, make all necessary adjustments so that it is clearly in line with the requirements of the Land Code and other laws governing land relations in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u45	Thank you for the very constructive offer. Please give the word to Philippenk, the National Deputy, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Vladimir Filipenko, Economic Development, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, the Economic Development Group will support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. Why? Because, indeed, the initiative of the author of this bill is well proposed. In fact, today, individual plots are making fictitious sales contracts with a temporary, so to speak, condition: until the end of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. What, then, if we continue the moratorium for another year or two or three? Who will thus be protected by this covenant? Who gave up their land and actually got rid of it? Is it the person who actually rips off such land and then trades it? Again, in this case, it's not only about protecting those who now own the land, but also those renters who use these land in good faith have leases a few years ahead. In fact, this bill is called upon to protect them in the same way. So we ask all the colleagues who are in this room. I know there are more than 226 deputies. I think this is the kind of bill around which we should unite, which should be supported in the first reading. I very much ask all my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u47	Thank you. The word is given to the People's Deputy Marcinkov, the "Freedom" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u48	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u49	Please, Alexander Mirny is going to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u50	Thank you. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, I repeat, we must forget about the presidential election. We must forget that we want to share power very much. We still have to go back to those bills that allow society to live every day. And this bill is one of the things that makes life easier in this case for people who live and work in rural areas. It's on one side. On the other hand, we practically never protected those who did not have access to power. And this bill is going to do just as well. performs this function, this function of protection, this function of appeal to power. And it's in this case that the authorities are starting to look like a protector, that is, they're starting to do directly the functions that are set out in the ideals of state building. So we have to support this bill, whether we like it or not. And it seems to me that Communists who keep saying that they protect the common people should also support this bill by rejecting things. Because the Communists don't vote, there's no office, they don't vote that the office was burned down, they don't vote for anything else. It's not like they're voting May 1st, it's not like the rain's gone. So let's take a look together at what's going on with you guys in the country, and together let's show you how to take care of people. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union as a state faction will support this bill and ask, indeed, for people's sake, we are willing to ask for this bill, not to demand the support of the House. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to discuss the matter. I'm asking you to sit in your workplace right now and figure out how to support this project. I am voting on the proposal to adopt Law 2526a: to amend paragraph 15 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the Earth Code (to prevent the shadow trade in agricultural land) as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed with the vote. Based on the base. Please vote. [[17:28:28]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1.57 – Fatherland, Impact – 1.14 – Economic Development, 20 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 27.0 – Company, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, as I promised, during the Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies and factions that we can now accept with you the Order, I hereby announce the title: "On the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate the deaths of citizens in the cities of Odessa, Mariupoli and other cities of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the chairman of this interim commission of inquiry, is invited to elect the national deputy Kisse Anton Ivanovich, his deputy national deputy, Merikov Vadim Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, can we vote on this project? We can. 150 votes. I think we have enough to make a decision. Dear colleagues, in order for national MPs to find out in detail the position on the activities of terrorist groups regarding other problems resulting from the loss of lives, there is also a proposal to create a temporary commission of inquiry. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this issue without discussion? We can. We're supposed to put him in the day-to-day, right? They should. You don't need a moment? Temporarily not included, I'm being tipped off by experts in the Rules. So we can vote on it right now. Please, Your Honor, this is a project with a registration number. Again? Dear colleagues, I think that after the vote the group will come up - and everyone will make the name of those groups that are. No objections? I won't. We're going to specify those names so we can get out of the voice now. I'd like you to turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u52	It's okay, isn't it? The thing is, a week ago, after the tragic events in Odessa, all the Odessa people's deputies, without exception, all the factions were sent a letter to you and there was an initiative to create an investigation team directly on the Odessa events. These are different situations: Mariupol and Odessa. And Odessa wants the truth. For some reason, this commission is not only not put into the hall, but is not being considered today. Therefore, my proposal is that we consider a separate commission on Odessa. If that was not possible, a number of deputies who applied to the Odessa Commission would then have to enter into that common.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been discussing issues on the Conciliation Council to create two separate commissions, but factions leaders have supported that one commission will address all these issues. So let's make proposals for non-fractional MPs, I mean, in the working order we'll look at when we create by quota, I think proportional, and non-fractional we'll also do, we'll take account of Odessy who want to work on the commission and are non-fractional. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the vote by draft Decree 4852 on the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please vote. [[17:32:44]] For 263 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, and once we've moved away from the procedure, from the order of the day, more faithfully, we have the committee's head of concern, like all of us, for future presidential elections. And when the impact faction, I'm the only one addressing the impact faction, it doesn't deny that we're going to vote on this issue for the fourth time today. Do you mind? You see, somehow you're differentiated in your approach to the question. This is number 4835. Dear colleagues, once again David Vážajevich reminds us that this issue relates to the election of the President, a very important issue. Colleagues, I think there's going to be an opportunity. Let's have a vote, colleagues. At least a hundred times I can put you to a vote so you can vote effectively. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal: All together, support the first return. Oh, no, it's a day-to-day inclusion. You don't have to go back. It's a day-to-day inclusion. Put it in the order of the day of our session. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine whether this matter will be included in the agenda. 4835 please vote. [[17:34:19]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, I will not ask this question again today. Region Party - 1, 60 - Fatherland, 23 - Impact, 22 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 24, 28 - Freedom, 0 - Company, 32 - non-fractional. Dear colleagues, we continue to work. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to say that we can do anything, but that we have a voice of support. Not included in the agenda, how can we consider it? Dear colleagues, come on. The proposals will be during the report. We now have two related projects that actually regulate one area of activity, but each requires a vote. This is Project 2198, 2347a. The first is a bill amending the laws of Ukraine. What? I'm going to sound for the transcript that faction leaders will specify the composition of the commission, the representatives to this commission from their factions. So, honourable colleagues, so that we don't waste our time right now, I've given the faction leaders an order to give the exact composition of the committees. I don't deny it. Dear colleagues! Once again, we begin our consideration of question 2198: the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens and on the State Land cadastre (for the State Registration of Property Rights to Land Areas formed by Division and Merger). And it relates to this issue, but it also needs a separate vote: the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the State registration of immovable property rights and their loads, and on the State Land cadastre (as regards the characteristics of the registration of immovable property rights that arose in the order of inheritance). There is a suggestion, fellow believers, that we should hear the report together from both the first and the second laws and then vote separately. Ladies and gentlemen, before this issue is discussed, please support the proposal for a shorter procedure for discussing these two projects. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:37:03]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! You're something. Colleagues, please, we won't be able to consider any other questions. Let's focus now. I once again put to the vote the proposal for a reduced procedure for considering these two draft laws. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:37:36]] For 158. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please do not lose your alertness at the end of the day: we work in an orderly and efficient manner. I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Omelyanović Denis Sergiyovich. Please. Is there a lawmaker? None. Please, from the committee, National MP Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 3 April 2013, considered Bill 2198, which deals with amendments to the Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, and on State Land cadastre (for the implementation of the State Register of Property Rights to Land Areas formed as a result of division and unification). Indeed, this bill deals with a rather narrow issue, such a point of settlement of a problem that has arisen due to the need for a longer and burdensome process of registering ownership if it arises as a result of the division or consolidation of land. The bill is designed to simplify this issue, to make it one step, that is, the purpose of the bill is certainly positive. The committee considered the observation of the Scientific and Expert Office, which, nevertheless, considers it necessary to bring the bill back to work in view of the technical problems and possible narrowing of rights. However, we believe that these problems can be corrected to the second reading. Therefore, the committee adopted the decision on the basis of the adoption of the bill with appropriate further development for the second reading. As far as Bill 2347 is concerned. The bill was considered on November 6, 2013. I mean, as you can see, a long time ago. And the Committee on Economic Policy points out that this bill deals with a rather painful issue for Ukraine today. It's a matter of simplifying the registration, of the characteristics of the property registration, of the real estate that arose in the order of inheritance. It applies to cases where, especially in the village, elderly people do not engage in such activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u56	do not engage in all of the rather burdensome procedures to register their land or their ownership of the house, especially if this house is old and so on and so forth. As a result, when they die, it's difficult to inherit this property, because we don't have a procedure like registering property rights for inherited property if this property hasn't been registered before. So today we have a real problem -- the rights don't come true. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to adopt this bill. We support his approval on the basis. Science and expertise, the government made some comments, but we think they might be. Well, actually, it was taken when we were working on the second reading. But the social problem is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u57	Thank you. So there is Law No. 2198 and Law No. 2347. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for these two bills. Please. The word is given to the People's Deputy Kaidi, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u58	Please give the floor to Deputy Alexi Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u59	Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Alexi Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u60	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, the law is very necessary and very appropriate, and we will definitely vote on the basis for adopting it. But it has to be worked out. It follows, for example, from the current edition of article 28.1 and from the fifth part of the first part of article 16 of this Law that the State cadastre registrar claims a person who is entitled to apply for State registration of the rights and their burdens on the land himself to apply for State registration. The proposed changes will limit the possibility of turning citizens and legal persons to cadastral registrar only in cases of land allocation. So we ask that these points be corrected so that there are no restrictions on other citizens. Yes, the bill must be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Dudenkov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! It's very nice when all the representatives -- all the factions, the MPs, the committee -- say very positive conclusions about the bill. Even more pleasant is the introduction of the bill by the representatives of our faction. I would like to point out that this bill really needs the support of representatives of all the MPs, groups, because it applies to ordinary Ukrainian citizens, citizens who, at least once in their lives, are in a situation of registering real estate rights during a lifetime. It should be noted that Bill 2198 deals directly with the issue of State registration of property rights in land areas formed by division and unification. This is the gap that was missing in the current edition of the Ukrainian Code of Land. As far as Bill 2347 is concerned, he is indeed solving a number of issues related to the inheritance of that immovable property that does not have a proper state registration according to the heir. And accordingly, the author of the bill proposes to have a national registration of property rights for those persons who have inherited the property without the national registration of the heir. These legislative initiatives will certainly simplify and accelerate the process of moving the property in question to legal persons who have inherited by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u63	Thank you. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u64	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I would like to stress right away, Alexander Valentine's Day, that when we vote, we don't forget one important fact: that these aren't two alternative bills -- these are two different bills that we both have to vote for: and the first is 2198, and the second is 2347. That is, both bills deserve support and indeed resolve a number of issues, which unfortunately today have gaps in current legislation, such as the introduction of rules, the application of property rights rules to land that are formed by division or unification. In fact, these bills are very much to be expected of us. And I'd like to ask, maybe, before we test the ability or willingness of our room to vote for these two bills, we'll have a signal vote first. If there is no result, perhaps such important bills are worth repeating the vote, the full vote tomorrow morning, so that these bills are not lost. Thank you. The strike faction will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. The only thing we need to do, colleagues, is not vote signals, not launch flares, but go to all the sessions, including the authors of laws that introduce legislation and are not even ready to report them. So, dear fellows, we need to identify ourselves now. I agree with the people's deputy Rosenk. And before the discussion began, he announced that these are laws that regulate one immediate issue, but these are two different laws. And the specifics in it, in each of these laws, are separate. And the individual positions that they regulate in the State Register of Property Rights and in the State Land Cadastre. Therefore, fellow believers, every law must be voted on separately. I'm asking everyone to come to the National Deputies Hall. Colleagues, I point out that these are not political issues. We have enough people in this room right now to make decisions. So, 2198 draft law. Please, Your Honor, at the invitation of a committee of profile to take the basis, i.e. in the first reading. I would like all the national MPs to support this proposal. Please vote. [[17:47:48]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 40, Parenthood (I would like a colleague to mobilize and work) 47, Impact 22, Economic Development 18, Sovereign European Ukraine 21, Freedom 27, Company 0, non-fractional 20. I would ask the faction leaders to organize the work of their MP factions and groups so that we do not fail in Parliament. Dear colleagues, the next draft of Law 2347a. This is a draft law amending the laws of Ukraine on the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens, and on the State Land cadastre on the characteristics of the registration of immovable property rights that arose in the order of inheritance. This is primarily about rural areas, about low - income citizens. Please support, Your Honor, 2347a on the basis of the committee's proposal. Please vote. [[17:49:05]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 42 - Party of Regions, 48 – Fatherland, Impact – 22, 21 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, 26 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. Dear colleagues, next question. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons (to make it impossible to register company acquisitions). Project of the People's Deputy Sold. Oksana Petrovna, please report this law to the rostrum. And I ask Parliament to support a simplified procedure for its consideration. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:50.]] For-146 No decision taken, my dear fellows. Shall we try it again? I'm asking you, dear fellows, let's not be able to consider the two questions that we have left. Please support a brief discussion of the matter. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[17:50:28]] For-152. Decision taken. Please, Oksano Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u66	Dear Valentina Alexandrovich. Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill is actually very simple and very correct. The issue is the protection of property rights. You and I have spent many years trying to regulate, simplify, and make business easier. And at one stage this simplification, which really didn't work, has led to the fact that today, when you register with the state registry, you can change the statutory fund, you can change the manager, and you can change the company's members, giving the administrator a copy of the founder's protocol. A copy not certified in any organization by a notary or even the initiator itself, which has resulted in a large number of abuses. For all of us, it wasn't a secret from the situation that was with TV last year. The reason for this was that documents were presented without verification to change the manager. It's not original, it's just a copy. It's not enough that they're changing owners in this way. Few people take property, even criminal cases on these facts do not lead to anything. Because when the applicant comes to the registrar and says that it's not my decision when an administrator comes to the police and says that these are the wrong documents, the police say that there's no document here, it's a copy, and we can't make any conclusions from the xerops. Dear colleagues, and those in the Economic Development sector and those in the Parenthood sector, I ask you very much: please listen to two words regarding the protection of the property rights of our enterprises with you. I ask you to support this bill as one that allows you to protect the owner. We suggest, not even the American method, when there is a mandatory presence either in the Notaryus or in the U.S.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u68	Taking into account the proposals of the Scientific and Expert Office to provide for mandatory submission for the registration of owners, change of owners, change of statutory funds and changes in the management of societies, enterprises must require a notary certified copy. Please support and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, from the committee of profile, head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Policy, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u70	The biggest disaster since corruption in Ukraine is raiding. It got so widespread that in every country of the world, they don't understand how you can open a business in a country that can just take away, and say, "Tell me thanks for giving you, for example, a million dollars when you put 20." As the head of the Enterprise, I can say that a lot of people have been asking me when business like, I'm even called, "weaned." But it wouldn't have been possible if we hadn't tried to push the documents. And so, with the need to adopt this bill, I ask you, Alexander Valentinovich, to send a letter to Kabmin so that the inter-ministerial commission will start working to review the applications for registration. We personally made 70 complaints. It's about the bill. It's very simple, but it's clear and necessary. Copies of documents cannot be changed to statutory documents or to registers of property. I mean, when, you know, always remember the anecdote that says, "Let's go in there and put our heads in there." And he says, "What if you do?" And he says, "What am I for?" And when you look at every document and you think, "That's not going to touch me, it's going to be to someone else.'--then you'll remember. If we don't make it possible for there to be no raiding in the country, then you can sleep in peace that your business will never take away any authority that does not come. Let's blow it cold. Thank you. We need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I take it there's a proposal for a foundation and in general, right, Alexander Volodymyrna? Let's still talk about this. Are there speakers? They're desirable. Signal, copy. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Two for, two against. Please, the People's Deputies of Doubenkov, the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u72	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Unfortunately, the author of the bill refers to other factions, but the faction of the Party of Regions is also not apart from the problem. We realize that unfortunately, one of the problems of our current business headquarters is that it's a negative phenomenon, like raiding. In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, the information that is subject to the entry into the Single State Register is reliable information. This information should therefore be as protected as possible. This information should be based on the most reliable and authentic documents. Of course, such a process, such as the use of the original documents, not the copies, not the notarized copies of documents, is a necessary and balanced step in the matter, perhaps if not the elimination of such a negative phenomenon, but its minimization, as a raid. Therefore, of course, we are proposing an extremely necessary bill on democratization, also a process of state registration, protection of the rights of legitimate owners, the bill must be supported on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u73	Thanks for the offer. Please, People's Deputy Mirni, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u74	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Clearly, this bill, like a number of other bills, needs to be supported. It is clear that Freedom will vote in favour of this bill. Clearly, all the thoughts presented in the bill are correct. We also have a lot of wishes, not observations, I would like to stress, Mrs. Oksana, but a wish for this bill to expand and complement it, and we are ready to make our proposals. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, judging from what's happening in this room right now, we see an urgent need, sorry, for the dismissal of the Supreme Council, because nothing votes. [[Applause]] Everything's falling apart! Nobody needs anything. One of them is afraid. Now, look, examples of what are skin interests -- 260 votes. When it comes to the interests of the state or society, 150 votes, 160 votes, 170 votes. And unfortunately, we see that the fate of this bill is exactly the same. We're going to put it up now, it's going to be 150-170 votes and that's it. And good, perfectly normal bills we make. Not enough, we won't even be able to get him back to re-reading. So, respectable societies, honourable voters, honourable Ukrainians, finally, let's make decisions together: the election of the President, the immediate dissolution of Parliament and the elections of the new Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u75	Thank you for the constructive offer. National Deputy Kaplan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen. Kaplin, Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. In making this truly revolutionary decision, we today need to remember where it came from and who its author is. It was the criminal authorities of Yanukovich who produced this rule in the current legislation in order to create legal preconditions for wide and wide-ranging raiding. People were taken from businesses, people were taken from businesses, they had their hands twisted to registers, they were juggling these papers, and they were changing 2-3 owners in one day. The time will come, and each of them will be responsible for what was done to our country's medium and small business. However, I would like to ask you, Mr. Head, to move this vote to Thursday. Obviously there are no votes for such a decision today, and it is obvious that today it will be due to the absence of the national deputies of their work, it will not be accepted, and we will not be able to take this revolutionary, necessary step for taxpayers, for our country, to shape the economic power of our country a step. As for the parliamentary elections, I think the Ukrainian national deputies, at least part of them, who have the will, the firm political will, should help the people of Ukraine. Personally, after the presidential election, I will start a tour of Ukraine and gather people and invite them under Parliament's walls to help the parliament decide on their own divorce. This Parliament does not reflect the real mood of people, and from here we need a bad broom to drive tens of national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u77	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, our group will support this bill. We're against the raid, we're for improving the investment climate. That's understandable. And I would like to say about the proposals for the dissolution of parliament. Parliament today -- the Supreme Council -- is the only legitimate body, there is a majority, and we need to protect this body. If anyone thinks that when the Supreme Council is launched, more constructive forces will come here, you, your honors, are deeply mistaken. The radicals on the right and on the left will come to benefit from Ukraine, and they can actually bring its destruction. Step away from the rhetoric of the presidential campaign and engage in legislative activities. Now on the subject of this bill. My suggestion is either two days, or one day, where there is a full Chamber of Deputies and all MPs on the ground, and to vote for the necessary bills. It is clear that this bill, which we are considering today, is very necessary for Ukraine, but it will not get the required number of votes because there are no deputies. And that's what we've had so many times, we've had this practice: one day, four days, we've voted. Let's set aside two days -- and put to the vote the very bills that would support the MPs. Once again, the MP's Economic Development Group will support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There were proposals to support this project. I agree that we do not have the opportunity to vote today, although the law is important. The members of the strike faction suggest that I break the Rules and postpone the vote to the next day. I, my honourable colleagues, will take the blame and put the vote to the next day, so that we will still allow the country to fight backing and help in this important issue of the fight against raiding and force structures, and the Ministry of Justice, and so on. So, dear colleagues, we will be voting in favour of this issue in the next session. And today's session I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the Supreme Council will resume its work. Good-bye.
