ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I'm asking you to take your seats and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:11:02]] There are 364 deputies in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you some information. Today, about five o’clock in the morning, criminals in military camouflage with automatic weapons, grenades, and explosives seized Parliament’s and the Cabinet of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I gave a mandate to strong structures to take all measures to protect citizens, punish criminals according to the current legislation of Ukraine and deblock buildings. I'm calling on all Ukrainian citizens to keep calm, I'm addressing all the patriots of Ukraine to protect administrative buildings from provocations and extremists. Any attempt by anyone, I emphasize, to capture any administrative building in Ukraine: in the West and in the East, in the Centre, in the South and the North -- will be regarded as an appropriate crime against the Ukrainian State, with all the consequences. I would like to refer to the leadership of the Russian Federation for the maintenance of the basic treaties of the Russian military presence in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, as well as for the non-compliance of Ukrainian military personnel with the laws of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. I'm addressing the military leaders of the Russian Black Sea fleet, which is based on the territory of Ukraine, which is required, all military personnel should be within the territories that are defined by the signed agreement. Any movement of the military, but with weapons, outside this territory, we will be regarded as military aggression. In order for Ukraine's enemies not to try to shake things up, the people's honourable people, the people of Ukraine, to avoid becoming engrossed in our independence, sovereignty and territory, we must proceed immediately today to form a government. The government, which must ensure Ukraine’s security, the functioning of all state authorities, restore the rule of law and the rule of law. I appeal to the Ukrainian people's deputies with a demand -- today Parliament will not complete its work until the government is formed. I thank the Ukrainian patriots who have come under the walls of Parliament to protect Parliament on these responsible days from any provocation and extremists, for those who want to destabilize the situation and not let the government form. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to Ukraine. The Ukrainian State will be able to protect its sovereignty, independence, and integrity. Dear colleagues, in order for us to be able to work effectively, now the faction leaders are completing consultations, I hope, in the near future. We will be informed about the creation of a new parliamentary majority and will make a proposal for the Prime Minister and members of the government. I ask you to consider the laws of the daily order by a reduced procedure, so that we can do everything with you, and this is primarily about the laws that apply to the restoration of powers under the Constitution of the Cabinet of Ministers, the local administrations, so that we can look at them as a reduced procedure, organized, fast, effective decision-making. Dear people's deputies, please, there is an offer to give word to factions from each faction. Please sign up. As long as it's not breaking tradition, I'd like to inform my distinguished colleague that we have today the birthday of the national deputy, Kayda Alexi Petrovich and Smitzhuh Grigori Evdomimovich. [[Applause]] Please, from the faction of the Party of Regions, who will be speaking? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Crimea has always been a complex region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u3	I'm asking you to calm down with the Supreme Council!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u4	Crimea always and the Crimeans respected Ukraine's sovereignty. They have always stood on the watch for the implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. But at this difficult time, at a difficult time when the situation is extremely complex, the following is happening. The Supreme Council, ours with you, rudely, ruthlessly contradicting the interests of the Crimeans, and regardless of them, is passing laws that have literally blown up the entire peninsula. It's also the Russian Language Abolition Act, it's the Law, it's the Law on the Elections of the Supreme Council of Crimea, it's the Law on the Heroes of "Berkut" and so on. It can't be like that! The interests of everyone living in the West, in the South, in the East must be respected. And there's the same people! The same ones who have the same interests and will not be able to disprove the interests of people so harshly. That is why, of course, I am addressing criminals today. We need to stop! The main thing is to avoid bloodshed. As respectable politicians, we must weigh every word and not give thanks to those who are at the door of parliament and shame those who have opinions there in the South. People are the same everywhere and have the same right. And we're responsible for what's going on in Crimea. No human life, our children's lives are worth yours and our political ambitions!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! The Supreme Council stands ready to defend the interests of all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of where they live, what language they speak. These are our constitutional obligations. The word is given to the representative of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Illenko. Oleg Pullibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u6	Honorable Society, Honorable Colleagues, Residents of the Ukrainian State! And first of all, I want to address the people of the Crimean Peninsula. Today, those provocations are being tried and the pressure of the situation is to provoke Ukrainians throughout the country. In Crimea, they're starting to spread completely false rumors about what appears to be a gang car that is now going to Crimea to kill people in order to destabilize the situation. An information war is waged against Ukraine. It's only worth including any news from the Russian channels, and we see how lying and false what is being done in Kiev and what is being done in all the regions of Ukraine. Moscow’s position is clear: The Kremlin is now interested in destroying Ukraine’s territorial integrity. What should we do? First of all, we need to calm down all the inhabitants of our nation. We need to calm the people of the Crimean Peninsula. No one's going to deny your rights. No one is going to take away your rights under Ukrainian legislation and the Constitution. No one is going to dictate to you what language to speak. There is a Ukrainian language, a national language, and in life everyone communicates in the language that he thinks is necessary. No one in Ukraine will demean religious rights, no one will demean educational rights, no one will demean the rights of national minorities. We are a European civilised state. And now we think that we all need to get side by side in the struggle for our nation. We have to save our country. While the economic situation in Ukraine is simply catastrophic. The treasury after Yanukovich mode is empty, empty. The National Bank's reserves don't match the level that they should be. To date, all the opportunities that we should have to continue to implement economic and social policies in our country are being stolen. That's where we are. Plus, provocations from Moscow. Why hang the flags of the Russian Federation? You can't do that. We need to be the only ones now, we need to move in the same direction, and we need to save Ukraine's territorial integrity now. We have the Budapest Guarantee Memorandum: the United States, Britain, the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation violated that memorandum. We need to officially address those countries in order to preserve the territorial, economic, political integrity of the Ukrainian State. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u7	I'm going to the secretariat. In case there's no microphone on the street, please turn it on. The word is given to a representative of the MP's Economic Development Group. Who will act? People's deputy Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to address all Ukrainian citizens now. Dear Ukrainians, brothers and sisters, today our revolution, our Midan comes with no less trials than it was February 22, February 20, when our brothers were killed. Today, if we allow anarchy, a brothel, banditry in Ukraine, it's only in the hands of our enemies. They sleep and see, they sweep our country, they sleep and they see, they split it into parts. That's why I'm addressing all the Ukrainians, the millions of people that we've been with on the field with you, and we're still standing here today, and we're not taking a step back. I am addressing you, good people, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the only legitimate authority in Ukraine and it has now, I stress, to work. We don't have a President, because coward Yanukovic, as a deserter, has fled. If we don't have the Supreme Council yet, we don't have any authority in Ukraine. I know that most of you and I don't like the composition of today's Supreme Council. Because those who went to this Supreme Council are not the kind of people Ukrainian citizens want. But the Lord has made it possible for us to be in the same room today in order to save the country. So I ask the Ukrainians to calm down once. No one will take the Supreme Council. He's not going to the Supreme Council. Those who encourage the brothers of the Supreme Council should bear in mind that they work for Yanukovich. Because if the Supreme Council falls, Janukovic will come back here on a white horse. Can you hear me, hotheads? Who wants to take the Supreme Council? Next. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council. Alexander Valentine's Day, with all the power vested in you, immediately the harshest of measures against separatists and splinters, to arrest you here in Kiev. Next. I believe that the first issues to be considered in Parliament, apart from the formation of a government of national trust, are the removal of parliamentary integrity, the elimination of the benefits of deputies, that is what unites the entire Ukrainian people from Crimea to the West. And I'm addressing Ukrainian citizens. When the Supreme Council executes its historic mission, when we stabilize the situation in Ukraine, when we organize and hold the President's election, when we stop that bard, that vacchanal, that chasm created by the Party of Regions, then we make a decision -- and the Supreme Council goes to the next term's election. There's no other way. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u9	The word is given to the People’s Deputy of Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u10	The MP's Economic Development Group. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! It is of the most principle that, in conditions of unprecedented both socio-economic and political crisis, parliament, as well as the only working higher-level legislative authority in Ukraine today, has more than ever consolidated around issues of strategic national importance. The crisis has essentially gone beyond national security and directly affects Ukraine’s territorial integrity and statehood. We need to have a warm heart and a cold head now more than ever. Clearly, all actions aimed at increasing the risks of Ukraine's resistance and integrity are classified as anti-State actions that conflict with both the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. Please reject all interpersonal, political, competitive ambitions. Today, more than ever, a system of government needs to be restored. To create a model of the Constitution in 2004 as required by the parliamentary-presidential state system, the coalition, the majority in Parliament. Today is not the time to engage in opposition schemes. Today it is necessary to consolidate efforts, to legally establish a coalition. In doing so, I stress that the MP's "Economic Development" group, emerging from the deep gap in which our country is located, including tragic events in connection with the loss of people, does not claim to be in office. We call for the unification of efforts and the restoration of the government system in Ukraine, the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, including. First of all, for the purpose of ensuring that, in every direction, the rule of law, the security, the economy is clearly defined by responsible state officials. And our task, based on the interests of the Ukrainian State, of the Ukrainian people, is to do everything possible to move away from the threat of the financial gap -- the default -- to calm our citizens as much as possible in the context of protecting their rights, lives, property and restoring the state's viability. Because only a consolidated state can protect its national interests and ensure modern development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u11	The word is given to the People's Deputy Rosenko of the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Sergey Kunicin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u13	Please invite National Deputy Kunicina to the Supreme Council rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, honourable deputies! I'd like to take into account what is being done in Crimea right now, so that they can act calmly, I want to say in Russian. You know, tonight, I've been on the phone with Crimea all night. More than 120 armed men joined the Supreme Council of Crimea, the Government of Crimea. Professionally trained people, armed, carried automatic weapons, grenade launchers, machine guns. People who were trained, everyone knew what to do, weapons for a month of defense, disarmed security, and acted completely professionally. In this situation, I should like to say the following. We have portraits of the kids who died in Maidan, and we have to warn those who are trying to shed blood in Ukraine and in Crimea that we will not allow bloodshed. That's the first one. Second. Alexander Valentinović, I address you as the Supreme Commander. We must appoint the Minister of Defence and Chief of General Staff of Ukraine immediately today. Because the Ukrainian army is beheaded. I worked as Governor of Sevastopol with the commander of the Ukrainian Navy, Admiral Tenuh, and I believe that this person is capable of solving the tasks of a professionally trained person. We must set up a working group from the factions of all Crimea and take certain action before we leave for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and begin work on stabilizing the situation. We must appeal to the State Duma of the Russian Federation to ensure interaction in order to avoid bloodshed in the Crimea. And I wanted to thank the Crimean Tatars from this rostrum, who, in fact, saved the state and the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea yesterday and stood by Ukraine. But today we must do everything we can to prevent possible bloodshed, and it is possible in the Crimea, because the situation is extremely difficult. And I can't tell you what's going on there. That is why I think we need to take concrete action on the Ministry of Defence on the Crimea right now. Otherwise, the delay of death is similar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u15	The word is given to the representative of the "Fatherland" faction. Who will act? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the phrase here is, "People are the same." Undoubtedly, humans are the same, only rulers are different. When these days in Donetskina and Lvivščina, in Ivano-Frankish and in Kyivska, there are hundreds of people who have been ordered by criminal Yanukovic and his environment, I think we all understand that people are the same. Similarly, when these days are guarded by those soldiers who have been shot by one sniper from a single point of view along with those who are being guarded in these areas. And that's why we need to draw conclusions from that. People are the same. When Janukovitch, Zacharychenka, Klimenka, Pshonka, and the people in Crimea and Kiev are discovered today, Zakarpatta sees the luxury, the multimillion-dollar luxury that they stole from our budget with you. And people don't care where they live, either in Crimea or in Central Ukraine or in Western Ukraine. One thing they don’t care about is how the criminals who stole the government budget and made their own food out of this budget will be punished. People are the same! But they're not the same in the other way -- in the perception of everything that's going on in the country. That's why we now have one key task, and the sooner we solve it and solve it today, when we assign a legitimate government, we form a legitimate coalition, and this government, whether you're in this government or not, starts to set up a state order, that's the only legitimate way to get back into the legislative order. We've made all of you together, regardless of factional affiliation, the first step -- we've deprived any person of the right to declare himself dictator of the future, we've returned the Constitution, which makes it impossible. We need to take the next step: a government must be formed immediately. For the first time in five years, a government must be formed to provide a programme of activities. We must approve this program of government activity, personally approve each minister and from now on restore the rule of law in the country. As far as the situation in Crimea is concerned. The only way that we can solve this situation is for all of us to understand: it is an urgent order and reform in both the military and economic spheres. Every citizen, wherever he lives, must understand that the country has begun to restore law and order and justice. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u17	The word is given to the national deputy Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u18	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Our political power -- both the faction and the party -- is absolutely in favour of those sobering politicians and leaders of the state who are calling for the rule of law to finally prevail in the state. And let's come to a conclusion. If we are, in fact, independent of who has the programming principles, who has the political views, regardless of who has the sympathy or the antipathy, if we all agree as one that we should only act within the Constitution, if we agree and adopt a firm rule that in any part of our country any political power, any citizen of 45 million people in Ukraine will follow only one rule: to act within the framework of the law -- only then will we do the primary task of our own and our mission -- to save the integrity of the state. So once and for all, let's all act within the limits of the law. And I would very much ask those political forces that today are suppressing anticommunism to listen to that too. Because the abuses and persecutions experienced by our party comrades do not go within any democratic framework and into European values, most of which are practiced in this room. Families are being persecuted, the Communists are being forced to leave the party in public, "you give up your views" and so on and so forth. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I received information from my hometown in Volina yesterday and would like to be heard. And they know very well that over the past 20 years that I represented them in the Supreme Council, I was involved in politics, politics, or in the problems of your constituency. Put your hand on the heart of those who hear me there, and tell me, who has built more schools, hospitals, cultural houses? Who have contributed more to solving other social problems? It was economic policy. Why do you now pursue those who helped me in this matter and make your life in God’s forgotten Polish land better? And such examples throughout Ukraine. Stop, please, because today our story, fortunately, does not end! Do not give a negative example so that there will ever be no feedback. We are wise to act within the framework of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u19	Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u20	Leo Mirimsky, non-fractional, Alliance party. I know the situation in Crimea more than anyone. The Alliance party in the Crimean Parliament has its own faction. And I want to tell you that yesterday the opposition that was, it's pointless. Because yesterday the Crimean Parliament wanted to resign the Crimea Government. Although it is not in fact the Crimean Government, it is the Government of Makeev-Donetsk and the Crimean people who wanted to resign the Government. They weren't allowed to do that. Now, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you a question. Why do you call armed takeovers of the administration a revolution in the Crimea a separatist coup? That's a first. Second. I want those patriots who love Ukraine to love both Lviv and Crimea and Donetsk and Zaporozhye. Because the same Ukrainian citizens are in Crimea. And they want peace and tranquillity. But the Crimeans want them to be considered. The Crimean Parliament of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Crimeans want to reconcile with the Crimea all the forces they appoint to the Crimea. And that's reasonable. Crimeans are outraged that Parliament has abolished the Language Act as one of the first laws, where regional languages have been abolished. I am grateful to the Lions and the Donans for their example of love. When they showed that the lions had spoken Russian, the Dutch spoke Ukrainian. A low gift and thank them for it. But I'm asking you, the Crimea can solve things peacefully. We need to talk to Crimea. Crimea wants to be heard. Crimea wants us to consider him. Therefore, remember that Crimea is an integral part of Ukraine, but they want them to be just like the rest of the territories. I therefore call, indeed, for tomorrow I will go to Crimea, and I call upon all Crimean deputies in the Ukrainian Parliament to go there. And I'm sure we'll find points of contact if the new power in Ukraine is heard by Crimea and Crimean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u21	Please, National Deputy Mishchenko, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. What we're discussing right now is very important. We need not really break the country apart and do everything we can to make peace and peace in our country. But where do we start? I'm talking to Alexander Valentinovich right now. You promised 25 numbers in this room that today's going to be an inheritance bill, that's what everyone's heard. Today, thousands of people have gathered in parliament to see this law under consideration today. I understand that in this time of time many people have been asked, which in the corruption schemes of this legacy are evaluators and notaries and so on. But it turns out, like in the movie "The Wedding in Malinovka": Reds came -- robbed, whites came -- robbed. But when we stop robbing! That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u24	So please, Alexander Valentine's Day, I will not leave this rostrum and call upon all the majors who support me, who, after this law is not passed today, can forget their districts, support me! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u25	I ask you, Mr. Mishchenko, given the situation in the country, not to provoke. And what I'm saying is that the profile committee has commented on a law that's not ready for adoption because it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u26	Ready! He's ready! The laws are ready!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u27	Alexander Yanukovich will inherit the Midianites! The oligarchs will inherit their possessions free of charge!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u28	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u29	I want to tell you, my dear colleagues, this law needs work. After further processing, we are ready to consider it, to look at it in the Supreme Council, in order to protect this law, not the economy of the oligarchs, to transfer property, but really the people who are defenseless today. So, Mr. Mishchenko, stop the provocation and take your seats. I'm asking for a lineup, strike faction, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, from our faction we turn to you with the following proposal. First. Instruct Parliament to form an urgent working group of representatives of all factions and MPs with the participation of experts from Crimea and OSCE experts in order to develop a new Language Act within a two-day period to guarantee the normal development of Russian and other languages of national minorities. This is very important today. And that would be a European law that we would adopt. And a second offer. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Mr. Head, we ask you to give the order to develop an urgent application to the leadership of the Russian Federation with respect to the territorial integrity of Ukraine and in this statement to emphasize that today Parliament is a legitimate body of power and we are making consolidated decisions that are now being voted upon by all deputies here. This is very important and, I think, it could, including calm the situation in Crimea. Dear colleagues, we really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider the proposal of the National Deputy Heratchenko and give an appropriate commission. I'm asking the MPs not to work against their own country. Questions about the legislative arrangement will be addressed today. And I'm giving you an assignment, Mr. Mishchenko, to the Committee of Profiles and the Legal Department of the Supreme Council to consider this issue and make an offer on its acceptance. Without this meeting, we will not make decisions that conflict with the Constitution and have ambiguous meanings, consequences. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to calm down, calm down, sit down. And now let's vote for the agenda. Comrades, you have an order of the day. Right now, I want a little comment on the agenda. As soon as the factions and the MPs give me information that they're ready to report to Parliament and the country on the creation of the majority and the formation of the government, we're going to start looking at this right now, regardless of the fact that it's set at the very end of the agenda. No objections? There's no objection. I'm asking you to vote for order, I'll give you a line, for order of the day. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[10:48:26]] For 322 Dear colleagues, "yes" to 322. Decision taken. And now we're starting to look at the agenda. I'd like to ask you and I to make a decision and consider all of the issues in a simplified procedure. No objections? There's no objection. So before we begin our consideration of Bill 4271, I ask that we consider this bill without discussion. Because I'll explain what the question is. Remember, when people approached Parliament and asked to release the prisoners, we made a decision with you, but this decision is not legally valid because it was quickly prepared and accepted. That is why Parliament’s lawyers and professional committees instead considered a law that would really ensure the application of amnesty in Ukraine to convicted political prisoners. So I ask that we now vote to accept this issue without discussion. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[10:49:50]] For 253 Decision taken. 253 votes. I invite you to the rostrum of the bill's author, Deputy Oleg Láška, so that you and I can determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko. Dear fellow national MPs! Because given the situation in Crimea, we need to take immediate action, I will not take your time. This is a bill relating to the once - amnesty of the political prisoners of the Yanukovic regime. Those whom we have released by our decree are already released. But the Penitentiary Service says that this ruling is not properly drafted, so the law is proposed. On this list: this is the brothers, the father and the son of Pavlíčnica, this is Vitaly Zaporezec, the so-called "wassilk terrorists," this is, at the suggestion of fellow MPs, the participants in the "Ukraine Without Kuchma" shares that were convicted of shares near Banking in 2001. That is, the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. Please vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, now. Please, MP Miroshnichenko with a motive. And Schweik's deputy. Deputy Agaphonov and Illenko. I've seen everyone. All right, please. We're working fast, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, today we have had a heated discussion on the subject of this law. Our position is that indeed those who have been condemned for political reasons should be rehabilitated. But there are 12 articles of the Criminal Code, which contain particularly serious crimes. And to the list of these crimes, there are a number of crimes involving rape, murder, and so forth. There is a proposal to adopt this bill as a basis and to list articles that will apply to people who will be rehabilitated. Then we can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I'll comment. It's not about the articles, it's about the specific names that the Henprosecutor's office has conducted, and it agrees that the investigation has been conducted in a biased and politically motivated manner. Please, the people's deputy of Schweik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u36	Igor Schwaika, U.S. Union of Freedom. Society, I propose, and now there's support under the walls of the Supreme Council. This list did not include an entirely politically motivated case of the so-called Palamars. These are the Sanhedrin boys of the 77th, 85th, 86th birthdays who were accused of a terrorist act, they're convicted, their relatives are now under the walls of the Supreme Council. I propose to include in the text of the act: Djomin Sergey Sergiyyovich, 1977; Haritonov Anton Viktorovich, 1985; and Fedorchenko Evgen Valeriyovich, 1986. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u37	I'll give you the opportunity to finish reading your last names. Agaphonov's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, the strike faction is once again addressing you so that we can end up talking about the revolutionary one and start testing for adequacy. Let's start on the legal side. We want these people to be really rehabilitated. And it's not like three months from now they're going to be reinstated according to the decision we've made here with you. Well, let's distinguish amnesty from pardon: amnesty is an act for a certain category of persons, pardon is an individualized action. And let us not mix sin with the righteous one. Amnesty is carried out by the Supreme Council. The President's pardon. Now, in carrying out an individual amnesty, in fact, pardon, the Supreme Council assumes the authority of the President. Let's do this. We understand that this is a political decision now, but there must be an act of pardon in the event that the President is elected, the lawfully elected President, he has to perform an act of clemency for these persons. And let's understand that we need to start passing bills that fit the law, not just.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u39	Thank you. The honourable national deputies, certainly after the election of the new president, will be able to make decisions. But we need to make decisions today because the powers I have today are limited and do not include all the President's prerogatives. Please, National Deputy Illenko. I can see the hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make it clear, it's not about pardon, it's about full rehabilitation, it's a little bit of other stuff. I would also like to propose to this list of Dmitri Resnichenko, a journalist, a blogger who was convicted illegally of taking part in protests near the Ukrainian House in 2012 against the adoption of anti-Ukrainian language law. Please also put his name on this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u41	Please, National Deputy Shufrich, then the People's Deputy Dubyl. Identify the two of you who will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, I hope that we approach this list objectively, regardless of who the region represents and who the political power represents. So I ask, and this would probably be objective, considering that even the BUT leader in prison said that he was a political prisoner who was thrown for playing Janukovic, namely, Igor Markov. I ask him to be included in this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u43	Please, People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u44	Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, I propose, I ask that part of the first chapter of the second "Final Position" be completed by paragraph of the following table of contents. Maksim Gennadijovich, an active member, is a member of the "Fatherland" Nizhina, because of his active civil position against the Bagrantz, a criminal case was falsified, which, due to the lack of evidence base, is unwarranted. Please support the Maksim Bagrant.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you with a very, you know, serious question. The thing is, it's very dangerous when we now begin to include the names, those names that are contained in the law, passed the expertise of the profile committee, the Attorney General's Office. And we clearly believe that there are good reasons for their initiative to do so. I do not rule out that we have not all included, and there are other people who have been planted politically motivated, not according to the current Ukrainian legislation. That's why I have the next offer. We can adopt this law with regard to the people who are now being sounded by Oleg Lazko, who have passed an expert study. All the other names, I'd like to assign to the Henprocuratorship, the profile committee, together with the Sudokus Committee, to work out this issue, analyze it, and after their expertise, we can complete this law with these names. It'll be legal, my friends. Because every deputy has to raise his hand as Deputy Herman now holds his hand, and bring any last name. We cannot treat legislation that way; we cannot view the responsibility of the Supreme Council in implementing this legislation. So I'd like you to support me. Now Oleg Lazko reads his last name, we'll pass this law. All the names that have now been announced are recorded in the transcript, and I am commissioning during the period of the profiling committee, the Attorney General's Office to conduct an expert review of these names and to find out, were politically motivated by their delay and arrests, and relevant court decisions, whether there are any grounds to say that court decisions have been made objectively. Regrettably, the Supreme Council is forced to enact such laws because, in fact, the entire judiciary is destroyed in Ukraine. People don't believe in courts. Honest people are thrown for play and convicted, and criminals are released for bribes. So, certainly, friends, without illustrating the entire judicial system, since the restoration of the entire judicial system, we will not be able to have fair courts, to have a judiciary in Ukraine, and to have, above all, the confidence of citizens in judicial decisions. It's our job with you. And now I'm asking the People's Deputy Laska to read out the names that went through the forensics.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u46	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, once again, on February 24, 2014, you and I made a decision to release political prisoners, which envisions amnesty and an end to criminal and administrative cases involving political prisoners. But this decision does not provide for their full rehabilitation. So today it is proposed to review and adopt a draft Act (registration number 4271) amending the Ukrainian Amnesty Act in Ukraine, and the decision we have adopted on this issue has become valid. That is, the honourable one, Mr. Head, two votes must be taken: the adoption of Bill 4271 as a basis and as a whole, and the second vote as to the recognition that the decree on the release of prisoners has become invalid. Thus, the list of prisoners, Mr. Titipko and other respected colleagues, at your request, is an individual amnesty, no murders, no rapes. There are people who are the victims of the criminal regime of Yanukovic. List of prisoners: Zaporez Vitaliy Mikolajovich, 77th birthday; Spara Vladimir Mikolajovich, 83rd birthday; Bevalez Sergei Vasilovich, 83rd birthday; Moseichuk Igor Volodymyrovich, 72nd year; Bileck Andriy Evgenovich, 79th; Mikhailenko Igor Volodymyrovich, 88th; Knezhsky Vitali Vasilovich, 80th; Primenko Vitali Leonidovich, 66th; Pavlicenko Dmitry Aleksandrovich, 63rd; Pavlicniko Sergei Dmitrovich, 92nd; Boyko Antoniliyovich, 88th; Shamov Anton Volodymyrovich, 87th; Svetonko Dmitry Kostinović, 89th; Radolov Aleksandr Sergiyyyevich, 80th; Popislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u47	Please finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u48	Popović Vladislav Mikolajovich, 80th; Urazgeldiev Rustam Agajmović, 85th; Jaromolenko Sergiy Vasilovich, 79th; Bondarenko Andriy Evgenovich, 1972; Popović Anatoliy Mikolajovich, 1987; Hanenko Igor Anatolievich, 1993; Smalý Viktor Mikolajovich, 1976; Unicornko Oleg Anatoliyevich, 1974; Nastavajko Andrija Vitalajovich, 1991; Shamanov Andrija Ivanovic, 1975; Bagirova Alla Vasilivna, 1959; Babintsov Kirilo Alekandrović, 1991; Kubliy Mikhalo Vasilovich, 1991; Aksenjuk Sergij Mikolaajovich, 1990; Reszničniko Dmitro Alekandrović, 1984. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies! I ask now to vote on the basis and in general bill 4271. Please activate the "Council" voting system. [[11:03:25]] For 277 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you. And right now, at the suggestion of the author and the Supreme Council of Law, we're going to make a decision on the recognition of the one who lost the validity of the Prisoner Release Order that you and I had already taken with you a few days ago. Sergei Volodymyrovich, you want.?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u50	I see. Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Got it. Please put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, this decree is going to be invalidated from the moment it's acquired by this law, but let's vote. Please activate the "Council" voting system. [[11:04:25]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have received information on the active preparation for the report of the factions, the parliamentary groups on the formation of a new MP majority and the formation of a government. But in order for the government to start working. I'll give you a line right now, one minute. In order for the government to start working, we need to provide a legislative base for this. Your consideration will now be given to three laws, which also apply to the introduction of legislation on the Cabinet of Ministers, on local administrations to the requirements of the Constitution that we have restored. Before the reporter prepares and goes to the rostrum, I would like to ask for a minute to give the floor to the national deputy Rudzkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, given the critical situation we have today in Crimea, I propose that we do not discuss the adoption of these laws, because they bring us back to the legislative field of previous changes to the Constitution. This is the first time. The other one. Ask the deputy factions within half an hour to resolve the issue of the coalition and submit the Prime Minister's candidacy and, above all, the Minister of Defence. Perhaps even now the Minister of Defense needs to vote because the situation is critical. And I've been discussing the issues with the people's non-fractional deputies. Despite the fact that the strike party has not submitted its proposals, perhaps to consider the nomination of National Deputy Kunicin, Afghan, Crimean, to serve as Defence Minister. Perhaps a diplomatic path can be more determined than a military one. And the last. I think that we should vote today on the Elections Act to the Supreme Council, and the entire legislative field prepared, is the conclusion of the court – to remove the inviolability. Let's do it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u52	Please, Your Honor, we are now going to consider these laws. And I'd like to consider Law 4146. He's on his way to the rostrum. By procedure. Please, Your Honor, allow us to make a decision: we have a reduced procedure to consider these laws. Short cut. Because it will still be necessary to discuss them, and it will be necessary to consider them in a simplified way. Please vote on this question. [[11:07:28]] For 248 Decision taken. I'm asking you to meet me at the People's Deputy's Court. Please. Turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy of God, she wants to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I insist that these laws be adopted exclusively in the first reading. I called off my signature today under all the laws, because after a thorough review of the text, we saw there that the laws don't go back to what was before, and there are many changes. One such law, for example, amends that the Prime Minister cannot be removed from his duties under the state of health. It's to understand what's done there. So I strongly ask, first of all, to vote, if abbreviated, with discussion. Secondly, there is no way to vote for them in general. I'm against that, so I'd like you to write that down immediately. These laws, if not one member against them, cannot be adopted in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I then request the head of the Supreme Council subcommittee on the State Building of Anatoly Mikhailovich Bliznyuk. Please, for the report. There's an offer from the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u55	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Construction and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (Registration No. 4146). So all three of these projects I'd like to comment on right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u56	Please let us save time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u57	They have considered and adopted these laws allowing for a change in order to take account of the return to the 2004 Constitution. In the old edition, the president proposed and approved, and now the government is offering a coalition to the President, and the President is giving to the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council is making a decision. In its conclusion 26, the main scientific and expert body proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. After a comprehensive discussion of the committee's issues, we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading of the Ukrainian bill on the Cabinet of Ministers (registration number 4146) as a basis. Instruct the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to prepare the bill for second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u58	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, today is a very difficult situation in the country. You can see what's happening in our regions. Today, there must be an acceptable composition of government. This government should work literally from today and work around the clock. But the situation was that if a full Law on the Cabinet of Ministers was not adopted today, there would be no authority in this government to make decisions that were normal. We've been watching this bill. It fully envisions the restoration of the standards that are in place in 2006. I urge you, if we want to make rapid operational decisions to stabilize the situation in the country, give this government a vote of confidence, give it authority to work literally from the first minute after his appointment. Otherwise, we will now create a situation where the government does not have the powers provided for in the Constitution, and we will within two weeks agree on the draft of this law in a second reading. I call you. An extremely difficult situation. Please support him as a whole. Then we will make changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u60	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the point is, on the committee yesterday, I am responsible for this as the committee secretary, because I participated in the discussion and it was my proposal that was taken into account. I suggested that the text proposed in this bill to be renewed in 2010 contradicted the original law in 2006. The point is that between these years, he was subjected to so much change that his original appearance was distorted. And it is the one that was adopted in 2006 that meets the full requirements of the Constitution, which was adopted in 2004. All that was going on with this law was moving away from the Constitution. And unfortunately, for me, it was made under certain personalities in power. In view of these circumstances, the committee made a wise decision yesterday that we should restore the original edition that was in 2006. And what we're looking at today is a bill that has been elaborated on the committee that takes into account the 2006 edition itself. If we now go through two readings, dear colleagues, we will not be back in two weeks, but in two weeks only the deadline for making proposals under the Rules will be completed. Then the committee will start its work, I think, at least a week and a half. And finally in a month we can start talking about the ability of the Cabinet of Ministers to fully exercise our powers. Guys, well, it's just not that it's not that serious, it's just funny in this situation. In view of these circumstances, we can vote on this as a whole. And if we have any comments and suggestions, we're doing the same thing as we're doing the rest of the laws right now. And there is no other way, for everything else is from the wicked one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u62	Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, then Pinzenika.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, indeed, if you agree with the norm, the National MP may suggest that the bill be considered and voted first in the first reading, then in the second. But then, I agree with this, with Knyazevitch and the chairman, Head, then there is no point in doing what we are set up to do today, that is to choose a government. Under what will be the chosen government, the appointed government? What he will do if there is no legislative basis for an up-to-date, up-to-date legislative basis on which he is to rely and from which he is to proceed. So I think that I would like to agree in this regard with Kniazewicz, and I would like to say that without voting today on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, without providing a legal basis for the work of the government, we are now nullifying the very meaning of "the appointment of a coalition government." So I would like to ask my colleague, who made the proposal only on the basis of the vote, to withdraw his proposal and vote today in all of these three bills, which he reported from the committee of his colleague, the Gemini. Once again, only then will it make sense to do what we planned to do today about the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u64	People's MP Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u65	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, today has no more important task than to form a government urgently. The strike party's faction is ready to vote, support both the Prime Minister's candidature and the Cabinet's personal composition. And to that end, we have no obstacle to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. By the way, he's not being brought into line, it's a new law. And I'd like to draw your attention to some things. If you go to the other side of the street, you'll see a house where there's a tablet called the government building. I'm informing you that there's everyone there except the government. There's no government there, actually. Who's there? There's a government apparatus called the Department of Government and the rest of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics. If we are talking about serious systemic changes in Ukraine, we should start reforming the central executive body. The position where the Secretary of Government is a double, double cabinet of ministers*** is wrong and needs a settlement. The position of Ukraine's deputy prime minister is also questionable. Next. We're not comfortable with the fact that the State Service Act is being extended to ministers in part of the pension system. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under another law, the deputy minister's candidates are appointed prime minister. Please tell me, how is this different from the situation when the Vice Minister was appointed by the President of Ukraine? If we are saying that the minister is responsible for politics in the field, only the minister should appoint those who are subordinated to him. I suggest that if there are any things that require regulation in regulation, let's take them. As for the laws, we are willing to work on them, not to consider them today, and to adopt laws that will move the country forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard two suggestions. One proposal is to adopt the law as a basis and in general, one proposal is to adopt it in the first reading. Please, come on, National Deputy Cibenko, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u67	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the faction, I would like to support the proposal that has already been made, particularly by one of the authors of this bill, that this document can only be adopted in the first reading -- this is the first. Secondly, I appeal to all colleagues that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today should work extremely well. What do I mean? Today, from the rostrum, we put labels on people who live in Crimea who claim their active position. But did we not provoke this position with you when we repealed the completely European Language Law? Then let us be responsible for making decisions. And two more things I want to say right now, taking this opportunity. First of all, I propose that we in the Cabinet Act of Ukraine cancel the "Government Hour" rule and return to "Government Day." This will allow for careful analysis, decision-making, and real impact on the situation in the country. Because the government's hour was like, "That's how I hear it." Well, we understand that it was just an ordinary KWN. And one more thing. Both the Social Policy Committee and factions, and I think a lot of colleagues today are being approached by many Ukrainian citizens about the problem of humanitarian aid. Earlier at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there was a commission led by the Humanitarian Vice-Prime Minister who dealt with these issues. We need to get back to setting up a humanitarian aid commission at the Cabinet of Ministers. Because today, the situation is that for months, for years, people's humanitarian burdens have been delayed on customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I am convinced that as soon as the government works, customs will work effectively. I'm only asking, colleagues, and I'm talking to the speakers who are still speaking, so we don't have to speculate on the situation and compare what happened in Crimea this morning with what happened in Ukraine. Administrations with heavy automatic weapons were not captured in Ukraine. In Ukraine no protestors were required to unify areas, villages, and villages. So criminals who have guns in their hands are taking over administrative buildings that require the disengagement of any territory of the country, they're criminals and they're a crime against the state. And here Ukraine will act in accordance with its Constitution and legislation, dot. That's not a comment. Please, National Deputy Tomenko. We'll make decisions by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I have a request to you that we combine those observations to which I absolutely agree, which Victor Pinzenik, other colleagues, has spoken. But I think that these observations are wise and normative, should take into account the political situation, the circumstances we are in. So my suggestion: today to vote in favour of the bill as a whole on the condition that in the Transitional and Final Positions add paragraph 6, there are five points. Item 6. The Supreme Council by May 25 (well, we understand, before the beginning, before the end of the presidential election campaign, because today we have no President, we have the executive duty of President) to make changes and additions to the law that has been expressed today. Because we are aware that there are indeed certain powers here that the Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers from the President, certain powers are passed on from local self-government. But once again, by supporting this idea, we have no pleasure today in playing first, second, and third reading. So it's the law to approve with an amendment. Add paragraph 6, Alexander Valentinovich. By May 25, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider changes to the law that correspond to, there, the 2004 Constitution, what has been said today. But to vote immediately today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u70	National deputy Shufrich. And we'll make decisions, dear colleagues. Too many speakers, it's no longer a reduced procedure, it's completely out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, there have been very sharp changes in the country, but frankly, they need to be made. We went back to the 2004 Constitution. And it had to be done a long time ago. But as a result of the events that are now taking place, regardless of who's involved and who's responsible, we are now seeing great disorder, looting, continuing the occupation of state buildings. The question is: So does the new authority capture itself? And now we have to stop our actions and not allow the facts of intolerance. And I welcome the fact that yesterday in Lviv was the day of "communication in Russian." And this is another signal that we are one country. But today we must be consistent, stop the looting and violence. And these laws today will prompt the establishment of order and the restoration of the functioning of the Constitution, which will not allow dictatorship! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, in order for us to sum up the discussion, I give the floor to the head of the profiling committee of the Twin Anatoly Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, we've consulted both the faction and the committee, and given the opportunity to give the government a chance to form and work, we're ready to make a change by May 25. And we suggest that we accept it as a whole. We'll vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u74	Thank you so much for your civil position. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Turn on the "Race" system. And to vote in favour of Law 4146, the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:25:32]] For 313 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in order to avoid any nuances or problems that the National MPs have spoken about, I have orders to conduct a technical and legal elaboration of this project within the framework of the Supreme Council Rules when preparing it for signature. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Thank you. I would ask that this is the way we would now vote against Law 4148 without discussion. I'm going to announce his name, the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities to implement it in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the fact that we have actually discussed all three laws, I would immediately ask you to vote in favour of making this decision without discussion. Please vote. [[11:26:45.]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act (4148) amending the Ukrainian Act "On Central Executive Authorities" to bring it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, draft Act 4148. Please include the "Council" system and determine its acceptance as a basis and as a whole by voting. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:27:33]] For 308. Decision taken. Thank you very much, dear colleagues. And the third law in this package, No. 4147, is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Local Government Administrations to bring it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. I would also like to support the ad hoc proposal for decisions without discussion. Please vote. [[11:28:11]] For 288 Decision taken. Please put to the vote the draft Act 4147 is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Administrations to bring Ukraine into line with the Constitution. Please make your decision by voting on it as a basis and as a whole. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[11:28:48]] For 312 Decision taken. I thank all the national MPs who have created the legislative basis for the restoration of executive power in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I ask that the Supreme Council continue to work day-to-day, and I will immediately consult with the faction leaders, and the leaders of the power structures are waiting for me at the meeting on the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I ask the deputy to continue the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u75	Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (registration number 4256) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine (rehabilitation of persons who have been subjected to political repression and sentenced by the courts of Ukraine from February 2010 to February 2014). Ladies and gentlemen, what is the proposal to discuss this matter? Please turn on the stand microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u76	Mr. Chairman, may I have your attention? The bill itself makes a mistake: in the Ukrainian language, the word "in Ukraine" is not used. I ask you to change the word "in Ukraine". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u77	I asked the question of what procedure -- whether it's short or full discussion. Please turn on the microphone, Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The bill was still on the agenda yesterday, and it deals with the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. We also discussed this issue in faction. And yesterday I consulted with the authors of this bill. Among the articles to which this law is to be applied is article 115 — willful murder. And our colleagues in the authors' circle promised to make a substantial list of those articles that would be rehabilitated. So I'm willing to suggest that we consider a reduced procedure. But the first reading should be corrected, and then the faction of the Party of Regions can vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Society, I am voting on the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:31:57]] For 216 Decision taken. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the National Deputy Briginz Alexandr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, this law, which I have prepared for 26, relates to the release and rehabilitation of the illegally detained Andriy Nastawayka. Since the bill has now become the law prepared by Oleg Lazko, who also applies to this man, I think it is necessary to pass this law. None. So thank you all for working with me on the law. And I hope that all decisions will be made in accordance with the law prepared by Oleg Lazko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u81	Are you suggesting we take it off now?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u82	I suggest you put it off now, and we'll see how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u83	Okay. Dear Society, one of the drafters of the bill proposes to postpone the bill. Is there no objection? No, it's okay. Ariev. Please include Arieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! We have now considered many bills on the rehabilitation of victims of political repression, but unfortunately, so far the name Yuri Lucenka has not been included in any of the lists. I'm asking you very much, let's do it instead of this law. The bill will be considered in the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons for the Implementation of Decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. This will apply to all Ukrainian citizens who have been given decisions before the European Court of Human Rights, who have not yet received the relevant decisions in the Ukrainian courts. And this needs to be done now, and I'm asking you to put it right now in the agenda instead of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u85	Respectable association. Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I will make it clear that the drafters of the bill that we discussed yesterday have completely changed the bill, substantially amended the bill, registered it for a new issue, and are proposing to be considered tomorrow. There are those articles that cannot be covered by this law and we vote on them. And now I support the proposal to withdraw this bill because it lost its relevance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u87	Thank you. Respectable Society! There's an offer: To remove this bill from the agenda today. We do. To invite the authors to work on it, if necessary, if necessary, well, we will be determined further. So, dear friends, I ask you to take your seats so we can vote on this bill being removed from the agenda. I'm betting on the vote on the withdrawal of the bill (register No. 4256). Ladies and gentlemen, please be advised. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:35:36]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft law (registration number 4092) is proposed for your consideration, the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on Recognition of Persons Deprived of Validity, the Ukrainian Act of 7 October 2010 (No. 2592-6) "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to bring them into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine". Suggestions? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u88	I am not the author of this legislative initiative, but I am the author of that legislative initiative that has been considered and amended. I would, however, like to give the floor to Sergio Anatoliyovich Teriokin, who, using the right provided for in the Rules, proposes that we change some technical and legal character to the already voted law, using 131 articles of the Rules. They're right, and they're giving us the opportunity to now, let's say, fully implement those laws that have been voted on. And then, on my part, I promise. That in the near future we will introduce a large, comprehensive law that reproduces 72 laws that need to be restored immediately and allow the Cabinet of Ministers and other central authorities of the executive branch to work fully in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you. Please give the floor to Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u89	Okay. We're going to have Teryochin speaking now, and he's going to give us a heads-up. Dear Society, what are some of the suggestions regarding this issue? What procedure? Short cut? Dear company, I ask you to make up your mind. Please vote in favour of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[11:37:48]] For 215 Decision taken. I would like to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Teryohin Sergey Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u90	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! It's a very simple question. We must vote on the legalization of the law that we passed on February 23, which was repealed by Law No. 2592 of October 7, 2010, in connection with the return of the Constitution. What did we write in that law? That the laws were in force in the text that existed on 07.10.2010 and had made a legal error, since then there were many changes to those laws, which did not apply to the Constitution, which were contained in 58 other laws. Therefore, in order of 131st article, it is suggested that this supplement should be made: in article 2 of that law of February 23, write that instead of the words "establish that the laws of Ukraine" should be replaced by the words "and establish that the laws of Ukraine" And after the words "in the editorial order of October 7, 2010" add: "with the changes made by the laws of Ukraine after October 7, 2010 in parts that correspond to the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine that act on the date of entry into force of this law." I mean, this constitution. So we're the mess that we've made, I'm sorry, 23 numbers in the financial field, in the fiscal sphere, in the tax, by the way, we're going to be in the sphere. I repeat that this is voted as an amendment by one vote, and after that, by another vote, the law is adopted in the final form, and is sent to the Head of the Supreme Council. Now this law, as you can understand, is not signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u91	Thank you. Respectable Society! Is there a need to discuss this? Please turn Pinzenik on and we'll be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! I ask you to uphold this law, this technical amendment, because this amendment restores the effect of those changes to the law that had nothing to do with the Constitution, but in the previous decision we cancelled them. Therefore, the proposal is to support and vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote the draft Act (Registration No. 4092) the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act "On Recognition of the Law of Ukraine of 7 October 2010" (No. 2592-6) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to bring them into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, with the rights that have been declared. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. On the basis and in general, of course. Edit. [[11:41:21]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. Announcements, distinguished national MPs. In accordance with part two of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I inform you of the registration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the "Supreme European Ukraine" Group. The group included 37 Ukrainian national deputies. Authorized to represent the MPs of the elected national deputies Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich, Moskalenko Jaroslav Mikolajovich, Donji Alexander Sergiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item in the agenda of our sitting is the appointment of individual out-of-order local elections. People's deputy Zwania, head of the committee, please. Please invite the national deputy Zwania. The committee head will be here in a moment. We'll continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the assignment of out-of-court local elections. For a report on this subject, the head of the Supreme Council Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule by Zwania David Važajevich is given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! During 2013-2014, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government considered in general 26 issues of individual city councils on the appointment of out-of-office elections for the corresponding city heads in connection with the early termination of their powers. In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the committee prepared and submitted appropriate draft regulations with registration numbers: 1201-130, 1201-131, 1201-132, 1201-159, 2248, 2348, 2394a, 2395a, 2396a, 3279, 3280, 3281, 3282, 3283, 3518, 3519, 3751, 3752, 3856, 4056, 4057, 4058, 4059, 4140, 4141, 4288. Since most of these projects are reviewed and approved by the committee over a long period of time, the committee has proposed different dates for the selection of the city’s heads. Taking into account the untimely consideration of these draft regulations in the session hall, following the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian laws on local self-government in Ukraine and local elections, the committee decided at its meeting on 26 February 2014 to hold an extraordinary election of individual city heads, unanimously endorsed the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint these elections on Sunday, 25 May 2014. So please support the draft decrees for the selection of individual city heads with the above registration numbers and assign these elections on Sunday, May 25, 2014. Dear colleagues, please support. If you have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u95	Thank you. People’s Deputies — Will There Be Questions? Any questions? There's a question. People's deputies please sign up for factions. I'm sorry if I can ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u96	I can read what cities to get the numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u97	Now. I'm asking you to give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u99	David Vajayevich, we certainly support this whole initiative. The only thing I'm asking you to do is read out a specific list of cities in which the elections are to be held, because according to the number of regulations, we're nothing at all, and people see nothing, which cities are currently being held, please read.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u100	Can I have a microphone? Oh, it's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u101	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u102	I will be in line, i.e. district centres: Bill No. 2248 – Draft Order on the Assignment of the Extraordinary Elections of the Montenegrin City Head; 1201-131 – Draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Herson City Head; 1201-132 – Draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Mikolai City Head; 3856 – Draft Decision on the Assignment of the Elections of the Odessa City Head. Next comes the cities of regional importance, twelve. 2348 — Draft Decision on the appointment of the successive election of the City Head of Ohtyr; the Nižin City Head; the Saxon City Head; the Fast City Head; the Feodosian City Head; the Neteshin City Head; the Lysician City Head; the Rowenkow City Head; the Canow City Head; the First-Traven City Head of the Dnipropetrov Region; and the Snowland Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u103	Let me finish. Wait, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u104	And the last one is the Jmerinian city head. Then we have ten, ten cities of circuit value. It is: The Christian City Head; the Upper Prudent City Head; the Bilopil City Head; the Barwink City Head; the Kamyan City Head; the Barbrazian City Head; the Kremenack City Head; the Assembly City Head; the Family City Head; the Perval City Head. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u105	On the 25th, I stressed. May 25, 2014
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u106	Please turn on Knyazevich's microphone, the faction of Fatherland's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u107	Let me tell you what I want. [[The voice from the hall. You don't tell me what to say, you tell me what to say. Talk about district councils in Kiev.]] We must immediately hold circuit council elections in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u108	People's deputy Knjazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u109	Please, David Vajaevich, come on, let him say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u110	If there are any more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u111	Now, one second. Please give the Prince one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, let's stop for a moment. We have a major problem with the Law itself on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, rural, rural, urban heads. And the primary task for the Council is to immediately work out a law that would eliminate the deformities of the madmen that are in that law that are in force at this point. Remember, the international community did not leave this law in its conclusions as a result of the 2010 elections. And another important thing we need to do. Since we are now assigning local elections on the presidential election date, we have a huge problem. In line with these two laws, parallel electoral committees, parallel districts, and parallel electoral campaigns must be formed. So we have to think about how we can unify them in one law of the Transitional Regulations and save a huge amount of government money. Because we've allocated almost 2 billion to the presidents. In addition, tens of millions of dollars from the budget will be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u113	Thank you. From the faction, please turn on the records. Well, too bad, huh? National MP, please respond to the Cherkas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u114	In Chercas, there are still courts. We do. Sorry, we only work within the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. The courts have not yet been completed in Chercas. We have no right as the Supreme Council to appoint out-of- turn elections if there are no exhaustive grounds for holding them. In Chercas, the situation is not clear. Look, the committee works like a machine gun. He does not have any debts for the assignment of local councils. You remember that we were assigned, despite the fact that the Supreme Council had not voted for a year. We assigned all the elections to the hall on the day we had reason to hold such an election. No debt, regardless of the political situation, has ever been on the committee. All the members of the committee can confirm this, we've brought it up in time. There's no reason for a meeting in Chercas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u115	Please turn on the microphone of the People's MP of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u116	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear David Vazievich, I have two questions for you that exclude each other, but I ask you to answer them. First. Haven't we missed any polling points? If we put May 25th in the election, so that one moss, as they say, will do all of this. And the second. If we can't do that, given the situation with the laws on the local elections and the presidential elections, how can we do that if we do now and vote in favour of the local elections and the President? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u117	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u118	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I actually wanted to pay attention to the points that the National Deputy Knjazevitch had presented. In fact, today we have extremely serious problems in a series of Ukrainian legislation not about elections. Starting with, exactly, the election law, namely, the President of Ukraine, where we already have a problem with creating, right, the commission right up to the vote. Including the Law on, namely, elections to the Supreme Council and to local councils. As we take care of the development of local self-government and the transfer of it, it's very, very, very, very, very fast, that we need to create, today, a temporary special, just, commission and work on changes to electoral legislation across the line, namely, the Presidential, National MPs and local councils. Thank you. But we will support these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u119	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Ah, please answer, David Vazievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u120	With regard to the Law on Elections in Local Councils, local self - government agencies. Of course, the law needs to be worked out. We have two versions of the law, the next committee will look at all the amendments, and we'll put them in the hall, in the first amendment to the Law on Local Council Elections. It will be worked out because the Law by which we chose local councils is completely imperfect and enables us to carry out falsifications. So now the task force is working, and the next committee will look into it, and we'll put it in the hall. So we're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u121	If possible, explain yourself again in Chercas. Replica Heratchenko, and we will move on to decision-making. Please turn on Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I have been asked this question by all the deputies who represent Cherkaščina here, both in the majority districts and on the lists that represent the parties behind the Church. David Vajayevich, you know, there's a riot going on in Cherkas, there's no land, there's no land, there's no land, there's no city, there's no mayor, there's a governor running away to Spain. It's just that we're throwing the area and the city away. What courts are we talking about if we know the value of these courts? Especially in Cherkas, when they printed these courts, they printed, there was the most, you know, trying to put up rebels and stuff. It's a big mistake now for the Supreme Council not to appoint an election in Chercas, and the city won't understand us. So we ask for it separately, but Tomenko and I have an election order in Chercas on May 25th. And the hall either backs up or doesn't back up. We can't, Supreme Council, depending on the decisions of the courts! It is our right and our duty to make choices!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u123	I'll answer you this way, Irina, I'll answer you this way. We're the last committee to decide that we don't close the committee and work online by making decisions. And we're working now, and we're working on Chercass to get everyone, just all the legal conclusions for the election. Now, today, we have only raised the questions that we are absolutely prepared for. On other issues, we have 30 more bills to work on. I promise you that in the very near future these questions will be put to the floor and voted. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u124	Give me a line to Odarchenk. Guys, we're already going to a full discussion. Let's get this over with. Turn on the mic last, and let's go. Please turn on Odarchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we must urgently appoint elections to the district councils in Kiev. People in Kiev stood to see their presence in power. Many thanks for their presence today in Maidan, but tomorrow they must be represented in the real authorities, in the district councils, in the Kiev City Council. And today, by not selecting or forming circuit council elections, we are committing a crime, we are deceiving people. We say you'll be in power, but we're not doing anything about it. The Chinese deserve respect today, for their basic respect. Today we go down to the same homage as Janukovic did, not forming district councils or making elections. I just heard from Mr. Zwania, the head of the committee, and I want to hear it on the microphone, he promised that on Monday the question would be put to a vote at the next meeting, in plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u126	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return to the session room. Please invite everyone to the session room. Honourable National MPs, I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2248) on the appointment of extraordinary elections of the Montenegrin City Head to be adopted on the basis and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, please be advised. [[11:59:18]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft decree (registration 1201-131) on the appointment of out-of-office elections (Herson City Head of the Herson District) for the adoption of a basic and overall decision. Please vote. [[11:59:52]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of the Mikolayev City of Mikolayev Region (registration number 1201-132) on the appointment of out-of-order elections (Mikolai City Head of Mikolayev Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:00:25]] For 324 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3856) on the appointment of out-of-office elections (Odes City Head of Odessa District) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:00:55.]] For 328 "For" 308. Decision taken. I'm voting on the Bill of Order (Registration No. 2348) on the appointment of out-of-order elections (Ochtyr City Head of the City City Council of the Suma Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:01:28]] For the 320. Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 2394a) About the appointment of the consecutive election of the Ninja City Head of the town of Nizhin of Chernigiv district) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:01:59]] For 321 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree 2395 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sack City Head (Saka of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:02:31]] For 317 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decision No. 2396 on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the Fastov City Head (the city of Fastov Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:03:02]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3281) on the appointment of the next election of the Feodosian City Head (Feodosian City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:03:33]] For 319 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decision No. 3283 on the appointment of the non-commissioned election of the Netishin City Head (the city of Neteshins of the Hmelnitsk Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:04:04]] For the 320. Decision taken. I would like to vote on the draft Decision 3518 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Lysican City Head (Lisican City Council of the Luhansk Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:04:34]] For 318 Decision taken. I'm betting on a draft Decree (Registration No. 3752) on the appointment of Rowenkovsky City Head (Rovenkow City Council of the Lugansk Region) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:05:06]] For 311 Dear friends, we're going a little beyond our Rules. Let us finish our vote, there will be no denying that we have already voted all the elections – the local elections? Thank you. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4056) on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Canow City Head (Cherkas County City City) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:05:50]] For 317 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4057) on the appointment of the pre-elections of the First-Traven City Head (Town of the First-Traven Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:06:21]] For 315 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4141) on the appointment of the Snownian City Head (Snownian City Council of the Donetsk Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:06:51]] For 311 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of the decree (registration number 1201-130) on the appointment of the next election of the Christian City Head (Christian City Council of the Christian Region of Cherkas) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:07:24]] For 316 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 1201-159) on the appointment of out-of-office elections of the Upper POW (High POW) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:07:59]] For 313 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the Billopil City (Bilopil City Council of the Summum Region) bill of office for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:08:30]] For 311 Decision taken. I'm voting on the Barwink City Council of the Barwink district of Kharkiv district (registration number 3280) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:09:03]] For 315 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3282) on the appointment of the Kamyan City Head (Camyan City Council of the Kamyan District of Cherkas region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:09:34]] For 311 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3751) on the appointment of the successive election of the Crimean City Head (Cremenac of the Kremenac district of Ternopil district) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:10:05]] For 315 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (registration number 4058). I'm sorry, 3751, about the appointment of the next election of the Cremenite City Head. We just voted, I'm sorry. I put to the vote a draft Decree (Registration No. 4058) on the appointment of the Assembly’s municipal head (Congregational City Council of the Ternopil district) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:10:58]] For 311 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 3519) on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the city head (Barazka City Council of the Ternopil Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:11:30]] For 314 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4059) on the appointment of the next election of the Rodin City Head (City of the Rodin Red Army City Council of the Donetsk Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:12:02]] For 313 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Decree (No. 4140) on the appointment of the pre-elections of the Preval City Head (City of Prevalsk of the Preval region of Lugansk Region) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:12:31]] For 310 Decision taken. And the last, the esteemed society, the decision (registration number 4288) to appoint the successive election of the guerilla-head of the city (the town of Squirrel-Vinnicki district) for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:13:02]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. In our agenda, there is still a crucial question about the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Before that, with your permission, I'll read out the ad. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations and in accordance with personal claims submitted, I report the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies, Bilovola Alexandr Mikolaiovich and Tobacco James Pinević into the Economic Development Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I am with your permission. Then we'll wait for the result. I'll find out what the result is right now and where our faction leaders are, how much time they need, what they're ready for. Now, here we go, I see Arseny Petrovich Yatzenuk, perhaps the faction's leadership has been defined and is ready to report. Arsenija Petrovich, you can tell us something right now because we're about to discuss the agenda of the day's appointment of Prime Minister. We need to take another break. Are you ready to report to us, faction leaders? Please turn on Arsenija's microphone, Petrovich Yatzenyuk. Please turn on Arsenija's microphone, Petrovich Yatzenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u127	The country's distinguished national deputies, all documents relating to the creation of the coalition, have been prepared. In order to legally complete this process, we need to gather coalition congregations under a treaty that has already been signed. And within an hour, we can begin to announce the coalition, the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Government’s Programme of Action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u128	Dear friends, are we what? Let's go, shall we wait for a break? We're on a break anyway. Then we announce a break for one hour and an hour, that is, at 1:15 a.m., everyone to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u129	Please invite all national deputies to the hall. We will continue the work of the Supreme Council. I very much hope that the main issues on which the stability of the situation in Ukraine depends will now be resolved -- the full restoration of Ukrainian power, the return of the country within the framework of the law and the Constitution, namely the election of the Prime Minister and the entire composition of the government by our Parliament. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Please make an announcement to have all the deputies come to the Supreme Council Hall. Until I make the announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I report the departure of the national deputies of Dmitruk Mikli Ilić, Žuravský Vitalija Stanislavovic, Leluka Olexija Volodymirovic, Šipek Andrija Fedorovic from the MP’s party of the region. Dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian people, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I officially declare that on February 27, 2014, a coalition of parliamentary factions was formed and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Assembly on February 27, 2014 in the Supreme Ukraine of the seventh vocation – "European Choice". The coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is formed by MP factions and groups: the Fatherland faction, the Vitalia Klicka Faction, the Freedom faction, the Economic Development Group, the Sovereign European Ukraine Group and other national MPs. As part of the 250 national deputies of Ukraine who signed their own signatures, they confirmed their agreement to become members of the coalition. I welcome this very important step. [[Applause]] A step toward fully stabilising the situation in our country. The full restoration of executive power, both in the center and in places. According to information received from faction leaders, the number of coalitions may increase. Because not all deputies who have shown a desire to join the coalition are in the session room today. Dear colleagues, in order not to waste time, I ask the coalition directly in the hall to see the entire Ukrainian people, to hold an organizational meeting of members of the coalition to determine with the government and the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, someone from the coalition is ready to go to the rostrum. Sergey Sobolev, National MP. Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the coalition! Protocol of the General Assembly of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, which became part of the European Choice Coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation (since February 27, 2014, the city of Kiev, the street of Grushewski, building 5). The signatures of 250 Ukrainian national deputies are now present. [[Applause]] There is an offer to consider the order of the day. Will I be the head of the congregations? None. The order of the day is next. About the formation of the European Choice Coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Assembly. The second question. On the nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. And the third question. Concerning the introduction of proposals by the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. How will we vote? The hand is the offer. Who's in this order of business? Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cards? There's an offer, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We just gave the Supreme Council Hall to vote and to the faction congregations. The Council system only serves the Supreme Council, not the coalition. Please vote with your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u132	Who's in charge of this agenda, please vote. Who's in?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u133	Please put your hands down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u134	Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? I welcome the coalition's approval of the agenda. [[Applause]] Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u135	I'm setting a record that the decision is made unanimously. Friends, I'm also a member of the coalition, I didn't vote. Please attach my voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u136	Thank you. And so, on the first question, we decided. To form a coalition of European Choices in accordance with the Treaty on the Establishment of a European Coalition for European Choices in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call. The number of national deputies who entered is 250 national deputies. The Agreement on the Establishment of the Requirements, the Principles of the European Coalition of European Choice in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Convention, signed by 250 National Deputies, is added. The second question. Introducing the National Deputy of Ukraine, the head of the All-Ukrainian faction "Fatherskin" Yatsenuk Arsenuk Arseny Petrovich, to serve as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Authorize the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Koshulinsky to introduce the acting President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Turkish proposal for a coalition "European Choice" for the nomination of Yacenouk Arseny Petrovich for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. Who's in? The coalition is voting. Please put it down. Against? You holding up? The decision has been made. Question three. Following the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of Arsenija Yatsenuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine to make proposals to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for nominations to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. List added. Who's in favour, please vote. Please put it down. Who's against it? You holding up? The decision has been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u137	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Dear colleagues, I think the coalition can work with us right here in the hall and the main thing is for us to make a historic decision right now. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85, 114 of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's Constitution, are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission by the President of Ukraine. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the coalition of MP factions proposed and proposed Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine. In my statement as acting President of Ukraine, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the candidacy of Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. The corresponding draft decision is added. It is suggested that your fellow Members, the next procedure for dealing with the matter. For a presentation on the main directions for future activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, give the candidate for the post of Prime Minister up to 20 minutes. On a question to the candidate, dear colleagues, let's also take 20 minutes. Is it too much? Ten minutes, taking into account time. Thank you. Dear colleagues, when it comes to discussing the candidature, there is a proposal for statements from factions. No objections? There's no objection. Let's move on to the question. The interview is given to the candidate for prime minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u138	Dear Ukrainian people, the country's distinguished national deputies! Today our country is in one of the most complex historical periods. The country is on the verge of economic and political collapse, and they want to tear the country apart and stretch it. And only in our power, and only in the interests of the Ukrainian people, are we obliged to preserve the integrity of the Ukrainian State. The integrity of that country that will become a member of the European Union, the integrity of that nation that has a great future. But for this future, we all need to take full responsibility. Ukraine is now going through a very difficult process. First of all, the territorial integrity and unity of Ukraine are at stake. There are violations of the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. That is why I would like to begin with this statement from what Ukraine calls for all the participants in the Budapest Memorandum to guarantee security, territorial integrity, the unity of Ukraine. Then, when the memorandum was signed, it was determined that the guaranteeing countries, Russia, the United States and Britain, would assume responsibility for guaranteeing any avoidance of military conflicts, and that none of the neighbouring countries would ever, under any circumstances, intervene in Ukraine's internal affairs. Separatism is now being attempted, first of all, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I think it's our shared vision and the decision that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly adopted: exclusive unity, condemnation of separatism and the struggle against those who want to break the unity of the Ukrainian state. Yes, there are many differences in Ukraine: someone speaks Ukrainian, someone speaks Russian, someone sees Ukrainian history one by one, someone sees it another, someone goes to one church, someone prays in another church. But our strength, power as Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, is only that, despite our differences in some way, we are the only ones in the desire to live in a united Ukraine. We are the only ones who want to respect each other, to help each other and to preserve what our grandparents, our parents, and to preserve what needs to be done for our children. I would like to start now, not from the economy, but from the issues that are hot, that are abused and used. Now it's about national unity, and anyone who calls for division is those who are against the Ukrainian people and are against the Ukrainian state. I want to point out a particular language question. The only national language is Ukrainian. And we clearly note that article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution, respectively, is the only language other than Ukrainian, which is set out in the Constitution, is Russian. We will provide all national minorities, all national and cultural and ethnic groups with guarantees and the rights to develop them. Every Ukrainian, whether he is in the West or he is in the East or he speaks Ukrainian, Russian or any other language, or he goes to one church or another, must know that he is a Ukrainian citizen, and the Ukrainian State will ensure to everyone all the constitutional rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Basic Law of Ukraine, which is the Ukrainian Constitution. () [[Applause]] Honorable Members of Parliament! I have to tell you the truth about what's going on in the Ukrainian economy. We now have no definitive and reliable data on the state of the state budget of Ukraine. But over the last few days after getting the previous information that's been going on at the State Treasury, the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance, I want to tell you that the state execution in Ukraine is stolen and empty. That's why I say from this high rostrum, I promise no improvement today or tomorrow. Our main task is to stabilize the situation in the state. A few digits. The government debt today amounted to $75 billion. In 2010, when Viktor Janukovic came to the President's office, the debt was double. The country’s gold reserves, which amounted to $37 billion three years ago, fell to $15 billion. In fact, more than $20 billion of the United States’ gold reserves have been embezzled and $37 billion of credits have disappeared in an unknown direction. There are not billions or hundreds of millions of dollars left in a single treasury account of 4.3 million dollars, the only treasury account is empty. In the country, unemployment is escalating, and foreign investment from Ukrainian banks and Ukrainian business entities is increasing. Over the last six months, investors have been fleeing and saving their capital in other countries, as in the corrupt government that was the government of Viktor Yanukovic, it was impossible to work and it was impossible to develop the Ukrainian economy. We are facing incredible economic challenges, and in order to overcome these economic challenges, I also say from this high rostrum: we have no choice but to make extremely unpopular decisions. It's a decision that will apply to subsidies, it's a decision that will apply to tariffs, it's a decision that will affect the reduction of social programs, it's a decision that will affect the preservation of the country's financial system. In particular, I would like to point out that the government is obliged to take immediate measures to reduce the cost of the State budget to maintain the authorities of the state, starting with the fact that no Ukrainian official, after the formation of the Ukrainian government, has the right to use chartered aircraft and various types of benefits, and ending with the fact that members of the Cabinet of Ministers, representatives of government executives and authorities in places should forget about personal cars, forget about personal benefits and should realize that in Ukraine, the most severe system of financial control has been introduced throughout the history of the Ukrainian financial system with reduced budget costs. Also, the country's distinguished national deputies, I report to you that in relation to Ukraine, a number of claims have been filed for repayment of loans and reimbursement of funds received by the government of Azarova-Januković. Yes, there is now a lawsuit in the international courts for the return of $3 billion that was received under State guarantees from the People's Republic of China. The location of 3 billion US dollars is not established. I want to point out separately what's going on in energy. According to our data, the previous government of Azarova-Janukovich owed Russia $1.8 billion this morning. We are now obliged to receive immediate loans from international financial institutions in order to pay the debts that have been stolen, I stress, stolen from the government of Yanukovic-Azarov. In the past three years, about $70 billion has been recovered from the financial system of Ukraine for offshore accounts. Now it's clear that funds were being drawn up that were being taken as loans under State guarantees and robbed by representatives of the previous government. In particular, I want to point out tax and customs policy issues. The basis is a hard fight against corruption in the tax and customs spheres. We'll be assigning heads of the State Tax Administration and the State Customs Service exclusively to non-members of the system who have Western and European visions that are capable of bringing the system into order. Also one of the most corrupt ministries of the former order, this is the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly, which should be eliminated. The earrings must die. [[Applause]] That's why, honourable national MPs, once again, I would like to point out that this government will make extremely unpopular decisions. These decisions will not have broad support among Ukrainians in the short term. I want to be honest with the Ukrainian people. We don't have the money right now to pay 12 billion dollars in debt, according to a court order. We don't have the opportunity to pay total social benefits and subsidies right now. Punishment's empty. But we have the opportunity to do everything we can to stabilize the financial system, to restore economic growth, to fill the budget, to fight corruption and to bring Ukraine back to normal economic and political life in the medium term. To that end, the new government must immediately start negotiations with the International Monetary Fund and take all decisions to obtain the funds of the International Monetary Fund, the European Union and other institutions that are capable of helping Ukraine today. The most important issue that concerns Ukrainians right now is security. Street safety, safety in their own homes, safety in schools, safety in kindergartens. The new government will take control of the security situation in Ukraine through all constitutional means and methods. Every Ukrainian citizen should know: A new quality of the Ukrainian police, new approaches guarantee security for every individual and citizen. We are obliged in the short term to immediately reinstate street patrols by law enforcement forces. We must immediately announce that anyone who is on the streets with a gun is those who are persecuted by law. Citizens' safety is question number one. [[Applause]] In particular, I want to point out our external relations. The key task of the new Ukrainian government is European integration. It's a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens and it's an agreement with the European Union. Political, Economic Association Agreement, Comprehensive Free Trade Zone Agreement. Ukraine's future is in Europe. And Ukraine will become part of the European Union. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would also like to address our Russian partners. And once again, it's the partners. We hope that the Russian Federation, first of all, will not violate the Budapest Memorandum, will do everything to ensure that the situation in Ukraine is stable. Under no circumstances will the separatists and former highlanders of Ukraine be supported, against whom crimes of mass murder and crimes against humanity have been committed. First of all, I'm talking about Viktor Yanukovic. [[Applause]] We also address our Russian partners. We need to rebuild a new style of relationships. That relationship when Ukraine, which is moving towards the European Union, is a true partner, a good neighbour, and a country that wants the good of Russia and vice versa. We are asking that the Russian Federation fulfill all our bilateral and multilateral international obligations. We're asking the Russian Federation to invest in Ukraine. And what the Ukrainian people are now expressing, first of all, their support for European integration, second of all, good neighbourly relations with all countries, including Russia, is a testimony to the will of the Ukrainian Parliament, the will of the Ukrainian people, which is enshrined in decisions of Parliament and Ukrainian law. Russians, don't fight us, we're friends, we're partners, we're supposed to go with you! [[Applause]] As far as the worst disaster in Ukraine is concerned, it is corruption. This is the corruption that robbed the state. That is why the new government and this Parliament must immediately decide on the establishment of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Those who lived for national money and lived, those who broke the law, those who took bribes, those who got rich at the expense of the Ukrainian people, first, should be illustrated, secondly. They must be brought to justice by an honest and just court. [[Applause]] Separately by the judicial system. The programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which we ask for to confirm how an over-term document that will enable us to negotiate with Europeans, with international financial institutions, with Russians and with the United States of America, identifies the need to adopt new laws that will allow for the creation of independent courts in Ukraine. Once again, I stress, independent of the will of the President, the will of the government, the will of members of parliament, who depend on only one -- justice and justice, the right and justice required by millions of Ukrainians. Ukrainians must feel that they have the right to live in their country, and the Ukrainian court will stand on the side of the law and the interests of each person. This is Midan’s requirement, and this requirement will be made. [[Applause]] Also, honourable colleagues, Ukraine stands on the threshold of presidential elections. So the task of the new government is to hold honest people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u139	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u140	The task of the new government is to hold fair and transparent elections by the President of Ukraine. Like all elections, they're going to be difficult, but we're going to ensure honesty and transparency, we're going to ensure political competition, and we're going to make sure that whoever gets elected by the Ukrainian people wins, and there's going to be a new legally elected president in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear national deputies, regarding the fate of the new government. I can tell you frankly that, of course, it's a government of political kamikaze, but I can assure you that everything we can do, everything we can do for Ukraine will be done. I can assure you that this government, regardless of the challenges and the extreme situation, will work for our unity, our stability, peace and harmony in the country. I am officially stating that I am not going to run to the Presidents and that I am giving the mandate of a deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, the government is just an organ, an organ that appoints Parliament. And jobs are just possibilities. We can only do and save our country if we all believe. I believe we have the strength. I believe we have wisdom. I believe that we have unity. God and Ukraine are with us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u141	Let's support the candidate. [[Applause]] I'm asking you to sit down. And now we have 10 minutes to ask the candidate for Prime Minister's office. I can see it in the mood of the MPs that there's no need to ask questions. The accents were clearly all placed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, strike insists on questions. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u142	Alexander Valentine's Day, not "BACK" insists on questions. We've announced the procedure -- 10 minutes per question. Now, let's calm down, ask questions for 10 minutes and quietly appoint Arsenija Petrovich Prime Minister of Ukraine. Where do you think you're going? I suggest you sign up for the question right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, let us not disturb the procedure. I think 10 minutes of Ukraine can wait. Please sign up for the question. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u145	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u146	Mikola Catherinechuk, head of the European Party of Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I have a question with you about the signing of the Association Agreement. As you think, in what terms this can be done to ensure that the task of Eromaydan and all who were and all who died for the sake of Ukraine in Europe is accomplished.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u147	Dear Mikolo Dmitrovich! The task of signing an agreement with the European Union is one of the key issues and is the number one issue in the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We now need to hold urgent consultations with the European Union on the signing of the Agreement with the European Union, as the signing of the Agreement provides for a constitutional procedure, as the signing of the Agreement provides for the subjectivity with which the treaty is signed. If the European Union is willing to sign the agreement, we are ready to sign the agreement with the European Union. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to what Ukraine expects. Before the agreement, the second paragraph should be the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] That's what the citizens will feel right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u148	Please, National Deputy Sabi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u149	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u150	Please turn on Alexander Mirny's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u151	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Are you ready as Prime Minister of Ukraine adequately, I emphasize, to respond adequately to what is currently taking place in Crimea? And is there a plan of action to stabilize the currency market situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Alexander. Again with Crimea. Anyone who tries to split Ukraine up is the one who takes the stand against the Ukrainian people and against the Ukrainian state. Attempts are now being made to declare claims for Ukraine’s territorial integrity because of political interests. As a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, I declare: Ukraine will use all legal, constitutional methods to preserve the territorial integrity of the state. Crime is and is and will be part of Ukraine! [[Applause]] In 2001, while serving as the minister of the economy of Crimea, I would now like to turn to the criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u153	Please enable the completion of the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u154	Only one person to turn to. You Ukrainians, we Ukrainians, we are the one Ukrainian people, we will win together. Our unity is a guarantee of the success of the Ukrainian State. And we will be together: Ukraine and Crimea! [[Applause]] As far as your currency market issues are concerned. It is not right when the Prime Minister, perhaps the future, will comment on what is happening at the National Bank of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that according to the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the central bank is an independent body. And government interference with the National Bank is illegal. However, I'll tell you what I see. In 2004, as the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, we faced the same problems, perhaps somewhat smaller ones, but the extent to which we are now in the country’s financial system. The first problem is the critical decline in Ukraine's gold reserves. The second problem is that citizens withdraw their deposits. Then in 2004, despite the fact that the course grew from 5 to 8, we stabilized the course and returned it. And despite the fact that the billions of dollars went out of the banking system and deposits were being made, all 14 by then millions of investors in the banking system have all saved their deposits. What must be done immediately to stabilize the financial system? An application with the International Monetary Fund. Once the IMF program is signed, funds will come to Ukraine's gold reserves, we will stabilize the situation. Now, in the last two days, according to my information, the National Bank is not getting out of the way. That means we're saving every dollar of gold reserves right at the National Bank. The National Bank is now taking urgent action. And it's going to be correct if this is going to be a central bank to calm people down. We're going to do everything we can to stabilize the financial system, we're going to be like the future government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u155	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of national deputy Shulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u156	Vladimir Schulga, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u157	Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u158	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich, wishful thinking, not question. First of all, all the papers, the bills that the new government is about to prepare, work with the Supreme Council committees and involve the public in the industry, so that we can work together and run them quickly through the Supreme Council. And the second. I propose that they, as lawyers, help us get the boys out of jail, help the new government to carry out audits of all the ministries of state procurement for free. And then we'll find the funds, and we'll open up criminal cases that will help clean up the new government. Thank you. I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u159	Thank you very much, Alexandra Volodymyrna, for this offer. And let me go to all the members of the Supreme Council, let me go to the public organizations, to all the experts, to all the people who care about the fate of the country. This government is going to be too hard, I'm asking for your support. Support for anyone who is not indifferent is to support anyone who knows better decisions, to support any decision that will enable the political and economic stability of the state. You've raised a very important question. It's a matter of public procurement. One of the first decisions of the new government that I am asking for the support of Parliament is to amend the Law on State Procurement. That level of looting and corruption that was taking place in public procurement, that level of dissipation of state funds by state monopolies and its companies led these state monopolies to blame billions of dollars of credit, that these state monopolies had nothing to pay for gas and energy resources, and that these state monopolies had become a source of wealth for those who ran ministries and who ran state monopolies. So anti-corruption policy and transparency in public procurement, the introduction, first and foremost, of European standards of transparency for public procurement is our shared task with you. I also address every national MP separately. Any facts of abuse, of corruption that you have in your hands to report directly to me personally, in the event of the appointment of those responsible for the law enforcement system, it is primarily the Minister of Internal Affairs. And the position of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, who will be responsible for a strong and defensive bloc, will be introduced so that everyone who has not yet realized that Ukraine has changed, Ukraine has changed, changed for an honest, transparent and non-corruption authority, knows who is violating the principle, he is in prison, regardless of what party and political power he represents.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, is the time for questions completed, please, is it necessary to make statements from the faction made? There's no need. They insist. Okay. Arsenius Petrovich, I ask you to take your seat, and the deputies to sign up for the factions. Please. Please, from the Party of the Regions, who will be speaking? The People’s Deputy of Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u161	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The position of the faction of the Party of the Regions to date is to help stabilize the situation and not spread the integrity of the State. But against the backdrop of recent events, the new leadership of its rhetoric and the continuation of its actions has allowed for irreparable errors and has pushed for an escalation of the situation. Violence and urban break-up, attacks on dissident deputies, have become commonplace. It is clear that the new power does not succeed but does not respond to human rights violations. In the Supreme Council, immediately without any consultation, the Language Act was passed on your conscience, where half of the population of Ukraine was ignored. Projects for the early dissolution of the regional councils of the South-East regions of Ukraine and the appointment of governors to serve as dictators without local councils have been prepared. There is a daily violation of the Constitution. The new power must understand that, despite and insulting the interests of most of the country's population, it pushes citizens into mistrust and compels them to defend their own rights. Everyone must understand that the continuation of this situation will lead to further criminalization by Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions is making every effort today to avoid an exacerbation of the situation, but without the right decisions on the part of the new authorities, this seems impossible. Against the backdrop of the distribution of posts, people's lives and security cannot be forgotten. Do not make hasty decisions limiting the rights of Ukrainian citizens who think and speak differently from you. I propose that a consensus commission be set up to address today's problems, taking into account the concerns of the entire population on the elimination of acute factors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, we will now continue our performances. The only thing I'm asking you very much is that in the course of the talks, your colleagues, we were very correct in expressing a position that would correspond to reality. We did not accept, Alexander Sergiyovich, the new Language Law, we simply repealed the law. And today, according to Irina Heratschenko's proposal, there was a protocol commission to create an interfractional group, along with the profile committees that are working on a new balanced Language Act, that's the first. Secondly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine works exclusively within the framework of the Constitution and the Ukrainian law. And you and I must now establish a government that will work throughout our country and protect all citizens of Ukraine, regardless of where they live and work. I'm asking you to do the show. [[B in m in s a l in]] Economics. Friends, come on, I'm here again, Alexander Sergiyyovich, after the performances are over, all the lines. All the lines are at the end of the speeches. And so, dear colleagues, from the MP's "Economic Development" group, who will be speaking? Anatoly Kinach, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u163	Honourable National Deputies, the MP's Economic Development Group clearly supports the vitality of re-establishing the strict terms of an effective, purpose-oriented, high-level professional state-level activity of Ukraine's higher executive body, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Our demands are clear: candidates for appointment to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, irrespective of their office, should not go to the government for the sake of a personal political career, especially their own wealth, should not serve through the government structures the interests of the political and financial groups and the severe opposition of corruption, regardless of their surnames and the one who delegated the government to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Secondly, we consider it of utmost importance that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine work with us to work closely with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council and recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine resume the activities of government committees, delegate to government committees of experts, representatives of factions, groups, national deputies. From this the government’s work will be only more transparent, more systematic, and professional. The 2014 State Budget needs to be clearly reviewed, especially in terms of concentration of resources by priority. The provision of social benefits and strict order in unprecedented actions that refer to public procurement in the context of the inadmissibility of corruption. We don't understand when the government and the National Bank work in different planes. The national monetary unit is an integral result of the state of the Ukrainian economy. Therefore, the first step of the newly appointed Cabinet of Ministers is to establish, develop, implement, together with the National Bank and the Supreme Council where necessary, programmes to stabilise the financial system, restore trust in banks, protect the financial rights of Ukrainian citizens. Restoration of real-sector lending. And integration processes. Of course, Ukraine's Euro-Integration is an irreversible process, but we must do everything we can to ensure that integration enables Ukraine to be strengthened as a powerful competitive state, with a scientificly high-tech industry. Therefore, the free trade programme, an association of membership, should take into account all directions for modernizing Ukraine's economy, protecting the internal market. And so there is a chance that Ukraine will have a decent place in the world that we have no doubt about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u164	Alexander Zarubinski, of the Group "The Sovereign European State". Oleg Zarubinski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u165	Please give the word to Igor Jeremei.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u167	Dear Chairman! Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! In November of last year, Ukraine had a historic chance to conclude an association agreement with Europe. This would determine the vector of the country's continued European development. But the dictatorial regime has defiantly and deceitfully stolen this opportunity from our country, and in the Ukrainian people, the hope of living in a European country. For 84 days, the Ukrainian people, in violent opposition to the cost of human life, essentially chose Ukraine’s independence for a second time and virtually ripped it out of its grip. The price of victory is too terrible -- human lives, the lives of the best representatives of the Ukrainian nation. The people proved to be the only one in power and gave politicians the historic opportunity to gain, in fact, build a civilized country. Yesterday, the composition of the government of national trust was agreed upon. We, the non-fractional national MPs, joined in a group called the Sovereign European State. Our MP group confirms its participation in the coalition. We are willing to work and do everything we can to ensure that the state is not only geographically but also, in fact, in the European Union. We are aware of the depth of the economic and political crisis and are ready to help the new government, and to overcome the responsibility of the Ukrainian people. Once again, we emphasize and emphasize that the composition of the government must be determined by the people. And no quotas. On such terms, we entered the coalition. We stand on the fact that the Supreme Council has only enacted laws for the benefit of the people, done so exclusively in a legitimate way. We are in favour of a major reform of the entire structure of government, the implementation of the process of European integration of Ukraine, the detinification of the economy, the introduction of European standards of living. We will be guided solely by the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, who have led the world to unity, courage, willingness to build a developed European state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u168	From the Fatherland faction, who will act? People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u169	Ukrainians, we have survived several months of very responsible Ukraine, very responsible for the future of our nation. We've been able to make huge changes in the country, huge redundancies in our country. But nevertheless, right now we have to say that the danger to Ukraine continues for the Ukrainian state. And these events that are happening in Crimea, we have to admit, this is a scenario that is being implemented in the capital of another state, in Russia, by Kremlin politicians to provoke separatism here in Ukraine, in order to provoke civil opposition here in Ukraine. And these challenges that Ukraine faces today are no less important than those that stood a month and two years ago. Although I am convinced that foreign intelligence, Russian security forces have influenced and tried to influence Ukraine all the time. So today we face another important, responsible challenge. It's very important to us in a short period of time, by reloading power, to choose a legitimate course that could make quick and effective decisions. For Ukraine today, it is vital that the Ukrainian government be approved as soon as possible, that the Minister of Defense and all other forces be approved so that they can act quickly and effectively on the threats that exist, including in the Crimea. Today, the issue of government creation has become a matter of national security and defence. So in this period, we have to forget about all the opposition. We have to forget all the differences that could have been between us yesterday and the day before. All who are concerned with Ukrainian statehood, all who are in pain of the future of our nation, must now unite and leave behind our party discussions or political opposition. Today we must take a firm step forward in addressing the crisis in Ukraine. And this step depends to a large extent on how quickly and effectively we can appoint a government, and we can appoint strong ministers. So I urge everyone, without delay, to vote, to support our officials. The sooner we can confirm the government, the sooner we can come to grips with both economic and national security crises in Ukraine. I urge everyone to work fast. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u170	Who's ready to go? Please, Vitaly Cliché.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u171	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, today we must form a new executive power, and in the country we must adopt a new state of government. We all realize that we needed to put the country in order urgently, to bring the country back to a peaceful life, beginning the reforms that people were looking for. To that end, we all understand that we need responsible authority. It must vindicate the trust of people and Maidan, and by no means repeat the mistakes of the past government. The economic situation today is very difficult, social as well. The West promises to help reform the country. But we can also do something to achieve this goal, pay back the money stolen from the Ukrainians. I think we need to go to Europe, the United States to freeze Yanukovic's accounts and his immediate environment, his family and the people who worked with him, to return the money to Ukraine because it's stolen money. And it's going to be stately, and it's going to be fair first of all. Dear colleagues, we hope that the new government will start reform processes, will also ensure an honest and transparent conduct of democratic elections, presidential elections. But I'm sure we need to make a full picture of the authority by holding parliamentary elections for the term. That's the right thing to do. We've talked about this a long time ago, and that's what people demand. And the last. We can't let the situation in Crimea destabilize today. For years the authorities have not solved the problem of autonomy, and today opposition is being unleashed there, and this may end badly. I'm sure everyone understands that. We need to urgently guarantee the real rights of autonomy and an effective Crimea development programme, an effective programme for the development of tourism infrastructure. Crime has also suffered from the power of Yanukovic and is awaiting change. Let's be consistent. We will be responsible to society, to those who have fought for the change of power, for the renewal of power. People are waiting for that and for us to come with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u172	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u173	People fought for change of power, for honest, transparent, people fought for justice, and it depends on us, Parliamentarians, much. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u174	Please, Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u175	Dear Society, today is an extremely important moment, because the defeated dictatorial regime must now share responsibility for new authority. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union has entered into a new coalition and is ready to share this responsibility. But right now I'd like to go to all Ukrainians, the whole Ukrainian people first. All those who wanted a different life, all those who wanted real, concrete, decisive and swift changes should share with us the same responsibility for the development of a new European, legal, just state. You know, once a Ukrainian nation in a village where someone or a city burned down a house or there was a problem, there was a way out. At that time, the community organized so much, and they did not leave the problem to the one who had it. All of them came together and rebuilt this house. That's exactly what we need to do right now. The state is in a difficult economic situation. We are facing a threat of military intervention, perhaps on the part of the Kremlin. Today we live in a state where national dignity and pride were humiliated. All of this needs to be reinstated, society. Reviving the other spirit of the Ukrainian State. And we can only do this because of a common return to responsibility. The new government should be engaged in the cleansing of authority, the carrying out of illustrations. The new government should immediately contact our Western partners, the guarantors of national independence and the territorial integrity of Ukraine and economic stability. We need to stabilize the bracelet. We need to pass a law on the return of stolen funds and property from abroad. We need to restore this spirit, a spirit of pride and dignity for our nation. Believe me, if we have people's support, if people understand that we need to support new power, we can change the situation in the Ukrainian state very quickly. If there is no such support, it will be very difficult for the authorities. Because of this, the most important society today is to be together. The most important thing is to maintain territorial integrity. Most important, to have faith, our common faith is that together we will be able to build a great, powerful state, where national justice will be, and social solidarity. A country where everyone will feel free. A country where all of us Ukrainians will be masters of this land. And that, hopefully, will be the government, the government that we are now voting for, which we would have with the support of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for this. Can we proceed to the vote? I beg of you, fellow national MPs. The Communists insist on the performance. Adam Ivanovich, I ask very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, especially a small group of people who in this room approves the 10th or 20th Prime Minister! Those who listen to us today say: “How good they are, how well they speak! ” Sadly, however, there is a very different situation outside this room. In the morning, I said, "Stop the saviour." Sadly, it does not stop, but it does worse. And in this room there are all the political forces that can, must, and must influence people not to destroy, not to squander, not to burn, not to really have authority to support the entire Ukrainian people. You and I are aware that, unfortunately, Ukraine is not the only ingredient. It divides roughly in half. And the task of any authority, including the power that is now on its feet, is to do exactly as the previous speakers have said to be supported by the entire people of Ukraine. And to support, we don't just need politics and politics, let's accept, let's say, let's take what we're grateful for -- both pension and medical and other reforms. And one more thing. We've already talked about, I'm stressing again, the faction of Communists is in opposition, the personnel issues you're going to decide for yourself. The only request. Calm down and do at least 25 percent of what has been said here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u178	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the decision to appoint the Prime Minister of Ukraine is taken by the Supreme Council by an open vote. And the Prime Minister is considered elected when the majority of the Ukrainian national deputies voted in favour of such a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! According to articles 85 and 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the draft Decree (registration number 4302) on the appointment of Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine is to be voted on. Please activate the "Council" system and determine how to vote. [[14:50:41]] For 371 [[Applause]] 371 votes are the record number of votes that Parliament has cast as Prime Minister. Welcome, Arsenia Petrovich! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in your presence, I sign the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "About the appointment of Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich as Prime Minister of Ukraine." And I ask him to take a seat in the government's bed. Dear colleagues, in order for no one to have any questions, I would like to remind you that not all ex-government officials who are responsible for the disaster that is taking place in the country have been released. I ask you to include in the agenda Order No. 4300 "On the Liberation of Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Please include this order in the order of the day. Turn on the "Council" system for voting. [[14:52:18]] For 362 Decision taken. I'm going to announce the content of this decree, Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the discharge of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: in connection with the formation of the personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to release Arbusov Sergia Henadijovich from office of First Vice-Prime Minister; Yury Anatoliyovich from office of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine; Wilkova Alexander Yuriovich from office of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine; Gristenka Kostin Janovitch from office of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine; Vicar Mikola Vladimirovich from the post of Minister of Agricultural Policy and Food of Ukraine; Zachary Vitalia Juryovich from the post of Minister of Interior of Ukraine; Klimenak Alexandro Vladimirovich from the post of Minister of Natural Power and Food Development of Ukraine; Zharchenka Vitalia Juryovitch from the post of Minister of Ukraine; Klimenak Alexandro Viktorov As far as I can remember, he was already released. Yes or no? Come on. From the position of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Kozaka Vladimir Vasilovich, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine; Novohatka Leonid Mihajlovich, Minister of Culture of Ukraine; Safiulín Ravil Safovich, Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine; Lebedeva, as I recall, was already elected Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Dmitry's tobacco was released, so we won't do it again. Richer Raisa Vasilovna has already been released from the position of minister of security. Ms. Michael Kostinović, Minister of Industry of Ukraine; Mr. Hennady Pavlovich, Minister of Regional Development of Construction and Housing and Utilities of Ukraine; Mr. Kolobov's Jury of Vladimirovich, Minister of Finance; Mr. Lukash Olen Leonidivna, Minister of Justice of Ukraine; and Ms. Royal Natalija Jurijovna, Minister of Social Policy. We also freed the newborn. Dear colleagues, I ask you, without discussion, let us vote so that we can take this decision with you. Please vote ad juice so that this decision will be taken without discussion. Please vote. [[14:55:02]] For 334 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, determine whether to support this decision by taking it as a basis and as a whole by voting. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[14:55:31]] For 358 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose the next procedure for addressing this important issue, and we are now talking about the most important issue today is the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is a proposal to give the floor to Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatzenyuk to make proposals on the composition of the new Ukrainian government. Is there any suggestion not to discuss this issue, no objection? You have a comment on the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions expressed its position on ensuring stability and real opportunities for the work of the new authority in order for it to take on the responsibility it actually assumed on Saturday, February 22. But the names of candidates for responsible positions of ministers have become known to us only now. We ask for some time so that our faction can discuss the right candidates, even if it's 15-20 minutes so that we can take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk sufficiently reasoned representatives of each candidate, I think this will be an opportunity to hear an argument as to why this candidate is taking up this position, and during this time, honourable colleagues from the faction of the Regions will be able to identify themselves by discussing these candidates. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk of Ukraine. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u181	Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers were formed as never before in the history of Ukraine. But I'd like to start with why there's actually a vote going on right now for the new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and who did what changed power in Ukraine. This was done by the Celestial 100 and millions of people who went out to Midan and chose their freedom. I'm asking you to announce a minute of silence for the deceased on Maidan, for the Celestial 100. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. All the dead, we've all honored, yes, all of them. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The formation of this cabinet of ministers was really not easy. In fact, it is the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers, which combines the demands of the people, the demands of Maidan and the support of the political forces that have now formed a coalition. Allow me to make a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Jarem Vitaly Grigorovich. [[Applause]] A thousand. Welcome to Grigorovitch, please take your seat. After the vote, correct, supported. Jarema Vitali Grigorovich, born in 1963, Ukrainian National Deputy, member of the Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime, General, former Chief of Police of Kiev City. With a high reputation, amazing organizational skills, high trust in law enforcement. General Jarem as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine will be responsible in the government for the rightful and strong bloc and will be the right hand of the Prime Minister. Sich Alexander Maksimovich is Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In 1964, he was born, a national deputy, the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education, worked in local self-government, had great experience, had great knowledge, and would be Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Groisman Vladimir Borisovich is proposed to serve as Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing. Vladimir Borisovich, born in 1978 The city’s head, Winnice, who received the highest result of support in Ukraine at the elections, has carried out such reforms of local self - government in Ukraine that should be carried out throughout the country. He is a model mayor in Ukraine, and we are convinced that Vladimir Groisman will do everything for real self-government, which should correspond to the European Charter in order for it to take place in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak is Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In 1972, the National Deputy of Ukraine for the Sixth Call, head of the Ukrainian Reform Foundation project. This is the person who announced the fight against corruption in Ukraine two years ago, and it was he who revealed the corruption in the energy sector that took place in the purchase of higher ones. It was him, he knows how to work, he's responsible, he's decent, and so there's an offer to support him. [[Applause]] Musei Oleg Stepanovich is Minister of Health. [[Applause]] He does not need to be represented. 90 days and nights, he pulled out the wounded, he saved the people, he led the medical service in Maidan. He was born in 1965, a doctor, president of the All-Ukrainian Medical Society, vice president of the World Federation of Ukrainian Medical Associations. He led the service, he saved thousands of people. [[Applause]] Avakov Arsen Borisovich is Minister of Interior of Ukraine. In 1964, he was born, a national deputy of Ukraine, former head of the administration of the Kharkiv region. He has a very significant experience. And it faces a very complex task of the new Ukrainian police, which provides security for Ukrainian citizens. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich is the Minister of Infrastructure. In 1976, he was born a member of the Tax and Customs Committee. Slupak Alexander Vitaliovich. He's got a lot of work ahead of him, Ukraine's finance minister. This person has an incredible experience in the system of government. For one thing, Alexander Schlapak was the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, deputy head of the National Bank of Ukraine, head of the State Treasury of Ukraine. Please support the Minister of Finance. [[Applause]] She is proposed to be Minister of Social Policy of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. A member of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Ludmila Denisov, former Minister of Social Policy, is about to face an incredible burden: it's salary, it's pensions, it's social pay at an empty execution. It will need, like the entire government, your support. Petrenko Pavlov Dmitrović is the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. [[Applause]] It's not just the National Deputy of Ukraine, it's not just a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, it's a person who's been pulling people out of the Cossacks day and night; it's a person who's been going to court and doing everything he can to get thousands of Ukrainians out. And you've made this freedom. Now we have to do it for millions. [[Applause]] Nietzschek Eugene Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Eugene Nietschuk. [[Flushing]] Eugene Nietzschek doesn't need to be represented. Minister of Culture of Ukraine. 1972 was the birth of a Ukrainian actor in theatre and film, a well - deserved artist in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Sheremet Pavel Mikhajlovich, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, is proposed. In 1971 he was born, founder of the Kyiv-Magilian Business School, president of the Kyiv School of Economics. He faces economic challenges. It has Western European standards, and we have very high expectations for a new minister of economic development and trade. Please be supportive. [[Applause]] Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food, Switzerland Igor Aleksandrovich. National deputy of Ukraine, member of the Committee on Rules of Law and Activity. Please be supportive. [[Applause]] The Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources is Mohnik Andry Volodymyrovich. National MP of Ukraine, member of the Legal Policy Committee. Please be supportive. [[Applause]] The Minister of Youth and Sports is Bulatov Dmitry Sergiyovich. In 1978, he was born, a Ukrainian public activist, head of the Social Responsible Society, leader of Automaidan. Automidan's leader should be the leader of Ukrainian youth. [[Applause]] Minister of Energy and Coal Industry: Sold Yuri Vasilovich. In 1959, he was born. Former Minister of Fuel and Energy from 2007 to 2010, Ukrainian Energy. It faces the task of adapting the Ukrainian energy system to the requirements of the European Charter of the Third Energy Package and in general saving Ukraine's energy security. Please be supportive. [[Applause]] And one of the most important areas, what needs reform and assistance, is the highest capital of Ukraine, is knowledge. Without education and knowledge, we will not be able to secure the future of the country. These are our children, this is our future, these are high standards and the quality of Ukrainian education. So the person responsible for the highest and most important capital in Ukraine is knowledge. The Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine is Ms. Sergey Miranovic. 1965, President of the National University of Kiev-Magilian Academy. Please be supportive. [[Applause]] Sir, the report has been completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, you have heard the presentation of the Prime Minister's composition of the next future government. You've heard a brief account of each of the candidates for the post of ministers of the new government. And you can see that most of the candidates are not part of any political party, but they are, like all the others who are members of these parties, experts who are able to work in extreme conditions and carry out their duties honestly. According to articles 85 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the proposal to appoint members of the Cabinet of Ministers is put to the vote on the list proposed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine (this is Decree No. 4305). Please, Your Honor, determine this order by voting. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[15:11:42]] For 331 Decision taken. Ukraine has a new government! [[Applause]] Honorable national MPs, we wish the new government a dignified responsibility. But we have yet to complete the formation of the government. Dear colleagues, please let's finish the formation of the government, and then I'll be able to ask a question or comment on these events. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85, 106 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine are appointed by the Supreme Council for the submission of the President of Ukraine. I am acting as the Acting President in accordance with these articles of the Constitution. to be assigned. I'm asking you, colleagues, let's finish the job and then the government will work with the people's deputies. Please take your seats, and we will finish our work, and we will do our duty. I repeat that in accordance with articles 85, 106, 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I have been appointed Minister of Defence of Ukraine Admiral Igor Tenjuh. [[Applause]] A man who dedicated her life to the Armed Forces, who formed the Armed Forces of Ukraine. In addition, a proposal was made to appoint a foreign minister, Andrija Decyce, as Ukraine’s minister of foreign affairs. [[Applause]] A person who, during the total demoralization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, took responsibility by organizing and directing a team of ministries. Dear colleagues, can we put these candidates to the vote? We can. I ask for each candidate to be voted on separately. There is a decree (4303) concerning the appointment (colleagues, I will tell you everything) of the foreign minister Andrija Bogdanović Dešćice. Please support Decree No. 4303 by voting. Please turn on the "Race" system. I'd like you to identify your national MPs. [[15:15:13]] For 322 Decision taken. Welcome to the Foreign Minister. A decree (4304) regarding the appointment of Igor Tenyukh as minister of defense is brought before you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this decision and determine how to vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[15:15:50.]] For 326 Decision taken. We welcome the responsibility of the Secretary of Defense. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, you and I have formed a government. I'd like the government to read and accept the oath now. Please, Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u183	An oath from a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: "Aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. Strengthen Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence Defending the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen. Taking care of the welfare of the Ukrainian people, the constant, democratic development of society." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, every government official comes out and reads the oath, or are we still going to have him sign it? Everyone? Dear colleagues, I am convinced that each of them will perform the oath and must sign it now. Please, every government official signs the oath. And I ask Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk to come to the parliamentary rostrum to present the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to find the first and responsible steps of the new government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u185	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, the project of the program has been handed out. A brief first session of the government has just taken place, and the programs have been approved. I put forward the main positions in my nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of the programme to stabilize the situation in the country immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-27-m0.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, you are all given a program of activity for the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main programme was presented in a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I ask that the Supreme Council approve the Cabinet's Programme of Action now. Please decide how to vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[15:19:09]] For 294 Program approved. We have a government, we have a program for the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to get to it now. Ladies and gentlemen, we have carried out the tasks that the Ukrainian people have set before us today. The main thing we did today was to appoint the Prime Minister and members of the new Ukrainian government. The Supreme Council has adopted very important laws that will allow both the Cabinet of Ministers and local administrations to work. This is a very important step towards stabilizing the situation in Ukraine and restoring our European path, building a strong, powerful, democratic Ukraine. Thank you all for your work. We're taking a break until 10:00 tomorrow morning.
