ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please sit down, dear fellows. I would like to remind you that before the break, we have considered the question of draft regulation No. 3647 and should now be determined by voting on its adoption. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Tomenka while the MPs sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to pay attention to yours and our representatives of the law enforcement agencies: today it was about the need to temporarily suspend the broadcast of a series of Russian channels that became channels of war, aggression and lies. And I want to inform you that there are all the right reasons for today. To this end, we have made an appropriate appeal on the basis of the monitoring of the National Television and Radio Council, which is the appropriate decision of the government. Therefore, I, Alexandre Valentinovich, ask you to prepare such a request to the Attorney General’s Office, who is obliged to monitor the implementation by the providers of the relevant decision to suspend the broadcasting of five Russian channels, which are channels of lies and war. Second position. To direct the Attorney General’s Office to respond to cases of defamation of national symbols, since the current legislation criminalizes the abuse of state symbols.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u3	Thank you. I'm asking you to make an appointment on the basis of a statement made by the People's Deputy Tomenka. Dear colleagues, can we put to the vote a draft Decree 3647? We've already discussed it, fellow dignitaries, and it was possible for all the national deputies to speak on this issue. I'm going to remind you that this is a project to take the city of Burstin in the Galician region of Ivano-Frankiv region. No objections? We just, I remind you, haven't been able to vote. Colleagues, may I put it to a vote? I can. Please adopt Decree-Law No. 3647 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:05:10]] For 202 202 votes, no decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the faction leaders. Now you and I are going to discuss some very important laws. In principle, the laws on which the fate of Ukrainian citizens has been unlawfully executed depend. We will now discuss the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian National Guard Act. And I promise you, Your Honor, including, I call on those who formed the coalition, those who consider themselves to be the hero of Maidan, that all the names of whose deputies will not be revealed during the vote, will be named from the stage of Maidan. And please explain what you've been doing when you can't organize your factions. Dear colleagues, I ask you now to return to the law that has to do with political repression. I'll remind you that you and I have considered the Law (4271). And in the course of our consideration of this issue, you have been entrusted with the task of assigning the profile committee headed by Andri Anatoliyevich Kožemjakin, to clarify with the prosecutor’s office, with the Ministry of Justice the names of those people around whom citizens were asked to use their decisions illegally, namely, that these decisions were made on political grounds. We have the need, in accordance with article 131 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to clarify the list of persons to whom decisions on amnesty have been made. Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich, I ask you to come to the rostrum and inform the Supreme Council on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u4	Good afternoon, Reverend Head and distinguished national MPs! On February 27, 2014, a bill was passed, Ukraine’s Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine on the Full Rehabilitation of Political Prisoners, No. 4271. The committee at its meeting recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for the first reading, and that the second reading of the dates of 2-3 days be completed. Sadly, we were unable to do so, remember, we accepted it in general. Therefore, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was invited to entrust the Main Committee with the task of analysing the surnames and, if available, to make proposals to supplement the list of persons to whom the law would apply. This included all the names that were announced by the rapporteur for the bill by the national deputy of Láško, the national deputies of Switzerland, Illenk, Shufrich, and Dubyl. This was also true of the proposals made by other national deputies who submitted written nominations to include them in the draft Law and that they were to be heard by a committee reporter. In view of the complexity of the issue, the committee established a working group with the participation of members of the committee, representatives of the Attorney General’s Office, the Ministry of Penitentiary, the Office of the Ministers for Anticorruption Policy, investigative bodies, the self - defense of Maidan, the Committee for the Liberation of Prisoners, the Automaidan, the Right Sector and others to conduct a thorough analysis of each person’s political motivation for criminal persecution. The working group met from March 6 to 7, this year, with the participation of all the members of the working group. The proposals of the working group were considered and approved by the committee today at 12 p.m. unanimously, that of the 29 people who were reported by the rapporteur of Bill 4721 by the national deputy of Ukraine Lášk, two persons, Shamanov and Bagherov, and three of the 13 who were proposed to be added to the list, namely: Bagrics, Markov, Danilov, cannot be considered as being politically motivated by criminal persecution. Also, it has been decided not to include Babinchev and his associates in the case of Titsky and Lazarenka, since criminal conduct against them in connection with the newly discovered circumstances has been closed in the absence of a crime, according to a report by the Office of the Attorney General. There are no more criminal cases. Thus, the committee proposes not to include in the law the name of the citizens: Shamanova A.I., Bagirova A.V., Bagriceva M.M., Markova I.O. and Daniel’s V.M. – as such, the criminal persecution of which is not politically motivated. Of the 29 people who were interviewed by the rapporteur of the bill, three persons have accomplices, namely: Hannenko — accomplices: Danilov, Pisartsov, Nikonenko. He also has Kravchun’s accomplice. And the narrator has an accomplice to Tangaluk. Thus, in applying the amnesty to Hannenka, Unicornka, Nastavajka and Babintsova, a similar amnesty must be applied to seven of their accomplices, as well as to the announcements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies at the plenary meeting on 27.02.2014 according to the transcripts of the plenary sessions: Djomina Sergija Sergiyovich, Gartonova Antona Viktorovich, Fedorchenka Evgen Valeriovich. It is also proposed to vote further on the inclusion in the text of the Ukrainian law, proposed by the Ukrainian National Deputies, of candidates for inclusion in the draft law, and that it was intended to be a report by the committee at the plenary meeting on 27.02.2014: Sobolovska Anatolia Igorevich, Golovin Maxim Valentinović, Alexandrova Sergiyovič, Alexandry Yuriovich, Podilski Timothy Valeriyovich. Paragraph 1 of section P of the law "Final Positions" should be laid out in an edition adopted on 27.02.2014, taking into account the proposed changes and additions according to the comparative table given to the National Deputies. Dear colleagues! In the morning, you know, representatives of the Rehabilitation Committee, as well as representatives of the self-defence of Maidan, handed out the following cards: "For the integrity of the list of political prisoners." 34 prisoners today are in the compound and are to be amnesty and rehabilitated. Today, we have 34 prisoners on our list. I ask you all to vote on these clarifications and amendments. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u5	Andriy Anatoliyovich, please stay in the rostrum because I can see your hands raised so that you can comment or answer the question. Please, come on. A lot of hands, I'm asking you to sign up for factions. I'll give the non-fractional one a word, too. Please. Please sign up. National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u6	I voted in favour as a member of this committee, a committee headed by Mr. Andrew. But I have a question. I find it unacceptable to include in the list of political prisoners, such as criminal persecution against whom they are politically motivated. They're deleted, they're 5 people. Mr. Andrey made that clear. But I feel that it is necessary to conduct a service investigation and to find out which one of the deputies has committed the inaccuracies and failed the nationals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u9	Turn on the microphone of Andrew Illenck, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, there's been a bit of a mistake here. We should not delete it, but leave Babensov on this list, as well as the people who went through this case, Titsky and Lazarenko. Because they had been convicted by the court and had even been sentenced by an appeal authority in their case, precisely on a politically motivated case. So if a criminal case is closed, it doesn't remove and rehabilitate them. So I suggest you include them on this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u11	Andrew Anatolyevich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u12	The thing is, really, I agree with Mr. Illenk. Alexander Valentine's Day, because, indeed, the Attorney General's Office, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs at the time of the group's work, they confirmed this information, and it really concerns Mr. Bagrentsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u13	I see. I mean, even though they're on the loose, do they still need to be included for rehabilitation? The situation was understandable. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u14	I give the floor to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u15	Turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear Andrew Anatolyovich, I have no doubt as to whether there are any objections to your competence as to the competence of committee members. That's my question. What is the legitimacy of these decisions that you are now proposing? You're proposing very specific names of people. Is the committee empowered to identify specific people? Is that really the prerogative of those organs that are already in force in Ukraine? Where there are appointed leaders. It's about the Attorney General, it's about those who are responsible for their job, who have to offer names. Maybe it's the committee to do it or not? I don't know these people, for example. Why should I vote? I'm willing to rehabilitate everyone. But who? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u17	Dear Mr. Oleg, I fully agree with you that this is a very difficult and unpleasant mission that was taken over today by a committee and a group that was created under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council. The point is that we have already voted on this bill. But according to article 131 of the Rules, we simply provide clarifications and additions so that this list is correct and that all law enforcement agencies that today have a bearing on the investigation of crimes against those who have come here will explain whether this decision is objective or not. So I want to tell you that two days have been unprecedented, let's say, meetings of this group, especially I've never seen people arguing and seeking the truth, the public, representatives of the Rehabilitation Committee, as well as national deputies and law enforcement. But all of them unanimously, all 25 of them, voted in favour. And I think it's objective today. Although I agree with you, the committee should not make such decisions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this was our decision, and the committee here has been doing more of a coordinating function, because the Attorney General's Office has been working on it, and other organs of justice that are responsible for this issue have been working on it. Please, Mr. Zarubinski has already spoken, I understand. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u19	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u20	Turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u21	Thank you. I, first of all, would like to appeal to those people who are listening to the broadcast of the Supreme Council meeting at the Supreme Council and to point out that it is really important that this issue has been passed by the committee, although obviously we must insist that all decisions that will be wrong, unjust, be considered in courts to ensure that those judges who have made wrong decisions are given a qualified and criminal responsibility. And so to those people who are standing next to the Supreme Council and to all of us, that we are now entering a somewhat dangerous period that we do not have the right, in fact, colleagues, not to count, we should not discredit the ideas of Maidan and allow revolutionary purpose to transform such important decisions into what is happening. Therefore, it is vital that we be heard by those who are standing there. Obviously we have to walk by law, move only by law. It is good that political prisoners today will be released. But we must continue to go back to an irreprehensible decision of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Irina. I want to support you, and I want to say the following. You know, even after the meeting of the working group, there have been a lot of appeals from national deputies about all the other prisoners today who may be in need of rehabilitation and amnesty. But we have made a decision, and we ask that the Supreme Council support us to do so by the Attorney General's Office and the courts. And we're asking a committee of the Attorney General's Office to consider all the 15 names that came to the committee today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u23	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on this bill, I would like to point out a point of view, because the head of honour spoke of the fact that, in the order of article 131 of the Ukrainian Act, "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". But, colleagues, there is no editorial detail here. These issues need to be addressed in a separate bill. This is a violation of the Ukrainian Rules Act, and we cannot go back to reducing the number of persons in the order of article 131. This is illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, the lawyers of the Supreme Council have considered this issue, and the point is that we are actually clarifying one article. This article contained a list of names reported today by Andriy Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, the people’s national deputy of Labunsk is very much in demand of non-factionists. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u26	Andriy Anatoliyovich, I was speaking to you about the last name of Nostawika. I don't know how it happened, but I have a hotline phone for voters in my region, and I got a call from a woman who introduced herself to a dead woman. Have you considered the committee’s question regarding this last name? When I picked up what the press had written, the name there was suspected of murder in 115 articles. And the question is, there's a young child and a woman left. Then I have a question: Have you considered the question about this person? If considered, are law enforcement officials involved in criminal liability? I know it's the Landway kid, he's from the children's house, he's alone. And it was very convenient, well, it could have been a very convenient person to write this crime down. I'd like to ask you, have you considered this? Because someone has to bear the same responsibility. Or.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u27	Dear Angelica Victorian, I'd like to inform you that Mr. Nadwik was. It was a very, let's say, four hours of discussion. And all the representatives of the law enforcement agencies that were present: The Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as representatives of the Rehabilitation Committee, which was created in Maidan -- they proved to both members of the committee and all those present, and in the presence of lawyers that today there is no evidence of Mr. Nadwik's guilt. Because all they have is that they are detained and allegedly suspected of committing a crime. So I think you're right about what needs to be done. This will be the committee’s appeal, and we have already prepared it, for the investigators, for the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for those who have done so and for those who have actually committed this service crime, and why innocent people have been drawn to it, they have been charged. So, indeed, crime is very serious, and with such things, as they say, they are not joking. But I think justice will be established in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u28	Please turn on the microphone of the Robber People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u29	Thank you, Mr. Head. Andriy Anatolyovich, allow me to clarify the transcript. The so-called Podlisni group, namely: Timothy Podlisni, Alexander the Great, Maxim Golovin and Sergey Alexander, are included in the group for today's Amnesty and Rehabilitation vote. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u30	Thank you very much, Olesia, for asking. Because the representatives of the Attorney General's Office at the meeting of the group, in fact, and the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs insisted on the continuation and conclusion of this case, well, this pretrial investigation of these persons. But I think that, as the head of the committee, like the person who was directly involved in these issues, I support a working group that still insisted and voted that these people be included in this law, and that decision is made today. They were rehabilitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u31	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The list we voted on includes the name Andrija Shamanova. I've been doing this for over three years. This is a person who, in a falsified criminal case, sits in one of the pre - Doña CISAs that are abused. To this day, no judgment, nothing. This is the person who is to be released immediately, and the Supreme Council has made a decision on this. I ask you not to delete, I insist that this name not be removed from the list. I'm responsible for my words to anyone. I've been doing this for three years. Next. I propose to include in the list of prisoners who are under rehabilitation the former minister of economy, Bogdan Danilishin, against whom criminal cases have been unlawfully committed, as well as the former head of the State Customs Service, Anatolia Makarenko, who served no time on forged criminal matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I'll answer that question. The issue was that the unanimous decision of the Committee for the Protection of Prisoners, Public Organizations, the representatives of Maidan had been adopted, and the decision had been taken, not by representatives of law enforcement agencies and members of the committee. They insisted very actively. They believe that Mr. Shamanov cannot be considered to be a criminal persecution of which he is politically motivated. And the Attorney General's office was tasked with bringing the case under personal control. I would like to remind you that the commission of inquiry in the Donetsk region conducted a pretrial investigation into the criminal offence of 05.02.2011 in respect of Shamanov and Lacomov, on the basis of the fact of the demand for money from Visnik, which, on their charge under the second part of article 189 of Ukraine, is being sent to the Mining District Court of Makiev for consideration. That's how it is today. So if the hall, Alexander Valentinovich, makes a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u34	Andriy Anatoliyovich, about Makarenko, Yvashchenka, Danilishina, is there no reason to include them on this list?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u35	Alexander Valentinovich, the point is, once again, I'm saying that Mr. Zarubinsky has noticed today that the committee can't take on this and the groups. So if you ask the question to expand this list for the Hall, if the Hall votes, that's the decision of the Supreme Council. But I think we don't have to go through this bill and re-implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u36	Please turn on the microphone and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u37	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the honourable ones present! For the former government officials, I registered Bill No. 4367. And there they are included in the list and the customs of all, and Daniel, and Gurgios, and the performing duties of Yvashchenko, all those of our officers who were undeservedly condemned or who were subject to criminal persecution under articles 364, 365. And I ask, Your Honor Alexander Valentine's Day, on this issue, that this bill also be considered this week for these former officials who were unjustly imprisoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u38	This is a separate project we have, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u39	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u40	There's a separate project, let's put it in the agenda, I fully support its acceptance. Dear colleagues, let's make a decision, Andriy Anatolyevich. We discussed the matter in detail. We will also vote today, with you honourable colleagues, on inclusion in the agenda, and I hope that on Thursday we will adopt the Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Courts, Illegal Judiciality, or Judicial Inviolability. This is true of those who are not necessarily politically motivated but who have been victims or bribes in the judicial system, or other problems related to the fact that the last few years of judicial action in Ukraine have not been practical, independent, honest. And this is a colossal problem that we need to solve. That is why, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to support the work carried out by the committee and to now vote against the list announced by Andriy Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Please, there is a objection, turn on the microphone of Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u41	You're the presiding officer! Dear colleagues! I realize that not all names are on this list, considering that not all political prisoners may have distributed the ideology that was acceptable to Maidan. Yet, there is one name that the opposition leaders themselves recognized as the political prisoner of the Yanukovic regime. This is about Igor Markov. This, I reiterate, is clearly the question raised by your leaders that the person who opposed Yanukovic was sent to prison. He today has the right to be rehabilitated under this law. I ask you to be objective and to bring the name Igor Markov to this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a word with you on this matter? I see your hands, dear fellows, don't need to drop your hands. The point is, I'm going to say my position. I also believe that Markov, in spite of his political position, was thrown for playing by Yanukovich's direction, not by the decision of the Henprocuratorium or the judicial system, which simply formed this decision. But, dear colleagues, I ask that we follow the decisions we have made. We have many hands that the MPs want to make other names for this law. We agreed with you that we're only voting on the names that went through the forensics of the Attorney General's Office, the committee, the Ministry of Justice. In case we start to include this in a voice right now, we're going to have an infinite process again, Nestor Ivanovich, an endless process. And so I ask now, after we have voted this law, you and I will include in the agenda the Rehabilitation Act of persons who have been unlawfully convicted. And on this issue, we will consider in detail all the proposals, not just MPs, colleagues, but thousands and tens of thousands of citizens who have suffered from the collapse of the judicial system and will resolve the issue. Colleagues, please, from the voice, let's not include any more names. Clarification, please. MP Shufrich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u43	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I take the position that the names that have not been discussed on the committee will not be included. But there are three names: the Macedonian, the Golovin and the Underdog -- who are suspected of kidnapping our colleague's son, who unfortunately died, Lisa's. And now they're going to be rehabilitated. I ask those three names to be excluded and allow the prosecution to carry out investigations to the end, not to relieve them of their responsibility under this law. These three are suspected of kidnapping and demanding money for his return. I'm asking these three names not to embarrass this list, exclude it and let the prosecution finish the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u44	Andriy Anatoliyovich, please comment. We'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u45	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I have already answered this question, in answer to the Labour People's Chamber, and I think that the decision today is a group that is unitedly supported by the committee, and there are representatives of the Party of the Regions on this committee, and they have all supported this decision. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u46	So these people don't have anything to do with kidnapping, do they?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u47	It wasn't proved by the Attorney General's Office and the MPS that these people were really involved in this crime. So the decision was taken by the group and it was voted to include them in the list. I think we need to take a risk and vote. And we're preparing now, you know, the Amnesty and Rehabilitation Act. All the others who have not been included in this bill on individual amnesty will be included in the bill on amnesty in general, state-wide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this in detail. I ask that we now take a decision to confirm by voting the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine on the Full Rehabilitation of Political Prisoners, taking into account the clarifications that Cosemiakin has announced on the basis of the committee's decision. Please vote in favour of the law in general with all the details. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Please be supportive. [[16:33:39]] For 235 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we must now accept equally important questions, namely, it was now an example when we discussed the illegal use of the judicial system, when the name of Ukraine was used to condemn people who were innocent of crime. And unfortunately, Ukraine’s judicial system was deformed and virtually destroyed. And one of the main tasks of the new authority and ours, including you, because we have a responsibility for it, is to restore it. The restoration of the judicial system in Ukraine, the restoration of justice in Ukraine, is what our citizens expect. Therefore, my fellow Members, we have a proposal: to include in the agenda the Rehabilitation Act of persons who have been illegally convicted, a project that takes into account not only political repression, but also the illegal application of justice in general. You know, there have been turning points in the country's history, especially after the communist regime broke down, when there were commissions that were looking at complaints about the illegal use of sanctions by the Attorney General's Office, court decisions, etc. But these committees, which include highly qualified professionals that involve people who are trusted by society, but they don't make decisions about rehabilitation. On the basis of their conclusion, this question will be considered by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And he alone has the right to make a final decision on the basis of the conclusion to be reached by the commission that will be created after we have passed this law. With regard to the second law, which also relates to the judicial system, the restoration of confidence in Ukraine's judicial system. I wanted to ask the members of the strike faction who said that the law should be worked out before it was put into the order of the day. Can we, Vitaly Volodymyrovich, still put this law in order of the day? We can't. So we'll work on Thursday. I'd like to ask the Ministry of Justice, along with the members of the strike faction, who want to participate in the drafting of this law, and with the non-fractional, to work on it by Thursday. It's desirable that you go out on a project today, some kind of amendment, so that you can go through the committee. Ukraine is awaiting that decision. Dear colleagues, I appeal to you to be responsible and worthy of the trust of the Ukrainian people. Colleagues, then 4378, at the request of the strike faction, we don't put in order of the day. But together with the Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons Condemned, it is essential for us in principle, and we talked about this in the morning session, to include in the order of the day the draft Law on the National Guard of Ukraine, as well as the adoption of this law of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts. And it is in the package that these laws must be adopted, because one law requires changes to other laws. I beg of you, fellows of honor! We'll include it at the end of the session. I ask that you and I now include in the agenda of our session tomorrow, before the committee, and on Thursday, we have the opportunity to make a decision by voting on draft laws: 4389 is the draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons Unlawfully Condemned; draft Law on the National Guard of Ukraine (4393 registration number); and draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (No. 4394). Can I put it to a vote for inclusion in the agenda? I can. Please, Your Honor, support and determine how to vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[16:38:19]] For 237 Decision taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, I very much ask the committees of profile, without delay, to consider these issues and to allow the Supreme Council to decide on Thursday on these issues. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u49	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! The strike faction is calling for an end to the rape of Ukrainian MPs and the inclusion of draft laws that the MPs have not seen. We're willing to support smart decisions, but one of the draft laws. It was given literally a few minutes ago. We were unable to read these documents. There is a request to follow procedures. Deputies should be familiar with documents that are included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u50	That's why, Mr. People's MP, we're not discussing these issues today, and we're allowing not only the MPs to study draft legislation, but also the committee's profile to consider them so that we can decide with you on Thursday. With regard to these questions, respectable Victor Mikhailovich, these questions do not require agitation. On these issues, the Russian Federation’s armed forces are agitating. Please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't call any last names. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on MP Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u51	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I have a great request that you, as Head of the Supreme Council, do not comment on the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies. When I spoke and spoke, I was not talking about the National Guard Act. Sorry, this is about the laws by which you predict the creation of threes that have the right to decide the fate of many millions of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! I ask you to continue to follow the order of the day that we have approved. The draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "Legislative Information Society Development in Ukraine" is now under consideration. Please don't vote, it's the agenda, it's on. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Information and Information Technology of the Omelchenk. Please. There's a proposition, I'm the only one who can't see the head of the committee, and I don't see a reporter on that. Please turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u53	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we do not deny such parliamentary hearings. But given that a number of issues highlighted in the consideration of these are directly related to subjects of knowledge of two other committees — the Committee on Education and the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. We would ask you to make a clear statement in the vote that three committees are involved in the organization of parliamentary hearings. The committee that you announced, the committee that I represent, from freedom and word and information, and the committee that Lilia Greenevich represents, from education. And we three committees would have prepared such parliamentary hearings at a high level. And second position, Alexander Valentinovich. I'd be back. It's like the public's already gathered. If we were to unite the Carnation with Burstin and the northernmost city of Novgorod-Sversky, we would vote in favour of two decrees without discussion. And third position, Alexander Valentinovich. Here the public asks you to remind the members of the government that the Constitution of Ukraine is in force. Let them write their statements and give their mandates, then the votes will be enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u54	Thanks for the offer. I also, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, appealed to the members of the government and asked them not later than Thursday to write statements concerning the formation of their parliamentary powers. With regard to the proposals of Mikola Tomenka. I'm going to the session room. Dear colleagues! Can we vote on parliamentary hearings with a proposal announced by the committee's chairman, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko? For the preparation of these parliamentary hearings to be attended by not one Committee on Information, but also on science and education, as well as on freedom of speech. No objections? Taking into account this proposal to support the decision. Please vote. Decree No. 2387a, as a whole. Please, on parliamentary hearings, please vote. [[16:43:31]] For 239. Decision taken. And now I am approached by the distinguished national deputy Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. And he is very much asking to return to a question that, unfortunately, was not voted in the morning session. It's a law that everyone has supported, but it's not enough for technical reasons, I hope, voices. This is the draft Law (2664) on the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils, rural, rural, and urban heads. We discussed it in detail. Can I ask ad hoc to come back to this question? I can. Please vote back on this matter. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Colleagues, we vote. [[16:44:26]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this in detail. Let's turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Knazevitch and be determined. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u55	Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to vote with a reduction of half the time of preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u56	I mean, are we all ready to accept it? Not ready. Okay. Dear colleagues, let's take this law as a basis, and then we'll make a decision on a reduced procedure to comply with the Rules. Please, Your Honor, support Bill 2664, whose name I have announced. Please activate the "Council" system. We discussed it. Discussed. Discussed. That's what I'm talking about, voting now. Please include the "Council" system and support this bill as a basis. [[16:45:30.]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in favour of a reduced procedure for the consideration of this bill on the profiling committee. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, the committee says that the law is not yet ready. Turn on the prince, the author of the law microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to vote on this law as a whole, given that it does not reflect the possibility of holding local and presidential elections at the same time. We will introduce these amendments to our second reading, which will allow us to save almost a billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, money is a very serious question. So let us heed the counsel. And by taking it as a basis, we will now vote on a simplified procedure for addressing this issue in a profile committee. Please be supportive. Turn on the "Council" system for voting. [[16:46:37]] For 218. Dear colleagues, I ask you to try to vote again, and I'll explain why. We have very little time left to unify the presidential elections and elections to the local councils. This will save, indeed, a very serious amount of money. I'm asking you, Your Honor, let's support the proposal for a reduced procedure for dealing with this issue on the committee. Please, I understand that for technical reasons we have not been able to vote. Please vote again, come back. Then we'll follow the Rules. Return to the vote. Please support the proposals, please return to the vote on the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, let's work. [[16:47:30.]] For 230 Decision taken. Now let's vote for the simplified procedure. Guys, please hold. Please turn on the "Race" system, we vote. [[16:47:49]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you and I have considered very important matters. And now there's a call from local councils that haven't been considered in a long time by our Parliament, but there's a proposal that we're going to look at these issues immediately and look at them all in a simplified manner. Or let's talk about it in the first place. There are questions related to the name of villages, villages, and cities. Why don't we just talk about it? No discussion. Let's support this proposal and these are important for local self-government and for our citizens, but they're short, they're clear by content for all, we're voting without discussion. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal and vote on these projects without discussion. Please vote. [[16:48:59]] For 239. Thank you, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, I'm going to call the number of the decree and read its contents. Decree No. 3218 is a draft decree to rename the village of Mala Tarasovka in the Brovarsky district of Kyiv. The committee project was presented in 10.09.2013. Do you understand the meaning of the decree? I see. Please be supportive. Please vote on the basis of Project 3218 as a whole. [[16:49:39]] For 237 Decision taken, thank you. The next project is Project No. 3875. Project of a decree to rename the village of Bistrica Drogbytsky district of Lviv. No questions or comments? Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:50:12]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. Draft Decree No. 3876 on the renaming of the village of Interirich of the Mliny region of the Plain region. Not Mezigiriya — Mezirićya, respected colleagues. Any questions about this project? I won't. Please support the vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. And take it as a foundation as a whole. [[16:50:54]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to return and now to vote back on a question that we, not too much regret, were unable to accept at the morning session and moved to the meeting that we are currently holding -- 3647. We didn't accept it, did we? Did we take it or not, colleagues? They didn't. There's an offer to go back to that question. Draft Decision on the assignment of the city of Burstin in the Galician district of Ivano-Frankiv region to the category of cities of regional importance. Please, Your Honor, return to this question. Please vote. [[16:51:48]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now propose to put to the vote to take this decision as a basis and as a whole. Please activate the "Council" system and determine how to vote. On the basis and overall, Project 3647. [[16:52:19]] For 245 Decision taken. Hello. Dear colleagues, the draft of Decree No. 3878 on the assignment of the city of Novgorod-Siberian Novgorod region of Montenegro to the category of cities of regional importance. Dear colleagues, do you understand the contents of the project? Understood. There is a proposal to accept as a whole. Please vote. [[16:52:55]] For 238. Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, draft Decree No. 3524 on the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Korosten and the District of Žitomir. Any questions about this project? I won't. There is a proposal to accept as a whole. Please vote on Project No. 3524. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:53:34]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are now under consideration with the draft Ordinance on the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Ukraine's participation in activities in the maintenance of international peace and security in 2012. Dear colleagues, under the reduced procedure, Vladimir Mikhailovich, can we make this decision? We can. Colleagues, please support this decision to be discussed in a simplified manner. Please don't discuss it. There's a suggestion then that the MPs understand what this is about, I'd like to turn on Vladimir Mikhailovich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u59	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to law, heard a report by the Cabinet of Ministers on Ukraine’s participation in peace and security activities. On the basis of the discussion and the outcome of the committee's discussion, a number of positions were worked out that were reflected in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree. I think we should support these proposals in the perspective that the situation in Ukraine is normalizing, and we will continue to carry out a peacekeeping mission that will allow us to strengthen Ukraine's knowledge and authority. I ask you to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u60	I mean, on the basis and in general, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u61	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, without discussion, there is no objection to our making this decision? There's no objection. Please vote that we should make this decision without discussion, please. Please vote. [[16:55:33]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on draft Decree No. 3691 and I'm asking him to take it as a whole. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[16:56:01]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Availability and quality of general secondary education: status and ways to improve." Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the project? There's no need, so I understand. I propose to give the floor to the head of the committee of Lilia Mikhailni Greenevich and accept it without discussion. Is there no objection? There's no objection. As long as the honourable chairman of the committee approaches the rostrum, let us vote to accept him without discussion. Please put this question to the vote. [[16:56:52]] For 234 Decision taken. Please, Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u63	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Mr. Head! On October 23, last year, parliamentary hearings took place. At parliamentary hearings, there were problems that are now in general secondary education and that need a first - priority solution. We got over 500 offers from different institutions, from deputies, from public organizations, from proposals that are extremely balanced. They are also aimed at addressing acute issues – lowering the quality of secondary education, reducing access and increasing inequalities in access to quality education. So I ask you to vote in general for these recommendations so that they can go to all the executive bodies, to the local authorities, to all the institutions concerned as soon as possible. Your children, parents, and educators will be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u64	Allow me to finish the speech. There is a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. Is that what I'm saying? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to vote on the basis and the whole of the draft of Decree No. 4062 on accessibility and quality of general secondary education: status and ways of improvement on parliamentary hearings. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[16:58:44]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, first reading, we need to consider a few bills. Draft Act No. 3527 amending the Administrative Services Act to postpone the operation of the Single State Portal. Is there a profile committee, representatives? Dear colleagues, when there is no committee representative, I will take this matter off the table, and we will not vote. I'm taking that question off the table. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on education on the organization of inclusive education, No. 2878. I ask the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenwich Lilia Mikhaylovna, to report on this project. And for you, dear fellows, I ask you to support us to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to support you with a reduced procedure. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:59:58]] For 221 Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u65	Your Majesty, Mr. Head, the noble national MPs! Draft legislation amending some Ukrainian legislation on education on the organisation of inclusive learning. Inclusive learning is a teaching that provides for the inclusion of children with disabilities in regular institutions, but at the same time they get the chance of socialization, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they create conditions that are necessary for their type of disease. So this is how we increase the educational chances of children with special needs. Ukrainian legislation has already introduced the possibility of inclusive education in general secondary education, but is not available in preschool. So in this bill, we open doors to preschools and create conditions for the inclusive education of such children in preschools. In addition, there is still a whole range of important situations. For example, we carry the expenses that these children may have in special institutions so that these expenses can be transferred to normal institutions. For example, in a regular public education school, a child with special needs will be financed as a healthy child, that is, between 9 and 12 thousand dollars. And if she goes to a special boarding school, there's three or four times the cost. We need that money for this child, when it goes to a facility that's adapted for inclusive learning, to go after it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u67	And there she was provided with free hot food, appropriate pedagogical support for such children. So I ask you very much to support this bill in the first reading, because we have a whole set of rights worked out and we're ready to bring them to the second reading. First reading, please, on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Are they desirable? There are those who want to talk. Please log in from factions. By a reduced procedure, I remind you. Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u69	Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u70	Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, we are in violation of the very important issue of inclusive learning, which in this bill amounts to three things. The first is the introduction of partial or full custody at the expense of the State of such a category of children. The question is, What will be the partial retention and full retention? So in the second reading, you have to write this procedure clearly. The second is providing free hot food, as we've heard. Dear Society, I would like the authors of this bill to pay attention to the definition of the principles of inclusive learning, as well as to the mechanisms for implementing it. And the last. How much does this bill relate to the Act on State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities from Childhood? So that we don't repeat what's already been prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u72	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Fedoruk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Lesi Orobec.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u74	Please turn on the microphone of the Orobec People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you please, I express my full support for this project. And I want to give Lily a chance to answer her previous question. Just come to my microphone. Turn the microphone on or off.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Irina Faryon, for your time. Why did I ask for a basis? Because between the first and the second readings we can write these mechanisms. And what is being set up today in relation to, for example, the hot diet of children in these institutions for inclusive education is not provided for by any legislation that is in force today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u77	Please turn on the speaker of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u78	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs! This bill doesn't even focus on hot food, and it doesn't even mean that a teacher's teacher or assistant for children who study in an inclusive manner is given a 25-hour load, like at boarding school. Although I also consider this to be very important. The main philosophy of this bill is that children with special educational needs should not be isolated, but should be integrated. What's more, if we look at the treatment of children with disabilities, and in Europe they're rarely called people with disabilities, they say they're people with special needs, which is a humanistic approach, and we can see that there's a percentage of the integration or this part of the integration of people with special needs much higher. Not percentages, but orderly. This is certainly true, it is a humanitarian and humanitarian approach to people with special needs. So it seems to me that whatever suggestions are made for the second reading, they are likely to be, but this bill must be adopted on the basis. This is our attitude toward those who need our attention. Once again, not the isolation of people with disabilities, not the isolation of people with special needs, but integration, integration in society is an indicator of the civilization of a society. If we have chosen a path to civilization, such bills must be supported, and that is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Miroshnicka, Party of Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! I have been working with the Association of Parents of Artists for a long time, and this law has been worked together, including the Committee on Science and Education. And a whole series of such legislative initiatives, I think, should unite this room, because it's tens of thousands of children who need our attention, who are abandoned, who are isolated, who have no chance of adapting, who are integrated into our society. I call on all of the humanitarian and simply parental feelings to support this law and perhaps to join in getting a better quality for second reading. I'd like to vote with my colleagues from the Party of Regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we put the bill to a vote? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. And support Bill No. 2878 as a basis. I emphasize, on the basis of that. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:08:41]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank the authors of the law for an important project. Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Act amending the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (No. 3874). Is there a bill from the Party of Regions? None. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the faction leaders, please arrange for the work of your deputies in the session room. The bill is being drafted, and we will not consider it without the author. Dear colleagues, Bill No. 2106 is being considered. Well, that's the way to warn about shipping, that's all. Please. We're going to take this question, without the author, let's not discuss the issue. Dear colleagues, Project No. 2106 is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for transparency and transparency in the activities of the general government social insurance funds). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u82	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear colleagues! There is nothing special about reporting, taking into account the situation in the country. That's why I'm going to be as brief as possible. I think everyone's going to agree that social media funds have to work transparently. It is clear that more than 30 billion of the money in the social security system should be under the control of not only the public, not just the trade unions and employers, but all interested citizens and parliament. Some work in this direction is already in place and is under obligation to publish reports on budget implementation to the three social funds. But people are interested in budgets when they are adopted to control all budget changes, as well as all decisions made by the welfare authorities, which should be drawn up by decrees and made public in an orderly manner. So I'm proposing a few things that are simple and understandable, and that will be an opportunity for the authorities that are going to fight corruption, and in the social fabric, given the actual closure of this system, corruption has always flourished, and, I think, for now, it's flourishing if we don't take the whole thing under strict anti-corruption control. So first. All three foundations of the Soccer must make all decisions in the form of regulations and publish them for five days on the official website as well as in official printed bodies. The other one. The budget, the budget changes, and the budget implementation report, all three Socstre funds will be published within five days on the official website and in the official printed bodies. And the third. This official website is necessarily being created, and it must be fully open and accessible. This is just one step that is needed to ensure the transparency of the welfare system, because we all know that, given that there is a huge number of programs that are subject to the financing of that system of governments and supervisory councils that are now in place and provided for by law for effective anti-corruption control is not enough. Therefore, the public should quickly receive information. All the figures and all the budget programs to be for the benefit of insured people, not for the benefit of building companies that build endless employment centers, which then stand empty because there are no jobs. And it's not in the interests of companies that update software for dozens of programs and thousands of computers that no one uses every year. Not in the interests of other corruptive programs that cannot be controlled. All of this must be under the control of society and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular. I propose to support the bill by taking it as a foundation and as a whole, because the text is small. But if thoughts are worked out, that too can be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u83	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? I won't. Please, from the committee, Jaroslav Suchy. Now, now, from the committee there will be a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you all that in this sessionary room, the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Work has been made public, in which we have explicitly denied the transfer of the newly created Ministry of Assembly and Income functions of the administration of social insurance funds. When the Pension Fund, when everything was automatically developed and worked out and there were no claims of people and there were no debts, the funds began to be transferred to the administration of the ministry. At one of the most recent meetings of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, we listened to these funds. Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, not 30 billion dollars, but almost 300 billion dollars is the sum of all the funds, yes, along with the Pension Fund, almost 300 billion dollars. Of course, this has caught our attention, is there debt? Yes. After all these funds moved to the newly created ministry, we piled up hundreds of millions of dollars in hospital bills, in accidents on production. And so it is quite clear that it is real, and the committee supported the legislative proposal of the honourable Viácheslav Anatoliyovich. It is appropriate to note the provisions of article 5 of the Public Information Act, which provides that access is ensured through the systematic and operational publication of information in official printed publications and on official websites of the Internet. We agree with the bill's author that people should know, because the Socstrahu Foundation is accumulating our, human, wages, part of the salary that the employer for us, which we put on the black day for ourselves, whether it's old age or illness, birth, burial, or industrial accidents. But it could be voted on as a whole. But what the Ministry is proposing, and we would like to propose to the author of the bill that we accept. We propose to limit ourselves to the publication of funds budgets and changes to them on the official websites of the funds. Because you have another rule that we have to remove, it refers to this. "Adequate funds within three months to ensure the enforcement of legal regulations." If we were to address such a decision to the Ministry, it would be the right thing to do. But according to the Constitution, there are no mandates of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the direction of the funds. And I call on all the Ukrainian people's deputies to ensure that there are no further speculations about and complaints about corruption in these funds regarding transparency, let's strengthen our parliamentary control over the activities of these funds. And I would like to conclude by saying that this bill, after its completion, will certainly allow for the creation and creation of additional legislative mechanisms to ensure transparency, transparency in the activities of these funds and additional opportunities for the main one, in order to counter corruption. And it will increase confidence in social security funds from citizens and the state. Thank you for your attention. The committee proposes to support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? Yes. Turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Who else would like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u86	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I have a question for you, Mr. Chairman, and to the Dry One, apparently, to the government. This is a very important bill. I would like to know the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What do I see, the conclusions? Although I myself support this bill as a deputy, as a person who has never been associated with these corrupt funds. But the Ministry of Social Policy supports the bill with observations. Ministry of Economic Development and Trade: The bill needs further work. The State Employment Centre: The bill requires editorial work. The funds don't support it, and that's basically why. Next. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine: adoption of the bill is not appropriate. And so on. What is the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? And I would like, Alexander Valentinovich, to be accompanied by these important bills by the representatives of Kabmin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, I can't speak for the entire Cabinet of Ministers, but I think this is where the hall should be defined. With regard to transparency and the activities of all funds, especially when resources are scarce in Ukraine, it is a matter of mutual concern. So I'm confident that the Supreme Council will support this project. As far as its work is concerned, both the committee and the authors do not deny that we will now accept it on our first reading. Sir, Jaroslav, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u88	That's what this is about. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, now this, already new, coalition, proposes to limit itself to the publication of the funds' budgets and changes to them on the official websites of the funds. Signature: Deputy Minister Kolomiets, who remains now. The point is that there is a need to improve the problem of normotechnics and all. The bill itself is beautiful. He'll finally restore people's trust. No problem, let's make a decision on a reduced procedure. Here's the committee head, we're going to make this change in summary procedure on publication under the Information Act, and we're going to put it in the room for second reading, no problem. But the law is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u89	There's a question for the people's deputy, Zharavsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u90	This question is urgent and even mature. Therefore, we need to accept it on the first reading and not ask too many questions, and we can improve it on the second reading. My position is that it should be accepted immediately in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u91	Deputies have the right to ask questions. Is there a need for performances, dear colleagues? There's a need. Let's just briefly write down the short procedure for factions, no objections? Let's write it from factions: two for, two against. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u93	Turn on the microphone, National Deputy Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u94	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour Dear colleagues, the bill, as has already been said today, is extremely important, extremely timely. But what I want to say is that we're practically taking the first step in this direction, because we have much more to do. As an example, 10-12 years ago the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund was 25-28 billion dollars. Today it's over 200 billion. But you and I remember how we accept the State Budget, which is consistent with that. And how is the budget adopted, more specifically, by the Pension Fund? And it is confirmed by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. Why? Today it is difficult to answer that question. So I think we should take the next steps, including towards the public adoption of the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Because once again, alongside the National Budget of Ukraine, the budget of the Pension Fund has grown in proportion. So we must be moving in that direction. And certainly, the problems reflected in the bill must be solved because recent committee hearings on fund activities have shown that there were no problems. In one fund today, debt is 18 days, in the other, 30 days, and so on and so forth. The adoption of this law is a step towards speeding up the resolution of social problems. So this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, please turn on the microphone of the national MP Molotock.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u96	Your Honor, please give Anatoly the floor to Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u97	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u98	Respectable colleagues are indeed a very important law, and it is very important to achieve the transparent work of the funds. I speak as the leader of the Interfractional Association of Employers. And it is very important that the website always has full information on all the changes that are in the fund. But I want to say another thing about all these funds being filled by employers today. And we have one of the greatest wage burdens in Ukraine compared to other countries and, unfortunately, an opaque system of distribution. Therefore, I would like to review the work of the funds to reduce the burden on employers from the payroll fund. This would certainly contribute to the development of the economy that is so necessary today for the country and the creation of new jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u99	Thank you. I agree with you that this is very important, but this does not apply to the law. He speaks of transparency and the use of funds and their filling. But this issue needs to be discussed at a government meeting in preparation for the anti-crisis programmes that we will now, hopefully, join the Cabinet of Ministers in hosting in the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone of the national MP Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u100	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Dear fellow countrymen! This is a vital and timely bill by our colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko. Because it allows for transparency and transparency, to see the work of social insurance funds, which is what every citizen of our country does. And really, it's suggested that social funds make decisions all of them, I emphasize, all of their decisions and print them for five days on their own websites. They also did the same with regard to changes to their budgets. But I would like to add that not only did the budget changes but they also printed reports on the expenditure of the funds. And I would like to emphasize that funds should be required to publish all decisions, not just those relating to their budgets. And as Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, I would like to add that our committee has considered this issue and confirmed that it proposes to be accepted as a basis for its first reading. Therefore, I would like to ask my fellow national MPs to uphold this very necessary law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u101	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Chamber of Peacekeepers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u102	Please pass the word to Ruslan Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u103	Please give the floor to the honourable MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u104	The honourable colleagues, indeed, did not support this bill of the Ministry and the vendettas of the past government. And it wasn't supported for just one simple reason that it was easier to give the so-called "mindho" to manage the huge funds that are deposited in social insurance funds, deposit them and use them in shadow mode. They were added to the fact that, indeed, huge, billions of debts were also paid by hospital, specific, regressive funds. So we think that, despite the fact that these funds are self-sustaining and non-commercial, but in this area, we need to ensure the transparency and transparency of activities so that no one else has any temptations about the funds that are deposited in these funds. That's why we're supporting the bill, and in part, we're going to draw up the decisions of the governing bodies of the funds, and we're going to publish the budget of these funds in part. And I realize that these funds are not always fully filled, but order is required. And we support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u105	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u106	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. I want to say that, of course, with regard to the transparency of the funds, and above all, access to the information of the fund is a lot of questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the figure has already been named: the total income of these insurance funds is 300 billion dollars. And how, how and where are the funds used? I'm sorry, even we are the people's chosen to get this information, we have to beat it with a fight. And at best what do we get? That's the total number, there's no need for the fund, there's no expert or scientific support for the fund's activities, there's no specific fund figures. So the question of the openness of the funds certainly stands. And if we as the national electorate really want to know where hundreds of billions of dollars are spent, we need to talk about strengthening parliamentary control over fund-building budgets, which may be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u107	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u108	And this can be done in different forms, including perhaps the budget of the fund. The funds were approved through the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because again, I say, 300 billion dollars is almost as much as the government budget of Ukraine. So by supporting this bill, I want to say one more thing, we are also waiting on the government to do the work of these funds to change approaches to the administration of a single social contribution. The bad practice and the negative that the Mindhodes have taken their only social contribution should be stopped. Six months of experimentation has shown the absolute disadvantage of this decision. We expect the government to take appropriate initiatives to change the administration of a single social contribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u109	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Mishchenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u110	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. I want to show my fingers that the glory of Kirilenko proposes to change this law. And he's proposing to remove the corruption component from these funds, the fact that they fought here for several years. And I want to point out that my colleague Zarubinsky has read us, which is opposed to Slavin's law not being passed. Thank God the Ministry of Social Policy has made its recommendations ready to accept. But from the funds, it's definitely not. How many of these laws are now in the order of the day that goes against us to clean up corruption! And first of all, it's a bill, my inheritance bill. The evaluators, the notaries, all joined together to prevent this bill from being passed. Alexander Valentinovich, on the next plenary day, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u111	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u112	Please put in a ready table signed by the committee and unanimously voted, all the factions voted for it to be placed in the hall, and let the hall be defined. Because today we've put down two bills with the President's proposals, some other bills. Why is this bill not in the way? Let's let the hall know. Doesn't vote, doesn't vote, but don't tell me what to bet, what not to bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u113	Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear colleague Sergei Mishchenko said that he did not understand what I wanted in my speech. In other words, let me explain. I want when we make decisions, including positive novels and positive bills, to be a clear position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because the Cabinet of Ministers is not a separate ministry. As you know, Mr. Sergio, the conclusions for the bills are given by different ministries, different backgrounds and so forth. We have an important position for those who will implement our laws. Don't you get it? Do you not understand that when important bills are being considered, there should be a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine who would report on the position of a government elected by the coalition? Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote? The only one who asks for the floor is the author of the Viacheslav Kirilenko bill. Let's make the closing statement and give him a chance to declare it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u116	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, we have consulted here both with the head of the profiling committee and with the rapporteur on this issue, Jaroslav Suhi. There is a proposal simply to delete paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions, which was made by both the Committee of Profiles and the Legal Department, and to vote on the basis of this proposal and the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal on the basis of the whole as well. Is there any objection to voting on this project as a whole? Not in the first reading. Supported. Dear colleagues, I am voting on draft law (No.2106) amending some of the Ukrainian laws on transparency and transparency in the operation of public social insurance funds. There is a proposal to vote on it as a whole. The Supreme Council is to be decided by a vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[17:33:54]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I thank all the people's deputies for having worked effectively and effectively today in the afternoon. But take your time! They're gone. There's one proposition from the national deputy of the Insolent. It's very short, but I think we should support it. It's up to you. I'll keep you posted. To honor the participants in the armed conflict during the peaceful protests, we have made this decision with you, and it has been voted. But it happened that we voted for the dead, and there were several fatally wounded who had already died after the bill was passed. And it's a very simple proposition. In the preamble to the words "the dead," add the words "the mortally wounded." It's a very simple bill. We can immediately put it into the agenda and vote. Please include it in the agenda. The only one. I'm talking to the author, I don't see the number of this bill. 4343. Yes, thank you. Please include in the agenda draft Supreme Council Decision No. 4343. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:35:32]] For 246 Thank you. Can we vote without discussing this project? We can. Please support this proposal and vote so that we can make a decision without discussion. Please vote. Turn the system on. [[17:36:00]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I repeat your attention. This is a draft decree amending the Supreme Council Order to honor members of armed conflict during peaceful protests. In the preamble, after the words "lie," add the words: "the fatally wounded." For justice to be for all. Because people actually died for Ukraine, for its independence, for its freedom. Both in the preamble and in the text. Both in the preamble and in the text. Because paragraph 2 applies to the same position and to the text of the judgement. Please support by taking as a basis the whole. Please vote. [[17:36:53]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the evening meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. On Wednesday, we work on committees to work on the most important laws on both national security and development issues in our country. And on Thursday at 10 a.m., we'll continue our work. Good-bye.
