ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited by the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn the system on for "The Council." [[10:01:34]] There were 269 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today, according to our good tradition, we welcome our cousin, our colleague, Melnik Eugen Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Dear national MPs, but unfortunately, what we have now, apart from having natives, we have difficult, difficult processes that are happening in us in eastern Ukraine. And I want to let you know that yesterday is dead again. People who died during terrorist attacks in eastern Ukraine. In particular, the bombers killed seven of them during a collision with terrorists. These are the officers of the 95 - aircraft brigade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. They were ambushed and our soldiers perished in an unequal battle. I ask you to honor the moment of silence with the death of our soldiers. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear National MPs, in accordance with article 25 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have today 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, statements, information. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. I would like to invite the People's Deputy Marcinkov, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Prepare the People’s Deputy Petovci. Turn on the microphone, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u2	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u3	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. The Society, those tragic events that occurred yesterday afternoon in the Kramatorsky district, when armed with heavy weapons, grenade launchers by Russian divers, were viciously attacked by Ukrainian paratroopers, shows that it is enough to stop talking about any dialogue with bandits, sabotagers and divers. It is necessary to give a strict order to complete the antiterrorist operation immediately, for stretching this antiterrorist operation leads to hundreds or thousands of victims. Today, Russian bandits are trying to solve civil war and have already begun ethnic cleansing in Luhansk and Donetsk. Today, for using the Ukrainian language, for simply saying that it is for the unity of the Ukrainian State that people are being destroyed, kidnapped, killed. Today, parents are kidnapped, detained, raped, and taken away. That is why we demand an immediate, severe end to the anti-terror operation. There can't be any negotiations with the divers, their manuals, with the Collaborators. There's my draft decree on the recognition by the terrorist so-called Donetské, Luhansk People's Republic. We must immediately recognize these organizations as terrorist. And all those who claim to support them, those who attend their meetings, those who assist them, those who provide them with local self - government, must be called to criminal responsibility immediately. We're already in negotiations. No need today, our soldiers, as long as soldiers are killed, who are negotiating what round tables can happen today when Ukrainians die? When do ethnic cleansing take place? We demand immediately that the Ministry of Justice address the court already to remove the criminal collaborators' organizations of the Communist Party, the Party of the Regions. We demand that we immediately withdraw the parliamentary immunity from anyone who supports separatists and terrorists. Today, the question of the removal of parliamentary immunity from the deputy, Oleg Králova, who came to the city of Anthracit yesterday and directly calls for the destruction of the Ukrainian state should be put to the vote. During King’s stay in Anthracite yesterday, one of the leaders of ATP was discovered who simply says that he supports the Ukrainian state. We should, the Attorney General's Office, on every matter of anti-State expression, any representative of the Ukrainian authorities and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, address, issue and record parliamentary immunity. Any toys with terrorists should end with divers. Ukrainian soldiers call and say, "How can you talk to terrorists if they kill us?" So we need to give a clear signal that we need to complete the anti-terror operation immediately. Order in the East immediately, ban all organizations that promote terrorism and only then approach the dialogue with peaceful Ukrainian citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u4	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Layashka. Pétovka, a national MP, gives him his word. Prepare the national MP, Smithuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u5	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, the leader of the so - called Ukrainian Communists, and in fact, the selling skins and traitors of the collaborators, Comrade Simonenko here, the crocodile tears of lions, told of how people are being killed. Why are you silent today when our fighters were killed yesterday? Why don't you say any words of compassion, you or the regionals? That's why I'm proposing, I'm addressing the Secretary of Defense, and Simonek, and Ephraim's recruiting, and on the front. Only to give weapons to them, for they will surrender them to their enemy in the first battle. And let him be killed there by that murderous Simones, and let no one weep over him. Then maybe they'll understand! Then they will understand what happens in Ukraine when our 20 - year - old boys are killed! Out of the ambush, you scoundrel, out of the grenades! And these come out and tell us that there, you see, peaceful citizens are being killed. What are these peaceful citizens with grenade launchers and portable airships? So the number one task is to defeat the enemy in Ukraine. The terrorist who today turns our Donbas into the second Chechnya, task number one, first to clear the enemy of the Supreme Council. For all treachery begins with the Supreme Council. These are the dirty communists who have supported the enemies who have not voted in favour of the army, who have given no vote in defense of Ukrainian soldiers, Ukrainian officers, Ukrainian people, these parasites must be brought out of here! And we need to take them and trade them for our soldiers. Simones change to our 40 hostages who are sitting in Slovenian! Yesterday, the New Year's Police Chief was stolen and taken to the S.B.I. Office in Lugansk. My assistant, Timur Yuldashev, has been held hostage for almost a month. I'm asking, why didn't any regionals or commies take hostages? And I'll give you the answer to that question because they're together. Because the Communists helped hold an illegal referendum. Because the communists, according to Moscow's task, support the divers. That's why I'm asking the Attorney General's Office to immediately appeal to the court for a restraining order against a traitorous coalition party of communists. I demand the Attorney General's Office to file a report on the criminal responsibility of a traitor named Simonek, who serves the interests of the enemy state. I demand that the Attorney General's Office bring to justice the criminal responsibility of King, Oliynik, Kalietnik, and other national deputies who have betrayed their country, who serve the enemy. Glory to Ukraine! Shame on the parasites!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u6	The national MP, Smithukh, conveys the word to the national deputy of Lithuania. Let's have a word with you. Prepare the National Deputy Spirinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u7	Can I say it? Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! If we continue to observe freely with you the conduct of an antiterrorist operation, I think that the Supreme Council should not sit down, the Supreme Council should stand by and honor the memory of the people. So once again, I feel it necessary to announce what the committee has repeatedly said. As a result of the closed meeting of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council had passed a decree and had not yet been signed. If there are such friends in Ukraine, she does not need enemies at all. So today I demand that this decree be signed immediately, since it will allow a measure of security for the State to be resolved. I do not understand why the ruling has not been signed until now, despite the fact that the Committee has asked the Head of the Supreme Council to carry out its constitutional duty, the requirement of the Rules and signed the relevant bill. It offers obvious things. A person should be appointed who is authoritative, respected, and well - known in the security and defence sectors, who could conduct the operation, mainly to preserve the people, the military, and the peaceful citizens. In order not to compete with the force, who first runs to the television or other information networks to tell how the operation is conducted. To appoint a person of authority who uses trust to provide reliable, objective information. Above all, we need to take complex measures and complex measures. Today, it is suggested that we hold a round table. God damn it, it's gonna happen. But it would be a great credit to the round table if you had made your first decision on it. Given this difficult situation, given that the presidential elections will turn into a fair of hypocrisy, they will agree that the President's election is to be held in one round so that there is more legitimate power in Ukraine, because they claim to be illegal power. In order to be able to negotiate, all parties need to make clear decisions. But we have a political process, we don't have a decision, and the Supreme Council has the highest responsibility, which is not a ruler, including one of our colleagues, they're lying to this Supreme Council. Please tell me, if Ukraine does not have the main and decisive source of trust in power, will Ukraine be a state? And we sail around each other and think that this will make the people love us, and we will solve all the problems! The country is dying, let's stop, let's make a decision, let's not split up into political parties, because there's no place left in this country! How much can you say and say?Oh, my God! I speak again on behalf of the committee. If only you'd be part of the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u8	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, report, the ruling is signed, it will be published tomorrow. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u9	That decision was signed when the Kiev-Chop road was blocked, and women came out to cover the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u10	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Spireen. To prepare for the people's deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u11	Deeply respected colleagues, deeply respected citizens of Ukraine! I'll speak on medical issues. As you can see, there are many medical problems in Ukraine, but there are many medical problems in the Supreme Council. Therefore, I think the grief that is taking place in Ukraine is something that needs to be addressed today as well as the social issues related to medicine. I'd like to draw your attention to the following. The Communist Party faction categorically condemns another attempt to reduce treatment facilities. 07.04. In 2004, the Ministry of Health presented to the public a draft Act on the Recognition of Deprived Persons of the Law on the Establishment of a Moratorium for the Elimination and Restructuring of Health Institutions. In this draft, it is proposed to abolish the moratorium on restructuring, the elimination of health institutions, which has already been adopted with us — what disrespect. I report on the legal conflict, the failure of local councils to manage health care, the territorial community. We're being asked to decide again, in the form of reorganizations, to close clinics, hospitals, hospitals. Parliamentarians have long fought for this law to halt the reform that primarily destroys the paediatric service. To date, this destruction will have serious consequences. In fact, the Ministry proposes to continue to violate article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which prohibits the reduction of the network of treatment facilities. Instead of achievements, there is only a breakdown of the medical service. Therefore, we, the communists, are again proposing to the Ministry to review today's reform, medical problems and to plan in the next conclusion so that there are no mistakes that have been made earlier. We propose to approve and consider our bill (2661) on the abolition of medical reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u12	May I have the floor of the people's deputies, Rosenka? Prepare the People’s Deputy, Matthew. Rosenko gives the floor to the national deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! In fact, today every single one of us, every citizen of Ukraine, is simply concerned that we honor and honor the memory of our citizens killed by terrorists and the occupying country of Russia. And that's why the security of the Ukrainian army and its restocking becomes question number one. So we ask the UDA faction to prepare a report for the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Friday on "the hour of questions to the government" on how and where it was directed and these 7 billion dollars that we invented from the budget of Ukraine and those millions of dollars that have been collected today by Ukrainian citizens to support the army. Because for the army today, it's not the kind of thing that's been stolen by the previous authorities, you know, by beds and stuff, but, first of all, high-grade armor that can save our boys. The other one. It's quite obvious that we need to ask the question of re-enlisting a military suit. Because today the army is being disgraced by those who have served no day in the Ukrainian army, and whose sons are doing business and becoming oligarchs, while their popes are headed by the so-called Communist Party instead of now going after the mobilization of the Ukrainian army. May all Ukrainian men serve in this room and then not be disgraced by the Ukrainian army but be honored, honored, and worshiped by the memory of those boys who are protecting themselves today from terrorists and Russian invaders of civilians in Donetsk and Luhansk and our territory. Every day, we receive thousands of appeals from Donetsk who ask us to protect us from the bandits with guns standing on our land. And so it's very obvious that we have to do everything we can to do that. But first, strengthen the boundaries. We need to restore these bulkheads today, and we need to be able to re-establish and appeal to the European Union for technical assistance to resupply the eastern border. Because there is no brother in the East, but a terrorist, an occupying country, who today is fighting a deliberate war against Ukraine. And so we have to look after, honourable colleagues, the information policy of the state. Because this is not normal today, people in eastern Ukraine are still numbed by some, including some of these parties that support separatism. I want to go to the people in the East and tell you, it's absolutely not true that you have today's salary cut in order to kind of restore Maidan. That's a complete lie! They shorten your wages in private businesses for those who finance secessionism. And that's why from our faction to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine: to ask where the so-called deputy from Slavanska Azarov Jr. is now; to file a criminal case against every deputy who is funding separatism today, to ask questions about drawing them to criminal responsibility; and also this session, this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u14	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u15	Take them off the MP's touch. And now, from our faction, we want to thank all of our boys who are conducting an anti-terrorist operation, protecting the borders of Ukraine and the civilians, and doing so so that none of them will die, but that all the bandits will be neutralized. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u16	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Matthew. Prepare the National MP, Kirilenko Paula.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u17	Please pass the word to my colleague Mikhailenko Olga Dmitrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u18	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u19	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! The new interim power of Hersonish on 9 May on the Day of the Victory of the Soviet People in the Great Homeland War demonstrated savagery, ignorance and disrespect. Governor Odarchenko, who illegally holds two public posts, called on local authorities to prevent provocations on that day, but together with interim mayor Herson Mikolaenk, they did everything they could to ensure that these provocations would occur: they intimidated people, they did not prepare a rally at the appropriate level, they humiliated soldiers of liberators and soldiers of the body of the people of Hersonian. While justifying Hitler's invasion of the Communist regime, Odarchenko caused outrage at the participants in the festivities. I want to ask this pseudoguide: what, Hitler and European countries fought against the communist regime. How long will our history be scolded by power, historical truth, and the imposition and justification of Hitler’s fascism that led to millions of casualties? In Hersonian alone, 75,000 people were killed. 38,000 were abducted in Germany. How long will the power not be built up, but destruction? Is that not the source of what is being done in our home today? On behalf of the public, we request the Acting President to resign the interim Governor of Hersonian. And the last. The authorities do not want to listen and listen to balanced and reasonable suggestions. Such power is doomed. This is evidenced by yesterday's statement by the Acting President to prohibit Ukraine's compatriot. Ladies and gentlemen, remember the company can be banned, but the truth and the idea cannot be forbidden. We're talking to you. Stop the political games. Stop the bloodshed. Renovate a united, strong and independent Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u20	Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Kirilenko, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The national deputy Kirilenko gives the word to Galina Black. Please. Prepare the Ponmarov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u21	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! During the revolution, during such terrible events that are now taking place in eastern Ukraine, the nation itself is instinctively, intuitively depriving itself of all that is too much for it, which hinders its moving forward. During the largest Leninopad in human history, this Leninopad took place in Ukraine during the last months. The Ukrainians fell, and over 100 of Lenin’s image fell to the ground. In this way, Ukraine has given us parliamentarians the opportunity to understand that they no longer need a communist leader, that they don't need a communist ideology, that they want to join the cohorts of those European countries in which communist ideology is banned. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that Communist ideology is now banned in the vast majority of Europe. I would like to remind you that today Poland is conducting the sixth edition of the illustration, during which even journalists who cooperated with the Communist regime were reached. I'll remind you that Lenin's monument was demolished even in Ulanbaatar. I'll remind you that Bulgaria called off those ambassadors who worked with the Communist regime. Yes, Communists come to Parliament today, but they usually come to put everything on their heads to twist Ukrainian history to call separatists peaceful citizens and those who defend Ukraine to call fascists. Respectable Society! It's not a theater anymore, and it's not a joke. Because people die. Because separatism is now being transferred, like a contagious disease, to other countries. We see that today other countries are starting to think about offering autonomy to their minorities in Ukraine. Therefore, the Ukrainian Parliament must act decisively. In fact, the Ukrainians gave us a ticket to ban Communist ideology. We have to put this bill into Parliament and we have to get rid of what is preventing the Ukrainian nation, rid of what the Ukrainians are asking us to do. Respectful association, many things, should be more determined. We also have to think about information space. Why don't you tell us on the TV channels the movies that celebrate the greatness of the Armed Forces, the movies that celebrate the communist times, the movies that glorify the Soviet Union? Determinedness is what will help us now to protect Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u22	The Ponmarov People’s Deputy conveys his word to the People’s Deputy Matviyenko. Prepare the People’s Deputy Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I cannot but reiterate the subject of the events that took place in Mariupola. People died, the city survived the shock. Whatever assessments are made today, but I know one thing: those responsible must answer for every drop of innocent people's blood spilled. Dear Mr. Acting President, I don't know where he is now! Create a commission, attract international professionals, learn about what happened there. In a few months, the country has gone from petty hooliganism to mass murder. None of these crimes have been solved. There's not a single result. At best, there are so-called designated perpetrators. It's no good to anyone today. Every day, Rada rises, dying in a minute of silence. It's time to put an end to this. Think about it. The country is already on the verge. I've studied a study on the theory of civil opposition. It consists of 14 stages. The opposition to ideas, peaceful demonstrations, the seizure of state institutions and weapons, the first armed confrontation, we have already experienced with you. Today, we are at the threshold of phase six, involving civilians in armed conflict. However, if up to one per cent of the population were to be armed, this process would no longer be possible. This phase is followed by clashes between armed groups, total division of society, total loss of governance, mass looting and looting. It all ends with the complete extermination of weak factions and total genocide. And only then will there be those who can make a deal. The fourteenth phase is determined by the suppression of civil war and the construction of a new state apparatus. Tell me, do we have to go all this way? Is it for the sake of someone's political ambitions that we should throw the country into such chaos? And why can't we move on to the fourteenth today after the fifth stage? Stop fighting, stop these so-called anti-terrorist operations. Our faction, headed by MP Novinsky and other deputies, has issued a draft regulation proposing to halt the terror that is now taking place throughout Ukraine. Nothing but death, destruction, and violence can afford these operations today! East funerals, funerals in the West, funerals in the Centre of Ukraine, this has already become a normal feature of life. Is this a normal thing? Mariupol, for example, lost more than 30 lives after two anti-terrorist operations! More than 70 people are being treated today! City in chaos! What's going on in your military connections?Oh, my God! Look at the order! Move your troops to the locations! We're sitting at the negotiating table. We're changing the Constitution. Enter the second language of the State. Decentralization of our territorial device. Let us give people the assurance that they will not fear for their children, for their lands. for their families, and they'll have the courage to watch tomorrow. You can yell, you can don't yell. Speak to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u24	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the People's Deputy Suhogo. Prepare the people's deputy, the poor man. And there's no Suhogo? Please, the people's deputy Suhiy is giving his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u25	Dear, distinguished national MPs! The Association of National Deputies "Economic Development" refers to all colleagues in Parliament. Not only does he turn, but he also requires an end to endless accusations, insults, competitions in eloquences, and declarative calls. Only a consolidated state, society, the authorities are able to protect national territorial interests, statehood, and socio-economic development. It is very important, too, for the Supreme Council to set its highest priorities and focus its efforts on their implementation. The most important question that will determine both our future and our statehood and development is, of course, the drafting of a new constitution. I want to remind you from the Economic Development MP group that tomorrow's deadline for a special constitutional commission to make proposals on the content of the draft Constitution is crucial for us to carry out this task. And on the basis of the consolidated actions of the unitary state, territorial integrity, based on the maximum delegation of powers by the local authority, communities are obliged to make all the resources necessary to protect both our interests and the formation of an effective, modern system of power in Ukraine. There's no alternative to that. It's different. We are very concerned that after the adoption of a very important, certainly fiscal package, including the restoration of Ukraine-IMF cooperation from the government, we do not see or hear proposals, concrete actions to increase business activity in Ukraine, to prevent a socio-economic collapse, in the event of its "unification" (in paws) with a political crisis, with a security problem, the country is facing enormous shocks. There is a need to work out concrete programs on the industrial and economic development of the South East, which is under great pressure from aggressive action. It's very important and essential that we take seriously the development of small, medium-sized businesses. The state is gradually restoring its Raider Schemes, turning back, these issues need to be severely stalled, it has the most plausible importance in the whole adaptation of Ukraine's economy to the terms of free trade, minimizing the consequences of market loss in the East. These are the only questions to be asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u26	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u27	Only these issues that affect the vitality of every Ukrainian citizen, economic security, and national interests should be a priority in the activities of the Supreme Council. The "Economic Development" MP strongly insists on returning to the responsible pragmatic actions that the Ukrainian people and the state expect of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time for the speech is up. Zero. I'm sorry, time's up. I'm sorry. Let's move on to the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, if the previous speaker hadn't spoken for three minutes, you'd have time. But he's spent all his time. Sadly, then, half an hour is exhausted in accordance with the Law on the Rules. You saw it on the monitor. So we move on to the next order of the day. Thank you. So your point is to put in the order of the day, honourable national MPs, so I see, you're so actively walking around the hall right now, and you've got an active desire to work. The bill (registration number 4692) is therefore a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 (to protect the interests of low-income and socially vulnerable groups). Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to be clear. I ask you to sit down. We will now be determined to enter into the order of the day. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote on the inclusion of the bill. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:36:57]] For-151 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 27, Fatherland – 31, Vitalia Klicka – 15, Economic Development – 16, Sovereign European Ukraine – 21, Freedom – 26, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 15. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to pay attention. You are now voting for inclusion in the agenda. The next bill, 4695, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and the Establishment of Presidencies for Economic Growth in Ukraine on the Protection of the Interests of Lowly Provided Types of Population. People's deputies would like to decide by vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:38:03]] For 193 The decision is not approved. The factions. Regional Party 34, Fatherland 40, Vitalia Klicka 20, Economic Development 18, Sovereign European Ukraine 22, All-Ukrainian Freedom 29, Company 1, non-fractional 29. Thank you. The next bill (registration number 4728) is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to extend access to information on immovable property rights in order to prevent corruption and protect property rights. People's deputies would like to decide by vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:39:00]] For the 180. Let me show you through the factions. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 39, Vitalia Klicka – 18, Economic Development – 4, Sovereign European Ukraine – 5, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 27, Company – 0, non-factional – 15. The next bill (registration number 4779) is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement concerning State purchases of agricultural products. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:39:51]] For 112 Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 43, Vitalia Klicka – 10, Economic Development – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 12, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 28, Company – 0, non-fractional – 15. The next bill (registration number 4133) is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration of terminology in the field of central water supply and water supply). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:40:43]] For-119 The decision is not approved. Please show us the factions. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 32, Vitalia Klicka – 7, Economic Development – 17, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, Freedom – 28, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 20. The next bill (registration number 4312) is a draft regulation on immediate measures to ensure public order and public security in the capital of Ukraine, Kiev. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:41:37]] For-140. The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 43, Vitalia Klicka – 21, Economic Development – 7, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 29, Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. The next bill (registration number 3427) is the draft Law on the Watch. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:42:24]] For 109 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 34, Vitalia Klicka – 12, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 17, All-Ukrainian Freedom Association – 29, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. Next question. List of bills (registration numbers 4570, 4570-1, 4570-2, 4570-3), draft law on the conduct of illustrations in Ukraine. People's deputies, who are extremely important to society, would like to ask the people's deputies to decide by their vote on the inclusion of these bills in the agenda. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:43:31]] For 131 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions is 1, Fatherland is 40, Vitalia Klicka is 24, Economic development is 1, Sovereign European Ukraine is 17, Freedom is 29, Company is 0, non-fractional is 19. The next draft of the regulation (registration number 4828) is the Decision on urgent measures to increase the professional level of law enforcement employees. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:44:21]] For-126 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 44, Vitalia Klicka – 21, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 16, Freedom – 28, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 15. Next draft of the regulation (registration number 4759) is the decision to assign the name of Amet Khan Sultan to the Simferopol International Airport. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:45:12]] For-151 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 38, Vitalia Klicka – 26, Economic Development – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 19, Freedom – 29, Ukraine – 18, non-fractional – 18. We're going to go through all the questions, then, with your permission, we're on board. The next draft of the Act (registration number 4470) is the draft Act amending part 2 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Anti-Investigative Activities Act (for functions and powers of the Ukrainian Security Service). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:46:18]] For-137 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 41, Vitalia Klicka – 23, Economic Development – 4, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 29, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 21. The next draft of the Act (registration number 4516) is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the deprivation of the right to special pensions and the provision of one-time financial assistance to officials (service) who are released for violation of the oath, Constitution and laws of Ukraine. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:47:15]] For-140. The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions is 2, Fatherland is 42, Vitalia Klicka is 25, Economic Development is 4, Sovereign European Ukraine is 19, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is 29, Ukraine's Company is 0, non-fractional is 19. The next draft of the Act (registration number 4737) is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and the Establishment of Preconditions for Economic Growth in Ukraine (for guarantees of pension insurance for persons released from military service and some others). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:48:09]] For 205 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Region Party 38, Fatherland 51, Vitalia Klicka 22, Economic Development 20, Sovereign European Ukraine 21, All-Ukrainian Freedom 29, Ukrainian Company 0, non-fractional 24. There is a need to put everything to the vote again. Do you think there'll be enough votes? At the request of the National Deputies, we will once again attempt to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law (registration number 4737) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster and the Creation of Premeditations for Economic Growth in Ukraine (as regards guarantees for the retirement of persons released from military service and some others). People’s deputies are asked to be careful and to vote at the right time. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:49:27]] For 211 The decision is not approved. The next bill (registration number 4339) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for a moratorium on fines for newly created taxpayers and participants in the Dignity Revolution). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:50:05]] For-125 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 46, Vitalia Klicka – 17, Economic Development – 4, Sovereign European Ukraine – 16, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 29, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 13. Next draft of the Act (registration number 4772): draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine (registration of activities). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:50:56]] For 235 Decision approved. The factions, please. The Party of Regions 42, Fatherland 43, Vitalia Klicka 25, Economic Development 25, Sovereign European Ukraine 24, All-Ukrainian Freedom 28, Ukraine 24 and non-fractional 24. Next draft of the Act (registration number 4592): Draft Act amending article 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules (to ensure access for citizens to plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:51:54]] For 132 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions – 1, Fatherland – 40, Vitalia Klicka – 24, Economic Development – 1, Sovereign European Ukraine – 21, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 28, UK – 0, non-fractional – 17. Next draft of the Act (Registration No. 4609): Draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (for the provision of personal voting by the Ukrainian National Deputies). People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:52:43]] For 241 The decision has been made. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions is 45, Fatherland is 47, Vitalia Klicka is 26, Economic Development is 16, Sovereign European Ukraine is 24, Freedom is 29, Ukraine is 22, non-fractional is 32. Next draft law (registration number 4143), draft law amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act (to define the concept of a national audiovisual product and to fill it with television broadcasters). People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:53:39]] For-137 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions – 1, Fatherland – 46, Vitalia Klicka – 13, Economic Development – 7, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 29, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 21. Next draft law (registration number 4292), draft Decree on certain issues of information activities of the National Radio Company of Ukraine. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:54:28]] For-136 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 46, Vitalia Klicka – 20, Economic Development – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 29, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. The next draft of the law (registration number 4751) is a draft of the Ukrainian law on documents certifying the person and granting the right to leave abroad. People's deputies, please determine by vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:55:17]] For-152. The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 47, Vitalia Klicka 26, Economic Development 5, Sovereign European Ukraine 24, All-Ukrainian Freedom Association 28, Ukrainian Company 0, non-factional 20. The next draft of the law (registration number 4105) is the draft Law amending article 51 of the Code on the Work of Ukraine in Protecting the Health of Pregnant Women. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:56:09]] For 241 The decision has been made. Please show by factions. The Party of Regions 42, Fatherland 47, Vitalia Klicka 21, Economic Development 23, Sovereign European Ukraine 27, All-Ukrainian Freedom 28, Ukraine 25, non-fractional 28. And the last. Last question today before inclusion. The draft Act (registration number 4589) is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the reorganization of income and assembly bodies. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:57:03]] For-147 The decision is not approved. Please show by factions. Region Party 2, Fatherland 45, Vitalia Klicka 23, Economic Development 7, Sovereign European Ukraine 23, All-Ukrainian Freedom Association 28, Ukrainian Company 0, non-factional 19. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move to the order of the day's first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We keep working. We are now dealing with the issue (registration number 1093) according to the order of the day – the draft Law on Private Detective Activities. Please, the Swedish National MP, the author of the bill. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u30	Dear colleagues. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, I suggest you do. Let's go to Victor Dmitrovich, let's look at this question and then we'll go back to including when there are proposals. The only thing I'm asking is that the honourable colleagues, so that the proposals don't just echo and support the hall, work in the hall and make sure that most factions do support inclusion in the agenda. Just putting it to a vote to fail, that's not the point. Dear colleagues, let's consult, with a reduced procedure, will we consider the matter? Short cut. A full-time procedure? Let's have a full procedure, a serious matter, please. Colleagues, then let the hall be defined. I'm asking a question about a reduced procedure and let the room decide on that. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:58:58]] For-76 The decision is not taken. We're working on a full procedure. Please, Victor Dmitrovitch, your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by a bill on private detective (search) activity. This is where the Head of the Supreme Council absolutely stated that we will now consider the vital and vital legislative proposal that our country needs. Dear friends, in most parts of the world, private detective-search activities are recognized at the state level. It is regulated by laws and is optimally used to enhance the ability of citizens and legal persons to defend legitimate rights and interests. The United States, Great Britain, France, Germany and many, many countries of the world are making extensive use of the capabilities of private detective agencies, detective bureaus to gather relevant evidence and provide these evidence to the courts. Thus, civil society’s ability to provide evidence in court is extremely important in order to support the reasonableness of the individual’s position in judicial proceedings. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that private detective activity in Ukraine is in principle being widely used. But in order for this activity to be properly normalized, this bill is being introduced. The bill consists of 8 chapters, 26 articles that clearly regulate the procedure for the creation of detective agencies, their legal status, their ability and authorization, and the procedure for the exercise of this activity. The conditions under which the witness is cancelled, the types of detective activity, the services of detectives that may be provided by private investigators. The authority of these entities, the restrictions on the private detective activity of their coworkers, and their interaction with law enforcement agencies. Types of private investigators. A court of professional secrecy and the results of private detective activity and so on. I mean, I would like to say that this law is completely normalizing all issues related to the activity of private detective agencies. I'd like to point out another very important detail here. This bill was drafted a few years ago. He was considered in Parliament on the sixth call. He was supported in the first reading. Sadly, however, it was not possible for him to be considered in general. Now, as you can recall, he has also viewed Parliament’s seventh convocation three or four times. And finally today, we have the opportunity, dear colleagues, to adopt this very important and vital country's legal document. I would like to immediately point out why, in principle, the main problem is why this law has not been enacted for a long time. I think you realize that the main problem, the main problem was that the law enforcement agencies in the person, above all, did not allow the Ministry of Internal Affairs to create a competitive environment in the field of search. But I think the time has come, and all the Ukrainian citizens have realized that the law enforcement authorities at this time cannot fully exercise their powers to perform the functions that are laid down for them. So I think it was absolutely logical and right for us to adopt this bill at the legislative level and allow for the creation in Ukraine of private detective agencies that would operate with a clearly defined Rules, a law of authority and a job that law enforcement authorities cannot do. I am confident that the legislative settlement of this issue will benefit the protection of the constitutional rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. I am fully aware that this bill needs to be clarified and amended, because it has not been considered in Parliament for several years, and some changes have taken place during this time, perhaps even serious enough. But this does not mean that the bill has lost its relevance. I am convinced that before the second reading of this bill, there may be some changes and additions that will only improve this bill and create guarantees and such a solid legislative basis for us to get private-detective activities out of the shadows and give it a legislative settlement. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? There's a question. Please turn on the microphone of the Yavorovov National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Troyshina, Fatherland, Kiev. Of course, this is an entirely new subject in our legislation. It's a completely new phenomenon and in some ways, maybe even an unexpected organ in our law enforcement system. Because of this, of course, it has long existed in the West, and it is absolutely necessary. On the ground, that's all, on the background of our completely sold, well, not entirely, I don't generalize, the police, the prosecution. Look, look at the list that's been exchanged in the D.A.'s office -- only district attorneys, and the rest of the deputies -- the whole family is sitting in their seats. Because of this, something new can be expected from them in approaches. Because of this, the appearance of private investigators is, of course, very relevant. And "Paternality" all the voices she has here today will pay for this bill. But I'm interested in what's important. I once, well, didn't read the bill, Mr. Victor, I didn't read in detail how private detectives worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u34	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u35	Questions. How will the work of the detectives be used then, let's say, not by private authorities, but by state law enforcement agencies? What model? Explain how this will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u36	I completely agree with you that this issue may need to be further detailed in the bill. But for example, let's take the Bar Act. The Law on Lawyers gives a lawyer the right to collect evidence and to provide such evidence before a court when dealing with cases or other cases. However, in order for a lawyer to be able to implement these powers provided for by law, he may, in accordance with the applicable legislation, if this law is adopted, enter into appropriate agreements with private detective agencies or offices that will carry out his commission in the collection of evidence or other evidence. This evidence will then be presented in court and used by a lawyer, in accordance with the procedure established. And the court will judge whether this evidence is reliable or not. And as for that direct question of your use of law enforcement, there is a problem, you know. The thing is, law enforcement doesn't allow any competition in our country at all. But if we adopt this law, dear colleagues, and I insist that you accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u37	Let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u38	Then we will have a tremendous opportunity to engage in this necessary work the vast number of persons released from law enforcement agencies, professional people who, according to the law, create their own detective agencies, offices and do what they did, well, in some ways only law enforcement agencies. And then. So, this is, you know, law enforcement, detective activity is going to be made on the basis of a contract between certain things.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u39	I got the answer. Thank you, Victor Dmitriovich. Please sit down. This question is reported by the chairman of the Committee on Legal Protection in Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please. Where's Mikola Petrovich? Dear colleagues. I won't. It is a pity that the committee heads have such an attitude toward their responsibilities. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. From factions, please record. The word is given to the People's Deputy Mironenko, "Economic Development" by the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u40	I'm asking you to give Philippe a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u41	Please come to the rostrum with the People’s Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina In general, the Economic Development Group supports the idea of consolidating detective activity, private detective activity at the legislative level. It is absolutely necessary, at last, as has been said, to destroy a certain monopoly, let's say, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the steps that are proposed to be taken, those ideas, of course, are relevant. Indeed, the actual consolidation of private detective activity at the legislative level, the settlement of this issue, will allow for the establishment of rights and responsibilities, the specificization of private detectives, private detective agencies, and the clear establishment of the boundaries of private detective activity. First of all, it'll keep citizens safe from fraud. Secondly, it will contribute to the whole and the search activity, which can't be overlooked. In fact, this idea, I'm talking about anchoring at the legislative level of private detective activity, it's totally aimed at developing a European society, it's going to contribute to a significant development in the fight against violations of citizens' rights, and it's going to allow the decommissioning of state law enforcement. At the same time, we cannot but note the many shortcomings of this bill, which do not allow us to support the bill in the same way that it is presented to you today. Well, first of all, the bill contains a lot of rules that duplicate existing legislation and actually overload content. There are many inconsistencies and contradictions regarding the use of concepts contained in current legislation, such as the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs, in the Ukrainian Law on State Service, other laws. Special attention must be paid to the form of farming and to the description of such a form in the proposed bill. In view of the fact that private detective activity is an entrepreneurial activity and must conform to the master code of Ukraine, other laws. It is also necessary to regulate the sequence of business registrations, the issuance of certificates for the right to engage in detective activities, the receipt of certificates to prevent such activities from taking place without proper registration. It also raises some warning about the duration of the bill's entry into force and, in general, the implementation of the bill in that form requires the development of existing software, databases for registration, certification of the right to act as a detective. I will not, in the absence of time, talk about all the shortcomings, we propose that this bill be sent to the Parliament for further work, to thoroughly elaborate and to submit a consolidated bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u43	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, our constituents! The wise man said that even nine women do not give birth to a child within one month. Because I'm convinced that this bill is ripe, it's already wandering so much in the top of the Supreme Council a few calls that it should be taken seriously and, in the end, it should be accepted, at least in the first reading. And then in this pause, in this lift, so to speak, you're already reaching all of those. Because there are really things that I've been asking myself in my question about how work will be used. And, of course, we have to protect this law from one very, perhaps unpleasant thing and unusual to us, or maybe ordinary one, it's interference with the personal lives of Ukrainian citizens. How, in what form will this be done? Tracking, there and so forth. This is very dangerous, and this will necessarily be limited and restricted in the bill to the rights of this private investigator. I think it's very important. And of course, using those data that I've been working on, I'd like to make it more clear in the law that these data can not only be used by a protector, but perhaps even be able to participate in a court hearing and present their arguments to the representative of this detective office, or whatever it is called, then everything will be in place. I completely disagree with my predecessor, who here said that this must be passed on for further work. It's already being worked out, this law, I say again, is already two or three convocations, in the end, it needs to be adopted. And lastly, I still have a little time there, and I want to talk to Mr. Ruslan. Mr. Ruslan, without demeaning my respect for you, I still want to tell you how young Parliamentary is. When it comes to the inclusion of issues in the agenda, it is the right of a national MP to discuss the subject. And that's what happened to us, not two or three times. You've driven all these questions away quickly today, all these questions, as you can see, are almost nowhere to be found. I mean, I'm talking to the parliamentarians. Dearly beloved, regardless of our views, we must call this Amet Han Sultan Airport in Simferopol, his name. This is the legendary Crimean Tatar who was on vacation, imagine coming on vacation the day the Crimean Tatars were deported, and he was already present with the star Hero. He is a unique man who then tested the planes, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union. Today, we would be able to help the Crimean Tatars politically to deport them, calling them, bringing them to the Ukrainian Parliament today, calling the airport in Simferopol its name. Let's do this, it's going to be a beautiful thing, and it's going to be very useful, and it's going to be supporting Crimean Tatars.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u45	Thank you. National MP Chumak, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I want to say that the Law on Private Detective Activity is probably long overdue, and the adoption of this law is long overdue in Ukrainian society. Private detective activity is a completely normal activity, private activity, in any civilized society. Moreover, under conditions of high corruption in law enforcement, under the highly politicized activities of law enforcement agencies, private detective activity can be a certain alternative to gathering evidence both in criminal and civil proceedings, in any case, of any complexity. But there is one thing. It is said that this bill, which we are considering with you, needs sufficient work to be done. I want to say that as the head of the committee, there are so many people who see themselves as private detectives. What is more, it is a very large number of people who see themselves as officers of the detective bureau and who want to work in this queen. But they have a lot of claims to this bill. So I think today, given that society is still looking forward to working in private detective activities, it is still necessary to adopt this law in the first reading. But to create a working group of representatives of all factions, to include interested persons from an expert environment, from a public environment, to take into account all the positions of interested persons, and to ensure that the law in the second reading does not cause complaints in the Parliamentary Hall or in society or in those who will carry it out. Moreover, I would like to say that this law did not stand, should not become a law of pressure or a law of order that exerts pressure on the judicial and legal system, but would only help it in its work. Thank you. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the adoption of the law in the first reading and propose that it be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u47	Thank you. Zarubinsky's National MP, the "Supreme European Ukraine" MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Whether we want it or not, in Ukraine, the private detective's institute will be, and he will be. There can be no other way. Why? Since a number of matters in society are always better understood, they are investigated by private investigators rather than by state law enforcement agencies. And this is evidenced by the experience of many countries where the level of legal awareness and the level of crime detection is much higher, if not by percentage, than in Ukraine. It is enough to say that in England the number of private security personnel and detective firms is twice the number of police officers. In the United States, the budget of private agencies is 50 percent higher than that of all law enforcement agencies in the United States. We're going to get to it, someone wants something or doesn't want it today, because it's normal. I understand that in our consciousness or in our imagination, often a private detective associates with blockbusters, with art films, where it's a hero, where it's a macho, where it's a person who can investigate anything. But most things, I want to say again, are completely different. Statistics show that it is about finding people whose whereabouts are unknown. You know what the problem is, including for Ukraine. And state law enforcement investigators do not always fully perform this function. This is about finding missing property and animals, by the way, and animals. This is done both in England and France and in Norway by the vast majority of private investigators. It's about finding evidence of intellectual property violations, which in Ukraine is virtually non-existent, what in Ukraine virtually no one has done, does not do and, I think, will not do for much longer. So there's a whole series of cases where the role of a private investigator, private investigation, is always going to be higher and more productive than it is on a national scale. I understand that some might view this issue as lobbying, given that it is created by detective enterprises, private detectives and so on. But once again, I want to say that we don't have to invent a bicycle because, I repeat, but I do it on purpose, because the experience of countries where a much higher level of crime detection and the better functioning of the law enforcement system proves that this is our future. And it started from Conan Doyle, and you remember who was the best detective, and who did a better investigation: Sherlock Holmes or the appropriate inspector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u49	Thank you. National MP Momot, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! National Deputy Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. The bill is certainly necessary, he has already looked over as my colleagues have said. And we're going to do a lot of de jure because we already have a de facto. But there are so many warnings, I agree with my colleagues, especially by interfering with the personal life of citizens. So there is an offer to accept it in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u51	Thank you. People's Deputy Furman, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u52	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u53	Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Bondarchuk. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u54	Thank you. I mean, we're basically ready to support this bill in the first reading, but it needs work. The bill does not define the responsibility of natural and legal persons for obstructing the activity of a detective, and most of the rules will be declared in practice. The bill does not determine the possibility of detectives being involved in investigation of crimes, which is important if they are to be entrusted with the functions of a detective, so it is necessary to anticipate the above, taking into account one type of detective activity, which is the search, collection and identification of information in criminal conduct. In fact, without predicting their status in the Criminal Procedure Code, their activities will be without result because of the limitations in the activities of detectives and the problem of involving evidence in criminal conduct materials. It is therefore necessary to provide for appropriate amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code. Also unknown is the status of information that will be collected by a detective, since he may be familiar with confidential information that may cause significant harm to a person in the process. For example, information on health is different. Also, the professional responsibility of the detectives for serious misconduct in their activities is not defined. Well, if a license is issued for any detective activity, we need to predict the consequences of the violation of this license and how, and who will determine the termination of such a license. The bill also contains significant inconsistencies in terms of terminology with the Civil, the Master, and other codes. We consider it appropriate to vote for the return. If you want to support it in your first reading, or if you want to go back to work. This law is really important and necessary for society. Yet, in the context of the adoption of these relevant laws in general, we also need to talk about reforming the law enforcement system in general. To date, Ukraine’s law enforcement system, in particular the law enforcement agencies, must perform its proper function. So I'm going to ask you a question about what citizens need to talk to private investigators. Because, as we know, there's a colossal budget being allocated to the organs of the pretrial investigation. They don't perform their functions. For years there have been thousands of cases that have not been investigated, and citizens are forced to address law enforcement agencies, and they do not perform the functions of investigating the cases that they have. So, I think that what we need to start with is reforming the law enforcement system, namely from its illustration, testing the activities of law enforcement agencies -- what we did with the judicial system, we passed the Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judicial System. We consider it necessary to pass the same law on restoring confidence in the law - enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us hear the committee's position on this matter. And I invite you to the rostrum of the Committee on the Legislative Security of Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u56	Dear Lord Chairman, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable ones present! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Private Detective (Research) Activities submitted by the National Deputies of Ukraine to Sweden and Malishev at its meeting on 16 March 2013. The purpose of the bill is to regulate private search activities. I remind you that the Supreme Council is not dealing with this issue for the first year, but it has never been as relevant as it is today when it is necessary to direct all efforts of law enforcement agencies to ensure, first and foremost, the rule of law and order in the state, the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. And here's a very useful figure for a private detective who's going to have the right to collect detailed information, give it to the police to make a timely and legitimate decision. The bill proposes to identify the types and legal status of private detectives; types of detective services that may be provided to entities involved in legal activities and activities; restrictions on private detective activities; preparation, retraining and upgrading of the qualifications of personnel engaged in private detective activities; and the social and legal status of citizens engaged in private detective activities. The committee believes that the adoption of the bill will allow the actual activities of a large number of people to be removed from the shadows and placed under the strict control of the State, collecting taxes from them. In addition, the ability of people to defend their legitimate rights and interests will be increased. We are confident that law enforcement will work better if private investigators are able to show their knowledge and skills. What's more, most of them are experienced law enforcement workers who are not currently retired. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis of its further development in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u57	I understood the committee's proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, are any of the deputies still insisting on their speech? I see two hands. National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, you are all, especially those who engage in entrepreneurial activities that engage in political activities, know how vulnerable the problem of the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen is. And if a person turns to law enforcement often, often the law enforcement authorities cannot protect him. And the court can't. We know he's corrupt, he can't protect us either. It is said that there is not enough evidence to protect human rights. Thus, private investigators, as business operators, will help to build this base for the protection of human rights and freedoms. They'll help the law enforcement agencies, help the court make the right decisions. Moreover, private detectives are usually people who once worked, predicted, and people who once worked in the law enforcement system who have great experience. In the end, there will be a judicial branch of power. And besides, these people, they work on a private basis. And according to the legal basis, they collect the necessary materials. The calculation will go to the budget. Thus, from two points of view, the protection of the rights and freedom of the citizen, it is beneficial. And in terms of increasing the state budget, it's also beneficial. If you take a foreign experience. Take any European country, the United States, Japan, the developing countries -- everywhere there are appropriate laws that allow for private detective activity. She, this bill has long been "walking" in Parliament's walls. And as Secretary of the Committee on Legislative Security, I can argue that when we considered it on our committee, all the members of the various factions voted in favour of adopting this bill in the first reading. I urge the MPs to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u60	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich! Dear voters, dear colleagues! I would like to say literally a few words of practical activity that this law is, and how important it is to us today. We've already been told that we have to make decisions based on the interests of our constituents. So, I met before I came to Parliament, with the activities of lawyers. And in situations where a lawyer, representing the interests of a citizen, is in unequal conditions because the whole system is working on charges or on prosecutors in criminal proceedings. The whole system works. Both the investigating authorities and the other authorities provide this information, giving all the arguments they need to interpret the charges and use them properly in the formation of a legal position. With regard to the position of counsel, and we talked about this when we prepared a new version of the Law on Lawyers, he often does not have any instrument to provide arguments in favour of his subordinate or the person he represents. And in this context, the role of private investigators who can professionally gather information that can enable a lawyer to work, to make these arguments, and to give the court the opportunity to establish the truth as objectively as possible. That is why this law is necessary. This activity is not purely entrepreneurial. And in my opinion, we need to adopt this law as a basis and, by working on it for the second reading, allow the citizens of Ukraine to use the mechanism that operates in the entire civilized world and to introduce those standards for the protection of human rights and freedoms and the citizen that we want to use in terms of European integration. Thank you for your attention. And please support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u61	Thank you. And I refer to the author of the law, he insists on the closing word. Please, Victor Dmitrovich. In parallel, I am addressing the secretariat with an order, please make an announcement for all deputies to approach the session room to make a decision. Please, Victor Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u62	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, first of all, I wanted to express my sincere thanks to all the people's deputies who were actively involved in discussing this very important bill and to talk about the following. It was absolutely right for our colleagues to say that this law is an extremely important tool in ensuring the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. And the adoption of this law, by the way, I would like to emphasize this in particular, maybe, and be that catalyst to change our entire law enforcement system. You see, this law stops the monopoly of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we give citizens the opportunity to protect them with the help of professional people and to defend their rights and freedoms. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I see that the main support of this bill is in the hall. When I reported to him, I also talked about his need for further work. But not in the first reading, but in the first and second reading. And it would be absolutely right and appropriate if all the representatives of public organizations, scientific institutions, were involved in its work, which, in view of the current state of affairs, had made appropriate adjustments to this law, which would only improve its legal content. Now, what I want to say is that in the first reading, honourable colleagues, only the concept of this law is accepted. I think that none of the speakers questioned the validity and correctness of the legal concept of this law. And as for the changes and additions that will make this law even better and even more so, which will serve the interests of our citizens, I think it is only to be welcomed. But I think we've got a situation now, Alexander Valentine's Day, where there's not enough national MPs in the room who can pass this law. And the previous vote has shown that we have no possibility of adopting decisions today. So I would very much ask that we be able to vote on this law, for example, tomorrow. Today, we limit ourselves to discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u63	The German National MP wants to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, there is a strange situation in Parliament. Yesterday we were unable to vote because there was no parliamentary majority in the hall. Today again there are proposals to postpone the vote to tomorrow, for there is still no parliamentary majority in the room. As an opposition, we stand ready to support those bills that go to the social protection of the people. But we ask you very much, to influence the ruling coalition, the parliamentary majority, to do their duty to the state and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u65	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that yesterday the Supreme Council adopted very important questions: four legislative acts, which are related to the fight against corruption, the protection of human rights, but most importantly, the granting of a simplified visa regime to Ukraine. And yesterday, in Brussels, it was announced that the second phase of the transition to a simplified and, in the future, to a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens with the European Union was signed. This is a very important step, I thank Parliament for this. That's why we can work, work effectively. Another question is that discipline in factions, I agree with you, is at a very low level. Dear colleagues, come on. Well, the lines. Now, let's put this to a vote with you. National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, a very important bill. And the discussion showed that the factions represented in Parliament and the groups would support it. I have an offer to postpone, a discussion took place, to postpone the vote to the next day. Thank you. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, is this proposal supported? This proposal is supported. Yeah? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Still, let me make an estimate by the vote. Let's hit it, yeah. And I will announce the presence in the hall of the people, yes, the factions who are responsible, and the deputies who are responsible for their duties. Let's have a signal vote on this law. Please. Please activate the "Council" system for the signal vote. [[11:38:59]] For 169 169 deputies took part in the signal vote. The factions, please. 26 – Party of Regions, 41 – Fatherland, 16 – Impact, 16 – Economic Development, 21 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 25 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional 24. Dear colleagues, the only thing you understand is that I am addressing all the deputies, the faction leaders, that by this attitude towards our constitutional duties, colleagues, we are completely compromising Parliament and speeding up the completion of its work. Perhaps this is an objective process. Dear colleagues, I want to make an announcement now. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional Union for Peace and Stability in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Interfractional Union for Peace and Stability was elected the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Gruszewski Vitali Anatoliyovich. And there were 15 national deputies. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next question. The registration number of this issue 4081 is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the level of social protection of war veterans. Please report to National Deputy Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u68	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u69	Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, let's consult with the hall. Can we consider the simplified procedure? We can. Please support the consideration of this issue by means of a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:40:53]] For-126 There's no desire for MPs. The decision was not taken. 126 votes in favour. So we're working on a full procedure, fellow believers, let's take a full look at this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u70	My friends, I'm going to report briefly because it's not about the Mikli Tomenka legislative initiative and Valery Suskevitch or my friends and colleagues who went through Afghanistan and who are present here in the Supreme Council. This is about proposals that have been made by all the public organizations that represent the participants in the fighting in Afghanistan. It's not so much about any novelty or introduction into legislation as it is about clarifying those rules that are not actually implemented or interpreted differently by officials. The point is that we have, as you know, a general law, and it's about clarifying or amending the part of the law that deals with the social protection of war veterans. And a few positions I'm going to give you right now, the ones that are causing misunderstandings in social policy offices or doubling their interpretation. The first position relates to settling and establishing the status of a family member of a deceased member of the fighting and, accordingly, the social status resulting from it. A general article of the law, which lists all members of the armed forces, is interpreted in the way that such status, in the event of the death of a wartime participant, extends only to members of the family during the Great War. This was interpreted by officials. And so my colleagues very much asked us to make it very clear that since the status of a member of the fighting today will also extend to a member of the fighting in Afghanistan, so when it comes to the wives of the disabled or those involved in the fighting during Afghanistan, the status of a member of the family of the deceased member of the fighting is also given to the participants in the war in Afghanistan. The second position is that, as you know, I do not understand very well what was the reward of the system during the Great Homeland War. But in Afghanistan, there was a situation where there were actually black and white Afghans. That is, some Afghans who served somewhere away from headquarters were not always on time or at all, although they were given a single number of times, especially for ordinary soldiers and sergeants. And so another rule of law has created this unpleasant situation for us, it has divided the Afghans into those who have been able to win war rewards and those who have not been able to win war rewards. That is, a large number of people who went through Afghanistan, which is the order of two years of service, the sergeants served for about eight years, a year and nine months, and some even more than two years of service, and, let's say, because of this staff bureaucracy, they didn't get the fight rewards, and they don't get one of the rules of status as a participant in combat. The third position relates to the situation, in our view, also unfair, that when it comes to humanitarian aid in the automobile sector. So for today, this is what the situation looks like. If a disabled person dies, a member of a war effort, and family members can get that car, they still have to pay extra taxes, congregations operating on the day of the car’s customs. That's our offer. If this car is more than 10 years old, we understand the condition. Imagine, for 10 years this car, a disabled person died, and the family has to pay all taxes and congregations to leave it. It's not that fantastic money. Thus, in part of this rule, if a car in the family is more than 10 years old and at this point a disabled person has died, the car is passed on free of charge to family members. And the last position. We're clarifying everything about vacations, so that they're the same, this rule that applies to holidays as a veteran of war has spread and has been clarified, because it's being interpreted twice by social workers and participants in combat in Afghanistan. There's a moment about the fact that I've been criticized here, that we're still taking, that we're kind of expanding the government's social responsibility, we're some of the clarifying norms that are reducing, I'd say benefits. They are related to the fact that today there are certain categories of military personnel who, under certain local circumstances, are not in combat. We're interpreting this, and today's clear rule that you're a participant in combat is you can get when you're involved in actual combat actions, let's say not in learning or other things. As a result, honourable colleagues, I would like to support this bill, to vote on it in the first reading. And obviously, we still have to work with the ministries, because it's about how the law is going to be implemented by the Ministry of Social Policy, with the Ministry of Finance to work to clarify financial positions, and only then to accept it as a whole. Alexander Valentinovich, given that our analysis of the situation in the session room shows that we have the potential to adopt this bill, but this potential is lost today, I think it will be restored tomorrow morning, so that we don't vote for the bill. And so he asked you to hand over to our colleagues, who for about three months fit posts, to support the honest and principled position of the Tears of Tetjan Yaroslavna, who is the only one who actually wrote the application the day she was appointed, who is now working on the government-assured position of her. Regrettably, other classics of governmental activity are not yet in a hurry to write statements. So I would ask you to speed up this whole story, and then we would have at least 10 more people. Thank you, the report's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u71	Thank you. Valery Suškević has a report from the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. I think there's been a good enough report. The presentations can be commented on. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons on April 9, this year, at its meeting, considered the bill at number 4081. I mean, I'm one of the co-authors of the bill, along with my colleague Tomenko. And it's important that we write this bill, sorry, I'm not going to be the head of the committee, and as head of the committee, at the request of the people, the veterans of Afghanistan, the participants in the hostilities, their families, who asked for these issues to be resolved, and to be clearly anchored in the Ukrainian legislative field. And that's very important, and I would like to ask all factions to pay attention to the fact that this bill is not just an initiative of the national MPs. It is a real initiative of people who realize that it is necessary to protect those who have protected the Ukrainian state and those who have done their duty to the country. As noted, the bill aims to strengthen the social protection of war veterans and disabled persons, particularly those involved in combat. First. The bill deals with the problem of establishing the status of a family member of a deceased member of the fighting. It has already been said that, in fact, there are today instances of refusal to establish such a status that leads to numerous complaints and appeals that are very much coming to the committee. The bill proposes to grant real veterans the right to additional leave with a salary of 14 working days, irrespective of special State rewards and the recognition of them as disabled. These are the people who were involved in the fighting, who were directly involved in the fighting. And today it is proposed that this bill grant them the right to receive an additional leave of 14 working days a year with a salary saved. Today this situation is, well, in the legislative field in a different order and without saving wages. The other one. What is proposed today by the bill is the issue of granting the right to own a car recognized by the humanitarian aid provided to the disabled by the social protection authorities, after the death of a disabled person or a disabled child, one of the family members without paying taxes and congregations, irrespective of the term of use of such a car. I want to remind you that today this car is being passed free of charge if it's more than 10 years old. Otherwise, under the conditions of paying taxes and assemblies or transferring it by, well, a very difficult and lengthy procedure to the Ministry of Social Policy, which often doesn't know where it is, where it's going to be. Moreover, the disabled person is involved in fighting, this car is self - sustaining, self - repairing, because often as humanitarian aid is not new, and virtually everything that has been put on by a disabled person to drive this car is actually removed from the family after his death if it is less than 10 years old. We've talked about this a long time ago, this is what our voters are talking about, and I'd like to pay attention to it, and yet some people are asking for a decision that is relevant to this legislative imperfect situation. In addition, the bill proposes to clarify the grounds for establishing the status of a participant in hostilities, such as the establishment of such status for persons who were involved in the hostilities by the military commanders of state organizations in the exchange of fields and objects of the national economy and for persons who participated in the mining of mines established in territories and neutral waters during the period of hostilities. The bill proposes to preserve the status of a party to the hostilities by persons who have already been recognized as parties to the hostilities in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans. I want to say that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office fully supports the bill and believes that the results of the first reading can be accepted as a basis. I ask all factions to support this socially important bill. What is more, he touches our battle comrades and fighters, which today too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u73	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u74	..our military personnel who today defend the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions. The word is given to the people's representative of Tobacco, the "Economic Development" by the MPs. Please. The word is given to the Peace People's Deputy, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u76	Please give the floor to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u77	Please. I ask Edward Leonov to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u78	Thank you very much. Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. My friends, distinguished national MPs! We should point out that when we discuss very important social bills in the session room, we see a whole bunch of empty places. Dear opposition, please, it's a matter of opposition to fight for social rights. If you want to be a real opposition, respectable regions, and Communists, come to the session hall and work. That's the first one. It's different. We should not forget when discussing any laws that establish the status of veterans, the status of victims during hostilities, the fighters who are now taking part in the anti-terrorist operation. Today, our fighters are killed and injured. And in every bill that deals with social guarantees, social guarantees, social security for participants in combat, we should certainly mention those guys who are now on the front line protecting us from terrorists, from aggressors, from the invaders. As for the bill itself, of course it needs to be supported. And the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support it. Of course, until the second reading, after the adoption of it in the first reading, we need to make substantial changes, including the technical legal nature. And basically. You know, because, for example, when it comes to a car that is passed on to a family of a dead veteran, it's not always a family that wants to take that car, that pile of metal scraps that need to be served and can't be used anymore. We should also consider those veterans who still do not have the cars promised by the State. And by adopting similar laws, we need to mention the need to provide for those who are not provided. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will make its proposals, its changes, its amendments. But first of all, when we talk about any social issues, we have to think not only about the past, but about the present. Because people are dying now, and now people are getting hurt, and now there are people who already need social security today, and they need a state of social rehabilitation. Well, I'm a criminal, and I can't help but remind the Supreme Council that yesterday, a draft of the Social Support Order of the people who have become refugees in their own state in the last two months has not been passed through the session hall. People who have left their homes in Crimea, eastern Ukraine, and are forced to hide from the criminal regimes that are now trying to occupy our state. So I ask, Your Honor Chairman, to return to the draft regulation 4510 and provide social guarantees to the refugees of the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u79	Thanks for the offer. A national MP from Momot Dniproperty, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u80	Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, give me the word of Morozenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u81	Please, I'd like the People's Deputies of Frostenka to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u82	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! MP Morozenko, Dnepropetrovsk. I would like to say a few words on this bill. We discussed it on the committee. And all factions, representatives of all factions, voted unanimously in favour of it. This is a very important bill that seriously simplifies the procedure for obtaining a number of substantial benefits for persons with disabilities. This is particularly true of the cars mentioned by our colleague Suškević. It is wrong for a disabled person to return to the State within a certain period of time after the invalid's departure. This creates a lot of problems for the disabled family. This creates a mass of problems for the State. Because a car like this is very problematic. I'd like you and I to support this bill, all of you here in this room. I understand we don't have enough votes. Try to concentrate. And I would like to ask the deputies who have left to come to the hall and vote in favour of the bill. And I would very much like to ask everyone not to include political points in this consideration. It is indeed a necessary law for all of our most vulnerable, most vulnerable categories of our citizens, our people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u83	Thank you. National MP Yavorowski, please. A trinity, I recall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u84	That's right, Trinity, Vladimir Yavorowski. Our venerable veterans, members of the fighting! Ladies and gentlemen, our constituencies! Until recently, we Ukrainians have even boasted in front of foreigners that we have gained independence, the restoration of our Ukrainian state without a drop of blood. It turns out that this independence is still to be paid in blood. Unfortunately, the Ukrainians are paying for it today. It seemed that the theme of the participants in the fighting, the frontists in Ukraine, was already closed. No, not like that. It remains relevant today. Because I think that this very important bill we should think about, we should have adopted it before May 9th. That would be the real mark of our frontists and our fighters. And it's not fake parades, but today they're needed, as was the case in Moscow, where guns were falling, -- halfway across Europe, there was a landing of Russian tanks, a military superstate, armed with teeth, and that was demonstrated. Indeed, this bill is a real attention to our and the veteran frontists, who are now 80, under 90 years old, and to those who participated in fighting abroad, in other republics. And our most recent heroes and participants have already fought for Ukraine, for Donetskina, and even for the same Crimea. Because of this, the bill is very important and necessary. I want to stress once again, and it's very important that we be heard by the very people that this bill concerns. It's a 14-day extension, it's very, very important. This is because their children or their wives, if they have not married for the second time, have the same right to benefits. And there was a lot of talk here, and it's very fair that all MPs probably know how many people come to us and with these unfortunate ones, let God forgive me, cars that, not cars, remain people, but are left with a problem, from a disabled person after his death. Because I insisted and I talked to Mikola Tomenko, and he said to me that it was not up to the central authority to decide to leave this car to the family, where he is not there, and that should be decided somewhere at the district level, not above. You can imagine going to this family, going to Kiev, beating the thresholds or the Ministry of Social Protection, or some other institution that's authorized to do so, and that's to be decided, literally, once again, at the level of the district center. This bill, once again, has to be passed. This is a document that, indeed, Ukraine proves that it honors the people who participated in the fighting, in the fights for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u85	Thank you. National Deputy Cibenko, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u86	Fellow citizens of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko. A faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you once again what the law is called. On amending some Ukrainian legislation on raising the level of social protection of war veterans. It would seem, in the 70s of the Great Victory, in the 25th year of the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, who will not vote in favour of this bill. But, you know, this bill once again confirms the truth that very often the problems lie in the little things that are in the text of the law. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine has three distinct positions: Position one. It's that we certainly support the two-week extra paid leave for war invalids, participants in combat. This does not give rise to any doubt. We will certainly support that. A second norm that raises not only questions but also objections. So listen carefully, fellow believers. In the Humanitarian Aid Act after the death of a disabled child, a disabled person is recognized for the humanitarian aid provided by the public authorities! It may be transferred to one of the family members by decision of the central executive body, which implements public policy in the area of social protection. Ladies and gentlemen, if we leave the wording, I assure you, no one will get a car, not even a rusty car. Our position is to write clearly, "It's passed free," two words. It's shorter and clearer. It's passed on for free. And the third position. This is what we insist that the 10th article, which defines the list of individuals to whom the law applies, do not touch. I was told by my colleagues that we were a little tight, but we didn’t lose any category. But once again, don't touch the 10th article of the Law on Status. So I put the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine on this issue. I support the fact that the subject is extremely important. The subject is extremely topical. Believe that the Committee on Social Policy and Work is very often approached by people. So we have to take the spice maker's office and give the law to make it clear and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, any of the national MPs insist on speaking? I see two hands. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u88	Let's finish the question, and we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, this bill, as it was noted here, was quite appropriate, the initiative of Afghan veterans. And we must worship our heroes and testify that those who have protected the state will always be honored and will always remember them. The adoption of this bill will give a good signal to Ukrainian society, especially those who today defend the honour and dignity of the Ukrainian State. Science-expert management, yes. The profile committee is in. So when I listened to my colleagues from other factions and groups, I realized that they were in favor. And our Economic Development Group also supports this important, socially-important bill. We can't help but agree with Peter Stepanovich Cibenko's comment, it's appropriate. I need this "has." and make an imperative that will clearly allow the car to be passed on to family members free of charge, free of charge, and automatically. The project envisions a change in the conditions for the transfer of a car after the death of a disabled person to the property of a family member. We support that. The project envisions an expansion of the number of people with benefits, family members of the dead war veterans — and we support it. The project involves the introduction of an additional paid vacation of 14 days. We support that, too. And the project provides for individuals who have special privileges before their Father to increase the vacation period from 14 days to 21 days. We also support it. Alexander Valentine's Day, ask you to postpone voting on this important social-important bill for tomorrow, because tomorrow there will certainly be more national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u91	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, in the East of our country, our Armed Forces, the co-workers of the law enforcement agencies of the foreign service, are fighting for the liberation of part of our country's territory from terrorists, diversans, invaders -- all those who want to dismember, split our country and give it to the enemy. The task of the Supreme Council, the task of the entire Ukrainian people -- all as one must support our glorious Armed Forces, those who fight today and defend the peaceful heavens above our heads. The task of the Ukrainian Government is to provide maximum support, social protection and assistance to members of the families of military personnel, especially those who, unfortunately, have been killed by terrorists supported by communists and regionals, by the Yanukovich gang, on the front in the fight for Ukraine's only and independent. Today, a major military officer who risks his life every minute has 3.5 thousand wages, and, at least, 2-3 thousand he pays for renting an apartment. Why live for him, why live for his family and his children? And when our heroes are killed, who will help them? And the vast majority of them do not have their own home at all, as opposed to those who shed crocodile tears on the rostrum, especially the commies, as they struggle for social protection, let Simonenko place her five - story mansion for Ukrainian military personnel so that they do not stray from rented or rented apartments. I ask the Acting President of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov, to give an immediate mandate to the government to provide housing for all members of the anti-terrorist operation in the East of our country. There are not so many of them, and there is an opportunity from the State Budget to allocate funds. Today terrorists pay $500 to those who kill our people! And our military officers get 3,000 dollars a month. So I'm asking the government to predict, as a minimum, 1,000 dollars a day to the anti-terrorists who risk their lives. Well, most of all. If we want to protect the country, if we want to bring order to our country, we need to start with the Supreme Council, start with those who betrayed Ukraine, from the Yanukovich gang, and from the Communists who need to be taken to the outposts, let them not hide there.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I beg of you, National Deputy Rudzkowski, and we're putting the risk under discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I believe that this law that we have discussed must be adopted tomorrow at an early meeting. Sadly, though, we are now discussing social security for families, for women who will lose their family member in war. Let's go now, Alexander Valentinovich, I'm addressing you, I'm addressing all the deputies on the right and the left. There was no possibility to vote on the law passed by the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the holding of a legitimate all-U.S. referendum, whereby we could be determined in an all-U.S. legal referendum, Ukraine as a unitary or federal state, Russian as a national language or as a language in a particular region. I propose to add to this question, also Ukraine is oriented and moving to Europe or to the Customs Union, Ukraine is a non-blocking state or will join some blocs. If we appoint this legitimate referendum, first of all, the one who will interfere with this referendum, along with the election of the President, he does not care about the integrity of the state and does not care about Ukraine, nor does he care about stability. Secondly, we will definitely hold the President's election in the East and people will come and express their position. Come on, now there's a possibility that if everyone talked too much about the referendum, that it would take off the tension, what are we afraid of? We're afraid the whole of Ukraine doesn't want to live in a whole state? No, she wants to live in a peaceful, stable state. Let's look at this question, vote, take out speculation. So that no political force, no false politicians, would speculate on people's thoughts, incite them, lift them up, or see what we see now. People die every day. That's the first question. The second question. I'm introducing the law to the Supreme Council today, and I insist that tomorrow I vote for it, in the first round, to appoint the President of Ukraine. There's a war coming. How many people will die between the first and the second rounds? Who Will Take Responsibility? We must not provide for the ambition of the second-rounder, we must take care of the people, Ukraine, the future, in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Final word to the committee head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, please note, from the political problems we will return to our veterans, members of the fighting, including those who defend the Ukrainian state today. I want to thank all the factions that supported my legislative proposals along with National Deputy Tomenko. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, they all agreed that if we could still put him to the vote tomorrow, when the hall would be more filled. So I do have a request to put and not to forget tomorrow about our participants in the fighting and to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you all for supporting this legislative standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u96	I see. Most of the proposals were about voting on this law tomorrow. I think we're going to listen to the proposals of the national MPs. And now there's a break for half an hour, up to 12 hours for 45 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u97	The Supreme Council continues its work. But I'm again addressing the MPs, the faction leaders. Of course, this attitude towards the work of the higher legislature is disrespect, first of all, for our electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u98	"Freedom" I see, yes, the truth isn't all. Dear colleagues, please, let's take a look at the bill. Mr. Jaroslav, are you ready to report? Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. Draft Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition on State Control of Concentration of Hosts. Please, National Deputy Suhi has the inspiration and desire to report this draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! I'll start with two suggestions. First offer. There was never a parliamentary session Sunday, two weeks before the presidential election. All the more to such ridiculous, twisted, curly, upside down with those high scores that I don't understand. And next week there'll be no one in this room at all. That's the first offer. And a second offer. I understand we're not in the middle of a reduced procedure. And a second offer. It would be good if we, for example, first looked at the first reading and then listened to the introduction to the agenda. What's more, many people today didn't even know what these bills were about to put them into the agenda, what they were talking about. And there were, by the way, good things. So the bill that I'm reporting here. Even if each of us pressed five buttons, we still have no votes in the room. But I'm going to report this bill because it's about supporting one of the industries that is today in the high-tech industry, the aviation sector. Ukraine is one of the six nations of the world that can and can do today from design to airplane. And since last year, Ukraine has started releasing and producing a full cycle of helicopters, which today, under current conditions, are as vital as tactical weapons. The Law on Protection of Economic Competition was passed in 2000. In 2005, a change was made. It applied to the concentration of farming subjects. And then we figured out that it's not a concentration. I quote from this law: "It is not considered to be concentration and it is not necessary to obtain permission from the Antimonopoly Committee for the Establishment of Hosting Subjects when coordinating competitive behaviour between these operators. These actions are seen as concerted actions." Dear colleagues, today Ukraine needs a long time to buy shares from another airline, such as the Kiev plant or the Kharkiv factory, to wait: three months just to form documents on the Antimonopoly Committee, then a huge period of time, the Antimonopoly Committee that it will offer. Now, listen to what the government is saying and what the conclusions of the profiling committee indicate. He said that if a Ukrainian airline buys shares in an airline abroad, it would create an uncompetitive environment. Among whom? The Kyiv factory manufactures large Russians, AN-148, AN-158. The Kharkiv factory manufactures AN-72, AN-74, AN-140. Airplane and 410 are repairing. Sitch Motor, Progress is designed by engines and so forth. Harks does. aggregates, Dnipropetrovsk is a hydraulic system and so on. Who will have no competition? On the contrary, they agree. We have several competitors: Russia and Rolls Royce in Britain, and Lock. and Boeing in the United States. So let me highlight again6 we're going to go into those six countries in the world that can make the plane from start to finish, and from 2014, I remind you again, we're already releasing helicopters. And let's start at MI-8 to build a military tactical helicopter that can strengthen the power of our army. I'm talking about the Chief's conclusions. The Cabinet and the Committee. You see, the point is that accepting the proposals will create a risk of monopolization or a substantial restriction of competition in or much of Ukraine's commodity market. I remind you again, we don't have competition, we don't have competition, and we shouldn't have competition, because all these aircraft-building factories in Ukraine are all working on the same result – on a specific type of engines and on a specific type of aircraft. That's why I'm simple. Well, it's going to be the head of this profile committee, maybe it'll explain what it's about, what it's about, what it's about. One of the factories in Ukraine, the Fed, is producing aggregates for aviation engines. Who will he compete with? If we're given the right to buy such shares in foreign aviation factories, we get access to new, different ones. Or other, or better, or worse, but to some other technology. Airfare has a long deadline for ordering, aircraft building has a lot of fund-raising and fund-raising, so not only do we need these shares, we need high technology, we need to make changes to design, we need to make changes to aviation technology. For the rest. My colleagues, I'd like to ask you one more time. Planebuilding is the last high-tech bastion in Ukraine. Radioelectronics are already in place. Come on, let's go. The color metallurgy with the death of the Zaporozhye aluminum combination was closed. We have high technology here, in aviation and space, so I'd break through this bill to support it. It looks like this -- one sentence. One sentence in the amendments to article 22, which is not considered to be a concentration: the acquisition of shares of non-residents by aircraft construction entities that fall within the scope of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Development of Aircraft Industry. I think instead I'd have a profile committee start: to take up Article 2 of the Law on the Development of Planebuilding Industry, and there's a list of several companies that are part of the airline industry. By the way, the adjacent, for example the Volocchi machine factory, it also works for airplane construction. In Krasila's factory, the hops area, he also works for airplane construction. On Zacarpatta. That's right! I see that the audience in the case understands what aircraft construction is. So I'd like to ask this bill to support it. If not today, tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u100	We can do it today. Please, there is a question. Turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, dear reporter! If you could confuse the point with your speech, you have succeeded. What's with the Harks? What's with the Dnipropetrovsk? Please tell me, did I get the point of your bill correctly? It's about granting the right to buy non-resident shares in general. So what's Dnipropetrovsk for? Dnipropetrovsk – resident, Kharkiv – resident. Or, in other words, you're talking about letting other countries invest in airplane construction. Is that the point of the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u102	Why I read the nonresidents and why I counted the list of these airline companies. Because there's this observation: instead of residents, it's legal to use the term "foreign operators" more correctly. What we invest or what we don't invest, we get high-tech reports. What's the investment for? This is the first time. That's different. The factories listed in the bill are part of the aircraft construction system. This is what we're talking about. And the conclusion is that if we buy these shares, we'll create an anticompetitive environment -- where, among whom? Who else didn't understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, let's now hear a report from the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy. Cugella Alexander Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! It's when the bill we're considering doesn't match the report we've heard. I have great respect for the colleague of the People's Deputy Dry, and this is his district. He has, indeed, devoted his entire life politically to supporting a large, serious enterprise owned by Mr. Boguslaev, the Sic Motor. This is indeed a serious enterprise. Unfortunately, the drafters are not present in the Supreme Council at this session. But what I want to say is what it is. I fully support Jaroslav Dryho, because it's very important to invest money in this enterprise in new technologies, in developing construction offices, in creating any cooperation. To do so, you need to invest money rather than wash it off. And if the owner of the company wants to buy shares in Russian or Boeing, then there's free money. Or he wants to buy from the money that is the profit of this company. Excuse me, send for the development of the Ukrainian company, expand and create the possibility of developing Ukrainian aircraft. Because we've already seen some of the political parties that took the plant to Zhivago and gave it to the Russians. They cut out our wheel couple, our best technology in this company, and they left. As they stopped, the Russians, the aluminum plant in Zaporozhye, as they stopped the Lysician oil refinery and many others. There is no possibility today in Ukrainian aircraft construction, which is indeed a situation not very widespread for competitiveness, to give the right without the Antimonopoly Committee to wash money from the enterprise and to buy shares from non-residents. There's a desire, let's see how the money goes. Please go through all the technology, and then it'll be okay. Committee position. Reject the bill because it is not in the interest of developing Ukrainian aircraft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to make a statement on this matter? Please, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u106	Alexander Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, 27th District. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Perhaps Jaroslav Suhi did not tell us exactly what he was going to say. We're one of the states that in the world probably has 10 things that can design, build and teach airplanes. And for us, it's important that our products travel around the world. And Jaroslav Suhi offers to buy shares from a Russian or another foreign company that will then buy our engine, our aviation equipment. So I propose that we take into account the comments made in the committee's head, take as a basis in the first reading, and work on the second reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u107	I see. I see a few more deputies want to speak. National MP Kartashov, please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! I think if we want to bury a case, it's very simple for us, it's done by hanging a label. Here, he made a written report today. Yes, perhaps he was not entirely in line with the appointment of the object that was spoken here. But I know one thing. In order to maintain the aircraft today, our factory must work. And in order for it to work, you still have to look at the engine assembly chain. He cannot live today without suppliers that could be acquired abroad. And where the kits are especially used to assemble the aircraft's own engine. This whole scheme is clearly defined by too many links. These connections can't be broken. Here we have separate hurrah patriots who think that we should do everything ourselves without having the necessary technical or scientific development. And that's what they're burying the case with. We need to support this idea, we need to vote and “good” so that the combination can properly purchase the relevant projects and related equipment and related production abroad. That's when we can build our aircraft engine and be proud that we haven't just saved our potential, but we've acquired more opportunities to produce aircraft engines. All of this together today is one great deal of our work together. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not just that, if we look at it further and say that we must support the national producer today, this is a specific path and examination for all and everyone who is present in this room and who will take part in the vote. Let us support today in order to preserve this production and to have the prospect of further development. I think that many who would like to support our national producer today must say yes to this issue. And I think we have to do this. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u109	Please turn on the microphone of People’s Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u110	Alexander Stoyan, MP's Economic Development Group. Dear colleagues, we know Jaroslav Dryhog as a person who has been involved in social protection for many years, job creation, job protection, and we can never blame him for lobbying anyone's interests, such as, say, Russians or anyone else. It lobbies the very good interests of further development of aircraft construction in Ukraine. And I think there may be some remarks, some inadequacies, but this bill needs to be supported. We know the serious manager of this company, Boguslaev, we know the high weight and significance of its helicopters, engines, and so forth. And the second. Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm looking at the hall, well, today there's not going to be many people, tomorrow's probably going to be any less, Friday's not going to be any more, not at all. We've discussed a series of very important social laws today, and it's very positive that we've approached the social laws and the veterans of war, and other categories, and tomorrow, well, I have doubts that these laws will be voted on, that they would be voted on. That's why I have this proposal, Alexander Valentinovich, to the discretion of the deputies. Let's work tomorrow in 12 hours, see how we're going to do the voting work for these bills that we've considered today and carried away, if there's no people, well, sorry for the word, we don't have to kill MPs, on the one hand. On the other hand, many deputies have obligations, and they accompany candidates to the Presidents. Let's close the Supreme Council tomorrow, because on Friday, if you ask the government, it'll be a shame that the ten will sit here. We'll close and close until the presidential election. That's what we've always done before the presidential election. Sunday was on the committees, Sunday was in the districts. Because each MP or part of the MPs has a certain obligation to the presidential candidates. And just sitting here, and we see your good will and desire to organize a job, but you can't do it at all, because you can't blame all the deputies for going somewhere, for hanging out, or for walking around. They carry out certain political tasks. So my first offer. Support the first reading of Suhigo’s bill. Second offer. Consider organizational issues tomorrow after 12 o'clock, and then identify yourself. And then when we pick the President on the 25th there, let's say we go on the first tour or two tours, we can work and catch up for two weeks. Moreover, Alexander Valentinovich, in these days we have adopted very substantial, principled laws. You yourself said that today, related to European integration, related to the laws required of us by the European Union and many others. And these are our internal laws, our social laws, our important laws, we need to adopt them. But there is a guarantee that they will be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Chechetov National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u112	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! The fight for a whole, indivisible, independent Ukraine is not only on political ground but also on economic ground. Another great thinker and classic once said that politics is a concentrated expression of the economy. In the economic arena, we also fight in the field of energy, gas, coal, high technology, aviation, space. And everywhere, we must help to strengthen our positions, strengthen them, and, in general, only then will we be successful, and in general, we will stand firm both economically and politically. This law should therefore be considered in the context of the success of the economic area for Ukraine, which should also contribute to the political success of our Ukraine. Thank you. Please support and adopt the bill on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u113	Please, the People's Deputy Peacemaker insists on his word. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u114	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Interestingly, it is those groups or factions that put forth the relevant bill and insist on it that are practically halved. So we see clearly that there are individuals, there are individual representatives who are in pain, there is no concern for others. And we don't have to hide ourselves by saying that we have to protect national interests. If we are to defend national interests, we should probably start by putting in order a daily bill of illustration. This is the protection of national interests. If we are to defend national interests, we should vote in favour of the bills that are being passed in the hall to support and vote in favour of different types of people, including people with disabilities and the victims and participants in the fighting. If we're talking about this law, let's call it, again, things with our names. There are stronger manufacturers, there are weaker ones. And the stronger, by covering up the weaker ones, when we mention the Krasilova aggregate plant that works for airplane construction, that's how it works. But first of all, it's a state plant, second of all, it's only working for the Russian Federation. Well, you don't have to hide behind them, but you have to make it clear that yes, I'm the manager, the owner, I see my way of development. It's okay, it's honest, it's right. But then, really, let's take the money out of the profit and invest. Or is the bill an opportunity, for example, for foreign entities to enter Ukraine and buy shares. Because, I'm sorry, the Russian Federation has exactly that kind of technology problem. And why, when you remember, Janukovich had a huge desire for joint projects in the aerospace field and because they didn't have a rafter. And you know that any technology comes first. And they have nuclear submarines, and they don't have rockets for them, so they had to go up to the South German and take possession of those technologies. So let us be honest with ourselves. Maybe the bills are needed, but not for that kind of defense, but for those who are actually working for the state. And the desire to buy technology is a normal desire, but then, at your own expense, you don't have to demand that you give me special conditions. Because we remember the features of privatization of many metallurgical ones, such as the combinations that were used here in the Supreme Council, in this room, and how it ended. Let's stop playing these games. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u115	Thank you. National Deputy Kaplin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u116	People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina. 144 constituency. Personally, I believe that we can and should find understanding on this subject. I will, frankly, persuade, try to convince our faction, perhaps in some respects, to change my position and find a golden middle in solving that truly serious economic dilemma. Against the backdrop of a completely stupid, incomprehensible and incomprehensible norm for me, to regulate the antitrust committee of this position, which concerns international industrial commerce or international external economic relations. We have to say that we really have a serious problem after breaking up our external economic relationship with Russia. It's obvious that we're going to have these difficulties and we're going to face them in the next five years, if we're going to be president of the country, Putin Vladimir Volodymyrovich. And that's why our nation has to produce a meaningful, smart, taking into account the interests of, among other things, the Motor City, the strategy of diversifying the structure of the economy and taking into account, mainly, the interests of those labour groups and owners of such strategic regions of enterprises. So I believe that since this decision is obviously not going to be made today, there is great doubt about the appearance of the national deputies to work tomorrow, especially the day after tomorrow. We will be able to conduct appropriate consultations, make our proposals in order to ensure the interests of the national economy and minimize the external economic risks to our strategic economic interests in the context of this bill and, by making decisions on this problem, to form an entire national strategy for the behaviour of enterprises such as Motorsic in these difficult conditions, we do not have to leave these enterprises alone with this complex challenge, we need to help and preserve the workforce and work on these enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I see your hands, I give my word. The only question is, we're starting to calm ourselves down that tomorrow people will be gone. Tomorrow we have a regular day's work, Thursday. And I believe that both the leaders and the factions of the groups are obliged to ensure that there are MPs when MPs need additional reminders to work. After the next week, really, there's one week left before the election campaign is over, we can talk to you about the issue and make a format next week that will allow many to participate in the election campaign or to provide for its organization. But I say again, after tomorrow, there can be no hints, we'll work and we'll vote on the laws. And, dear fellows, we've already made concessions today to put the vote to a stand. Next time we won't put up a vote. You will thank your fellow Members for failing the laws. Turn on the microphone for the Zarubinsky National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u118	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Actually, first of all, you took away those words that I was going to say and why I took the floor for. You know, the proposals for Parliament to be closed to the presidential elections are completely unclear to me, and I don't accept them. Whoever's out there, let 'em run. Why should the Supreme Council take into account that someone is engaged in a competitive fight? Let's stop this conversation. As a well - known widow, we cut ourselves off, we have to stop it. One more moment. Here yesterday, someone offered to set up tours and gather people here for the Supreme Council, and I'd like to offer tours to my fellow factions to make them come to the meetings. That would be a better option. It's about Suhogo's bill. You know, they say you shouldn't look at who's the author of the bill, and I'm watching. I've known this man for many years, and I always know that he's defending the interests of Ukrainian aircraft construction. Not American, not Russian, but Ukrainian aircraft. And there's more. When a colleague made their impressions on this bill, I thought, how many of these enterprises are in Ukraine at the "Motor Sich" level? Enterprises that, first of all, don't do shopping and comproding, but that actually do produce a competitive product, a competitive product. I couldn't count 10 more, honestly. We have whole regions where there is no enterprise at this level. And so when I say again, it's Dry that offers this option, we can't push it off the threshold. Perhaps there is a need to think about how to avoid situations where an antitrust committee is not worth anything. Because I am, for example, convinced that the Antimonopoly Committee is one of the key tools of economic competition, the United States Antimonopoly Committee can do anything. He's forcing Bill Gates to split his business into two parts. So do not reject this bill. If there is no support, allowing the author to work on it. And to remember that we have not so many businesses that do not engage in trades, but in real production of competitive products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, we have, you see how the discussion is going. And, you see, Parliament takes, in this case, not quantity, but quality, including performances. I can't help but give my word to Deputy Potter, and I can see one more hand. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u120	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! I understand that our political and economic activities are ultimately based on the final result of the budget, the country's budget. And this country's budget, if financially balanced, is a positive one. This positive financial instrument is, of course, based on the work of all industrial enterprises, including what we are considering today. And I'd like to say more. When it comes to the possible consideration of a federal device today, the financial balance is ultimately and at the heart of this federal device. Financial balance of the region, region, city, area and country. And, of course, it is not possible to achieve positive results without financial balance. It is therefore necessary to support the bill. Because that is the basis of the economy and the basis of our budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, and we're putting the matter at risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! Thank you very much for the discussion, but I would like to pay attention to the preservation of the enterprise this bill has nothing to do with. Today, there is a transparent procedure for any enterprise that is a monopoly in Ukraine and wants to buy shares in a non-resident state, it has to go through an anti-monopoly committee procedure that protects the country's interests during the course of the procedure and checks all the necessary documents that we have provided for you by law. This bill only provides for a single procedure to be taken out of this case through the Antimonopoly Committee. Mr. Boguslaev wanted to buy a share of the stock, he left. Or Boeing, or Russia, and he bought his shares. It's a violation of the world's standards of competition, it can't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, we have exhausted time to discuss this matter. Please, for the closing statement, let us give Jaroslav Dryma the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I'm not the owner or the manager, I'm the author of two bills on State support for domestic aviation. If it wasn't for these two bills, if it wasn't for the political will of Parliament, we wouldn't have a field now, we wouldn't have an "AN-140" and an Iranian contract that brought Ukraine 4 and a half billion dollars for an airplane that the Iranians called "Iran-140." There wouldn't be an "AN-148" -- there wouldn't be an "AN-158. I want all the throaties who are blushing. To give Ukraine its path of market transformations together with independence, and that's our problem with you, why these market transformations don't provide a huge positive advantage. Stocks in market transformations don't need the permission of Gosplan, the Landplan, the skyscraper. They were buying, buying, and buying, just like they were selling and selling, because it's a market. This is quite different: it is about simplifying the procedure for a more expeditious solution to individual issues, state control over concentration, which should be conducted in a simplified manner. And now everyone's writing to the Antimonopoly Committee, who's looking hard for a monopoly, as if he doesn't know who we have as a monopoly. So this bill is designed to simplify the procedure. He has no relation to anything other than that Ukraine is demonstrating its potential for economic expansion throughout the world in plane building. The whole field is global and closely linked to one another. Please support the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us treat our national manufacturers with respect, and tomorrow we will make a decision on the matter under discussion. I hope that tomorrow the Supreme Council will be able to objectively evaluate this bill. Dear colleagues, before we go to the next question, I inform you that on 11 April of this year, according to articles 112, 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 5, 9 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice were appointed members of the Supreme Council of Justice: Bondar Sergey Volodymyrovich, Judge of the Supreme Economic Court; Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, National Deputy of Ukraine; Mazur Lydia Mikhailovna, a judge of the High Court for civil and criminal matters. In accordance with article 17 of the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, before taking office as a member of the High Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council. Before making an oath, I invite a member of the High Council of Justice of Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich to the rostrum. Please, Sergey Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u126	I swear conscientiously, honestly and impartially to perform the duties of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest judges and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u127	Thank you. A member of the Supreme Justice Council, Bondar Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to take an oath to the Supreme Council’s rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u128	I, Bondar Sergey Volodymyrovich, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u129	Thank you. To make an oath to the Supreme Council’s rostrum, a member of the High Council of Justice, Mazur Lydia Mikhailn, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u130	I, Mazur Lydia Mihailovna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to serve as a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and to uphold the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the members of the High Council of Justice by taking an oath and wish them to shoulder their responsibilities in a dignified and responsible manner so that we can actually restore confidence in the judicial system of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! We have an opportunity with you to consider the draft Law on Electronic Commerce, which was developed by National Deputy Bilkova Olga Valentinovna. The registration number of this 2306 project. And I invite Olga Valentinovna to the rostrum. Please. In full, but you can speak for short.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, thank you very much for the opportunity to report today on a bill that actually sets some possibilities for Ukraine's new economy. It is difficult to speak today and urge you to vote for bills that do not have such a direct impact on the situation in Ukraine. And yet I'm going to try to find an argument for you to understand that the actual economic situation that we're in today, the whole of our country, including the reason for this, is that too long has been the decision to modernize the economy, too long has Ukraine and Ukraine depended on the constant and, well, very old markets for our production. Unlike many other bills, the bill on electronic commerce does not actually regulate the relationship in the market, but rather overtakes it. What the market managed to do without us. Every year 17 million people in our country are buying online goods and ordering services. More than a hundred Internet companies working successfully in the small and medium business segment. They create thousands of jobs all over Ukraine. Internet penetration is now about 40 percent. That's not enough. But every year, Ukraine's Internet space is building, including Ukraine's economy, and 53 percent of Ukrainian users are already using the Internet to find any services. And online, and off-line. Experts estimate that it is electronic commerce that today amounts to $2 billion a year. But this figure could be tens of billions because many countries are already demonstrating tremendous growth. What is the problem with developing electronic commerce? Today, the State does not actually recognize electronic rights. And that's exactly what was initiated by a group of authors under my chairmanship to work on the bill on electronic commerce. By the way, the previous convening of the Supreme Council has never been successful in finding the time and opportunity to adopt this bill in the last two years. All the provisions of the bill are in line with the principles of the directives of the European Union, which regulates the same issue in the European Union. First, the electronic form of the contract will be compared to the paper form. This will allow subjects to use more freely the electronic form of rights on the same level as classical writing and to have protection in court. Secondly, the bill proposes a number of definitions that are necessary for both investment and judicial protection. Thirdly, the bill sets out the responsibilities of different players in the field of electronic commerce, which is fully in line with the practice of the European Union. Fourthly, the bill clearly sets out the list of rights and obligations both for the seller and for the buyer in the electronic right. Fifthly, it is proposed to make a number of changes that will reduce company documentation and optimize electronic accounting. Thus, the draft Law on Electronic Commerce proposes a number of novelties, in fact regulates the legal relations that have already been successfully established and need only regulatory consolidation. We have received a number of suggestions from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the National Bank of Ukraine, from the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, and in general most of these proposals are very correct. We plan to take most of them into account with the copyright team in preparing for the second reading. I'd like to ask the Head to postpone voting for tomorrow, taking into account the situation in the hall. And I think everyone who votes for this project will still be proud to become a tempo to developing electronic commerce in Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? There's a wish. Please include those who wish to share in the discussion. The word is given to the People's Deputy Marcinkov, the "Freedom" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u134	Please pass the word Alexia Petrovich Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u135	Alexi Petrovich Kayda, out on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u136	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's e-commerce bill proposes to define organizational and legal principles for the implementation of electronic commerce in Ukraine. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the need to establish clear legal requirements and mechanisms for electronic commerce. However, in view of the generality of the individual provisions, the introduction of the bill may cause the following problems. First. As for the status of natural persons who sell their goods on electronic auctions and the features of electronic auctions. According to part two of article 7 of the draft Law, natural persons have the right to realize their personal property and their intangible rights by making electronic rights on the basis of their own offers, if such actions are not related to systematic entrepreneurship. However, in electronic auctions, individuals often realize things that they simply do not need. I mean, in one year, one person can sell a lot of his stuff. And in such a case, such actions cannot be regarded as entrepreneurial activities. Yet another view may be that of the supervisory authorities, such as the tax office. Because, according to court practice, entrepreneurial activity is recognized as a systematic activity, that is, more than four times, aimed at earning profits. Moreover, it is not defined what status a person will have — the owner of a domain name, the organiser of electronic commerce, its obligations both to the seller and to the buyer, and what documents will be confirmed by the conclusion of a contract of sale, since the lettering goes between the buyer, the organiser of the trade, the seller and not between the buyer and the seller directly. The other one. The draft law does not take into account the specific features of websites that contain job orders. In this case, the customer of services is a legal person. However, the job information is posted on another company's website. Moreover, such a company can be a guarantor of the customer’s financial obligations to the contractor. However, the existence of intermediaries in the provision of certain services in the draft law is not included at all. Such problems may arise as a result of what they do. And the third. The draft law does not extend to a person whose subject is a person who has no registration in the territory of Ukraine, except in cases where the parties to the law have not specifically agreed to apply the law to their legal relationship. Yet electronic commerce is being done by many foreign websites that will place Ukrainian and foreign companies in unequal conditions. Given this, our faction will be supported in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u137	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u138	This bill will be supported in the first reading. But we insist that appropriate changes and proposals be made, and that certain paragraphs of this bill be specified. Thank you. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u139	Thank you. Today, the National MP Momot Alexander Ivanovich is working very actively. Please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u140	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I fully agree with my colleague Kaido, there are many questions in part and terminology, which is not reflected in our legislation, there are many other inadequacies. For example, why distribute the act of this law to individuals who are not businesses. Well, other questions. But we live in the 21st century, and we have to move on to new forms. So I support the adoption in the first reading of the law as a basis. And process it for second reading and then accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u141	Thank you. National Deputy Kaplan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u142	People's Deputy Capplin. Please pass the word for important information to my colleague, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u144	Oleg Lazko. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I want to give you some very important information. Yesterday, along the border point of Doluzhanski in the Luhansk region, he left for the Russian Federation from Ukraine, the so - called People’s Governor of the Luhansk region of Valerius Bolotov. According to Assistant Head of State Border Services Sergio Astahova Bolotov, quoted literally as saying: "No, he has not fled, he has officially left through the point of passage of Dujansky as a Ukrainian citizen. As explained in the State Border Service, there were no orders for Bolotov by the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities. There was no ban on going abroad," Astahov said. I have a question for the Attorney General's Office, the State Border Service, the Security Service, and anyone else who tells us the whole country that you're conducting an anti-terror operation. How does a man, whose hands, the killings of our people, divide Ukraine, how did he freely cross the border? And it's said that there's no comment on it. What is this anti-terrorist operation? What are these boundaries? When he's not even on the ice, he's at the official point. Before that, I want to remind you, a week ago, Dennis Pushilin, the so-called head of the Donetsk People's Republic, was detained and released. At a border post in the Amrossiev district, his terrorists were detained, and weapons were taken from the border. I'm asking, do we have law enforcement or not? If we have murderers accused of treason like Bolotov, Separatism, free to go abroad, what is happening in our Ukraine?Oh, my God! Is it propaganda, is it imitation, or is it treason?Oh, my God! I'm asking the heads of law enforcement! I ask the Acting President of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov, to convene a meeting immediately on this subject. To find out why State traitors, murderers, can freely go abroad and ask about the release of those law - enforcement officials who allow such things. What anti-terrorist operation can we talk about when criminals can freely cross Ukraine’s borders?Oh, my God! It's a disgrace! It's treason! It's sabotage! It's a simulation of the fight against separatism and crime, and in fact, as we can see, there's no fighting if killers and criminals can go anywhere. I'm underlining. The official checkpoint went through, and no one even tried to hold him! It's a disgrace! It's a shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u145	I ask the Secretariat to provide an official mission to the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service and the State Border Service to provide official explanations on the fact that has now been announced from the Supreme Council. Sign this assignment immediately and give the deadline for three hours. Dear colleagues, who wants to make another statement from the question that we are discussing? There are no wanters. I see. Please. I'm out of glasses. Stojko, National Deputy, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, the information we have just heard from Oleg Laska, we really should not only take into account, but also listen, I think tomorrow we need representatives of the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service and the head of the Border Service to have reliable information. So in addition to asking Lalashka, I ask you tomorrow to invite the employees of this department, the services, to have information, not just us, but the whole of Ukraine, to hear that it's made in general in us both with an anti-terror operation and with the Border Service. In this case, if this man could walk freely outside of Ukraine, which he has already done here in Ukraine, not just a diversion, but a crime that should be punished, like me, for a large number of years, this man should be sitting behind bars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-14-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see so much that we have no further additions to the 2306 draft. We agree with you that we will consider this issue in a box with other laws that require us to make decisions. I hope the Supreme Council decides tomorrow. And now, dear colleagues, so that we don't work in the form of just talking, without voting, and without action. I call attention to faction leaders again, and I pay attention to all the national MPs about their constitutional duties: tomorrow at 10 a.m. Parliament will continue its work. Of course, the fact that has now been announced from the rostrum will be given an appropriate assessment. And immediately, I think the information from both the Security Service and the Border Service and the Public Prosecutor's Office will be published. Today, the Supreme Council finishes its work. Let's continue tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good-bye.
