ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:08:17]] There were 360 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. We're continuing the session. Please, the factions are registering. Region Party – 131, Fatherland – 79, Vitalia Klicka – 39, Freedom – 36, Ukrainian Company – 32, non-fractional – 43. Today is the birthday of the national deputy Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović and Ivanyushchenka Yuri Volodymirovich. Let's say hello. Dear National Deputies! The ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on condemning the use of violence that led to the death of people was signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u2	Respect the moment of silence for all the dead is your duty. You are the Head, announce a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday mass action has resulted in the loss of lives. Let's have a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u4	Please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's now define the factions of the factions of the treaty that has been prepared. So what's the offer. We need to adopt a series of laws today, I ask you to listen. We need to adopt a series of laws today. The first law we need to adopt is to go back to the Constitution in 2004. () [[Applause]] That's the first question. And today we must accept this law. The other one. We need to adopt today the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on condemnation. ‘ An amnesty decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u5	the rehabilitation of the victims of the prisoners.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u6	I'll give you my word. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the second question that we need to accept today. I'm asking two minutes from the factions and the non-fractionals. And let's figure it out. Please sign up for factions. I'm asking for an order of today's session, please. Freedom Union, national deputy Oleg Tajnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u7	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, a tragic day yesterday struck the whole world, what was happening in Ukraine. A hundred peaceful protestors died. The whole world has seen snipers kill peaceful, unarmed people for orders. This tragedy, it will be for many years, will forever be a shame and a disgrace to this regime. And so today, when we are here in the Ukrainian Parliament, we must be extremely responsible as the highest legislative body in our nation for the legislative settlement of this situation in Ukraine and the liquidation. As soon as possible the elimination of the political crisis. Ukrainian society should be given the answer to questions about the punishment of innocent people in those massacres in the center of the capital city of Ukraine. Ukrainian society should not hear about the Amnesty Law. Forget the word "amnesty," because amnesty applies to the guilty. This is supposed to be about rehabilitation, about getting rid of the criminal responsibility of all the protesters. With regard to the adoption of constitutional reform, we must immediately, today, at the latest, put the question to the vote tomorrow on the return of the Constitution in 2004 and proceed to the constitutional reform that is to take place in Ukraine in the near future. Presidential elections are scheduled to be announced as soon as possible. And it does.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u8	Please, Fatherland faction, Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u9	Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u10	Arsenius Yatzenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! We have had terrible and tragic events in our country. Many families are now mourning their relatives, their loved ones, who have been murdered by the authorities. Only one was declared mourning, funerals will take place tomorrow, after tomorrow. So I'm asking all members of Parliament to declare national mourning for today, for tomorrow and for tomorrow. The second, regarding the order of the day that you stated, is the immediate return to the 2004 Constitution, not the Amnesty Law, but the Offences of Criminal Responsibility Act. And we insist on liberating Yulia Timoshenko. [[Applause]] Acceptance. the adoption of all legislative acts that will enable stability in the country. In particular, I want to point out that when criminals were held accountable, they were allowed to shoot people in government offices. These people are crying in prison, and they're not called humans. [[Applause]] That is why Parliament must work today, tomorrow after tomorrow, until all decisions are made to preserve every human life and preserve our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u12	It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u13	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. [[B in m in s a l in]] The faction suggests that, given what we've read about the draft crisis settlement agreement in Ukraine, we suggest that we look at all those projects that have a bearing on the solution to this problem after the agreement is signed. [[B in m in s a l in]] And to consider concrete draft laws, which will be an agreement between certain political powers: the President and representatives of Europe, will be proposed to the Supreme Council. Therefore, the Company’s faction is proposing to operate within the framework of the agreement that will be signed, according to the media, at 12 o’clock today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u14	The Vitalia Klitschka faction, Rizanenko, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u15	The word Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u16	Please. Vitaly Klitschko Faction Manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u17	Dear friends, I want to address each and every one of you first. And what's happening right now in Kiev, what's happening in Ukraine, it's terrible. No one could have predicted what would happen to us, to us in the Fatherland, when the Ukrainian went against the Ukrainian when he went after each other. Why? No one can answer. Just because the authorities don't do everything they can to kick people's asses. In fact, it is the struggle of people against authority. People are tired of waiting, people have forgotten what laws are, what justice is. And what's happening today has to be stopped. Hundreds of victims. I want to thank, above all, the deputies who gathered yesterday to condemn the actions that are taking place. They showed their public position. We suggested that the council work on Tuesday, and if that were the case, we could avoid many of the sacrifices that took place. We don't need the amnesty we're talking about, we need full rehabilitation. [[Applause]] And we need the responsibility of the people for the criminal orders they gave. I am confident that our main objective is for the authorities to take responsibility for this. We need to develop everything to get back to the 2004 Constitution. We have to do everything we can to have the President's election in a timely fashion. [[Applause]] We have to do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u19	And we shouldn't delay. What's happening on the streets right now doesn't give us time. We must make and make decisions immediately, because the most precious thing that is is human life. And we must do everything we can to ensure that the opposition stops, and those responsible are responsible for the criminal orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u20	Party of regions, Yuri Miroshnichenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u21	Dear colleague! Dear fellow citizens! Ukraine is now experiencing a tragic moment. Dozens of millions of people have focused their views on this hall. They all expect decisions from us. We are faced with the question of whether we are able to rise above our emotions; whether we are capable of being real sons of our own. Your mother-in-law. And I'm not gonna say it because we are. We also see the causes or consequences of this tragedy in the country, and because we see blood in the streets, we are obliged to make decisions here now. Yesterday, dear colleagues, we had a tragic day. [[B in m in s a l in]] But the President and the leaders of the opposition have made a number of decisions that we need to adopt today. A political decision must be signed in the coming hours. You and I are here, in Parliament, under a legal obligation to formulate these decisions. And most importantly, we have to stop the blood. I'm sure we can make a deal. We are able not to encourage people to resist. Not to blame each other, but to reach out to each other. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to state that both the President of Ukraine and the faction of the Party of Regions in Parliament and all our fellow citizens are waiting for us to work with responsibility in the walls of Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] We will work together despite all our moral and psychological prejudices toward one another. And I'm sure we'll all take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u22	I beg of you, National Deputy Jeremiah Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! On behalf of non-fractional national MPs, I address all those in this room. First. Our offer. Inform all national deputies of the arrangements and negotiations that took place during this period. The other one. Finish your loving negotiations in the towers and have them here, in the Supreme Council Hall, or let everyone know. [[Applause]] I don't want to blame anyone, but these arrangements have led hundreds of people to die on different sides today. [[B in m in s a l in]] We insist that no one in the Supreme Council will go until all the necessary decisions are made. And now I'd like to go back to the events, and we think there should be a decision today to change the Constitution without delay. And we believe that all the decisions needed to stop the bloodshed on Kiev streets must be made today. But I would like to return to the events of yesterday. Dear people's deputies, please. Yesterday at nine o'clock in the morning, non-faction national deputies came to the Supreme Council Hall. When we came to the Supreme Council at 9 a.m., no man asked us for a national MP's certificate, we didn't give it any meaning. Nine o'clock in the morning. We went into the hall, we started talking, we started shooting at 9:30, about 9:20. We're going down all the corridors, there's no militiaman. We come in here, we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u24	Finish up. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u25	We're starting to take people out of the Supreme Council during the shooting. We're going out on the street -- there's no "bursket" in five minutes. We're going out on the street -- there's an anti-Majdan, there's people on the anti-Majdan. We're coming. I'd like to see the national MPs running. One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u26	Vitaly, listen to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u27	But we're not talking about culinary arrangements!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u28	But we're not talking about culinary arrangements!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u29	Thank you. People's deputy Lazko. Please. One minute, National Deputy Laszko. Please. Thank you. Igor, sit down! Igor, sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u31	Wait a minute. Please, come on in, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen. My minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u33	Come on, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u34	Honorable fellow MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! I'm talking. The first is the offer. All deputies who were not in the Supreme Council Hall yesterday will be deprived of their parliamentary mandates as traitors, deserters, and cowards! One! The other one. Dissolve the faction of the Company as an illegally formed and faction of the Party of Regions as cowards who are incapable of making decisions and taking responsibility! Third. I find it immoral to continue in the Presidency of the Supreme Council and the First Vice-Speaker! They're hiding yesterday. They're here today. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, I request you to apply for your resignation from the post of Head of the Supreme Council. The same should be done by First Vice-Speaker Kaletnik. You have no moral right to run Parliament! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as I'm concerned, I had a temperature of 39 to 40 yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] After lunch until 6:00 in the morning, I worked with the faction leaders on the deal. Ask the faction leaders where I was all day yesterday. First. Ladies and gentlemen, we must adopt two main laws today. The first is today to restore the Constitution of Ukraine in 2004. And to adopt the Third Law on Exemption from Responsibility, which will extend to the same wrongdoing as the Second Law of February 17. So it's now proposed that we work on these laws, and at 16 o'clock we adopt these laws. Faction leaders offer such an offer. A break of 16 hours is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! There's no call for recess. Sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, there's no break. [[B in m in s a l in]] The break is unannounced. Please sit down. Let's continue the session. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! There's no break. Have a seat. We're continuing the session. There's no break. We're continuing the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u37	Vladimir Vasilovich, take the sittings, let's talk to everyone, to all the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u38	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u39	All MPs, all ready. Let's have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u40	Please sit down, I'll put in a podium for the performances. Please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sit down. I give the floor to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Please calm down, sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vitaly, take the men. The word is given to the People’s Deputy of God’s Word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to calm down. Vladimir Vasilovich, I'm asking you to stop the deadline right now, everyone will sit down and we'll say yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Today we must feel the responsibility of Parliament. Today, Parliament is the only legitimate site where we can find an understanding and a solution to the crisis. Very temperamental, no one's nervous. And so, Volodymyr Vasilovich, I address you. Please put any decision, even a procedural decision, to a vote in the room. And if the room doesn't support a break, don't break through your knee. Let's get all the procedures back to normal. I'm sure we'll find an understanding, because if we don't even find it in Parliament, there'll be blood on the streets again. Such a quick, quick attempt to find compromise cannot be broken down in Parliament. I ask everyone to calm down again! There's a huge upheaval in the country. Magnificent! I can honestly tell you, from the first events, from the 29th, no tears came out of my eyes, but I can't even remember today. A hundred men were shot with cold-hearted snipers yesterday! We have a video where a man dressed in Berkut clothes, but it was definitely not a picket line, from the roof of a building from the Kalashnikov machine, shoots a line to the side of Midan, and then turns around and shoots to the side of Berkut. This video is! That's what we're gonna have to figure out. But I ask everyone in Parliament to understand now our responsibility! Calm down, there's a discussion in the hall! Real politics! There's no more politics under the blanket, it's on the table! And all culinary arrangements are forbidden. Vladimir Vasilovich, please give the Parliament the floor now that you will not make any procedural decisions on your own. Please tell this to Parliament and the people of Ukraine. I ask you once again, Vladimir Vasilovich, now give the floor to Parliament that you will no longer make any decisions, even procedural ones. If there is a break, let the chamber vote for it, if there is a negotiation, let the hall vote for it! We can't have any more confrontations. Please confirm this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal, so I'm going to put it to the vote and the hall will be defined. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u43	[[From the Hall]] Vladimir Vasilevich, stop the automatics immediately. Automobiles have entered the hall. Stop immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u44	I'll say, let me tell you. Let me tell you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm asking you, let's control our emotions. Yesterday, honourable colleagues, yesterday the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with almost 240 votes, decided to work continuously. If there's a problem, if you agree to separate positions, all deputies remain in the session room. The beds are negotiated, the documents are processed, the postponing of nowhere else. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you not to put any motions to the vote, because this is going to be a conflict. And finally. Now the MPs were alarmed by information that, as if in the towers of the Supreme Council, automatics had entered. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich, give the command to get them out of the session room. from the Supreme Council's towers and let's work to show that we're still moving on in making decisions. I don't understand what's going on. Please, let's go. Well, we already said that. I ask now that the representatives of the negotiating process provide us with information on what they have agreed, what issues need reconciliation, here to reconcile them and make decisions, to remove the problem in the country. Let's work!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u45	Honorable MPs, as far as the people on the Supreme Council are concerned. Tshulinski. Jacinoc.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u46	Mr. Head! Just in Parliament there were several dozen armed with automatic weapons from internal forces in Ukraine. Who put armed to the parliament in the form of automatic military weapons? Who is responsible for this? Is that how we're going to accept the Constitution? Under the barrels of vending machines? We've just brought them all out, every member of the internal forces. We demand order in Parliament. Don't put people with automatic weapons in here. Yesterday we decided that all the troops would be removed from the administrative premises. Mr. Head, ensure order in the parliament walls immediately! Take the troops away and take the automatic weapons away from them!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u47	I beg you, Koshulinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u48	Dear National MPs, all the automats, all the special forces are being removed from the Supreme Council. We will now find out who gave the command. Now let us report to the hall, as they tried to enter the House of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u49	Just a minute. Tree tree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u50	Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! We now have a real opportunity to move on. Yesterday they took the first step to stop the bloodshed. I ask you, as we have registered laws and regulations relating to the recognition of the Constitution in 2004, under the terms of number 4154, 4154-1, as well as the Constitutional Act 4155, must be included in the agenda. In addition, we have Bill 4073-1: To prevent the persecution and punishment of persons in connection with the events that took place during peaceful meetings. I must urge you to put it into the agenda today and vote today. We're not taking any breaks, we're working on it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u51	Rudzkowski, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'm addressing everyone in the session room. Let's calm down, we need to get the votes we need, and vote for the changes to the Constitution. Vladimir Vasilovich, the first decision should be to change the Constitution. And we're going to live in another state, under different conditions. The second question. What do I think is necessary now? First. Invite the President to the Supreme Council as a guarantor of the Constitution. [[B in m in s a l in]] The second question. Let him know why there is no guarantee of the Constitution. The second question. Invite the government to perform their duties, and let them know who gave the command and who shot. Dear colleagues! Today we must work and wait until then. and all the decisions to vote. Last thing I think. There's information.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u53	Thank you. Mikola Tomenko. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing the Supreme Council again. Today, all officials should know that the ruling in paragraph 11 has become effective so that the "Decision takes effect from the moment of its adoption." This means that all the officers, including the Defense Minister, have just arrived from Kiev, where there is a battalion of Marines in full combat readiness with weapons and gathering, waiting for instructions to move on the Kiev. The swan must know that he is fulfilling this decree, and as he by special train drove them by night, he must likewise send them back by special train. All the troops that are being transported to Kiev must be sent to the base of their deployment. Second position. Today, Dobkin gathers separatists in Kharkiv, and Constantine in Moscow gathers meetings of the Supreme Council with a possible decision to move under the jurisdiction of the Russian Federation. Vladimir Vasilyevich, we have the eighth point clear. Please. Security Service, the Attorney General's Office should warn you, if necessary, to arrest all separatists because of the verdict.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u55	Finish up, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u56	So first. Let's do what we've already voted on. The head of the Security Service, the Attorney General, the Minister of Defense, the heads of the district administrations while they are in office, should know that this document is in effect and that the violation of this document is punishable by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u57	National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u58	I'm surprised we're talking about secondary things today and not saying anything about basics. That's what I said yesterday. The person responsible for the blood of the dead is Viktor Janukovic himself. To invite this person here for performances means to mock the dead. We should have the Supreme Council's decision to remove Viktor Yanukovich from his position. As an MP, I insist on voting on the removal of Viktor Yanukovich from his position. If someone wants to arrange a reelection in December, how many people will he shoot by December?Oh, my God! You don't think it's his decision about these snipers?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you doubt it?Oh, my God! So who wants to help him, who wants to help Viktor Yanukovic, can be cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u59	National MP Smithukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u60	Please turn on the microphone of MP Smittuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for a moment. I have a specific offer. First. Invite, for 12 hours, the Attorney General, the head of the National Bank, acting as Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs. That's the first question. The second question. I'm addressing my colleagues from the Party of Regions and I'm addressing the Presidency, and I'm addressing the leaders of the opposition forces, giving us the opportunity for half an hour, and I'm asking that our faction gather, and I'm proposing that we gather at the bottom of our faction. I'm asking you to give us the opportunity to talk in a calm way. At this time, make decisions. If my proposal is supported, I would like to put to the vote a 30-minute recess to find out these questions. Believe me, it's better to calm down, but it's a long day's work for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u62	Now. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, I'm sure today no one has the right to leave the Supreme Council until today, tomorrow, after all the necessary decisions. Thank you. Please make an offer, announce a break of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u64	Wait. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a decree made by the National Deputy Timoshenko to withdraw from the position of First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] About the withdrawal from office of First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine National Deputy of Ukraine Kaljetnik Igor Grigorovich for violating article 96 of the Ukrainian Act "On Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now vote. Take it easy. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the session room. Please invite all the national deputies to the session room. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet you a vote. What happened? Everyone please come into the session room. Wait, please. We're not talking right now. There's a determination, we're going to vote it now. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to return to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote for inclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope everyone's in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u65	I beg of you, People's Deputy. Let him speak. One minute, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Let's not vote on the Constitution, we don't vote on personnel issues. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u67	People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to calm down. We've got a lot of passion in this room right now. We need to make two major decisions now, and after that, we need to make all the other decisions that national MPs are proposing. But I went out to the rostrum with one request. Dear colleagues, on what basis did we not hold a meeting, the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council on Wednesday, and who canceled them on Thursday? Dear colleagues! Let's not get in the way of anything. And for the future, if we've already voted that we should have a job, we should have been Wednesday morning and Thursday morning. And I'm asking, let's say that if we did that, maybe there were no consequences, let's stick to the future. Article 19 of Part Two of the Rules, only you and I can vote together to change the order of the day. Let's not break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u69	All those who wish to speak? Please, Miroshnichenko, give you a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! You and I had a tough day last night. As a result, this morning we have a project to get out of this crisis. This project requires first approval by factions. Secondly, I am convinced that our colleagues from the opposition will turn to Maidan, and we need to bring to our deputies and to people those draft decisions that were made yesterday under extremely difficult conditions. These decisions need to be discussed and then we can vote on them. At the moment, I'm convinced that factions' leaders need to determine how you're going to initial in your teams these arrangements. To this point, my dear colleagues, I ask you very much not to take any radical steps that will ruin the potential for us to move out. I'm going out of a crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u71	Please, Sobolev and Ivan Kirilenko later.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear friends! I'm asking for your attention! Most importantly, the decree we voted yesterday is signed. Vladimir Vasilovich, we ask you for an hour to report to the Supreme Council on how this decision was implemented. Buses and parts to the cities of their location are expected to leave in five minutes. Yes, Your Honor? We give you such an assignment. The other one. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, we ask you now, as you have applied, to vote on what part of this break will be -- an hour, but no more, just later to start the High Council meeting at 2 p.m. None. If you're Mr. Miroshnichenko, you want to agree with someone -- we've already agreed with the people of Ukraine and the diagnosis has already been made to this authority. We will work to preserve and strengthen Ukraine. Come on, I'm talking to all the men who want to kill someone or get their ass kicked, we don't have the right to do that. We made a decision yesterday -- no violence, we're working with you for the better.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Sergei Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! I have a big request, you know, we actually have a few hours left to make a key decision. Either Parliament will regain its authority to control the power structures, as is the case in the 2004 Constitution, or chaos will begin in the country. I have a request for you, Mr. Speaker, now enough culinary negotiations! Whoever wants to negotiate, we have to agree on a final solution. There's a rostrum, invite the Justice Minister here, no matter who, there's a document signed in our presence, and this document immediately enters the voting room. Do we need half an hour to do that? Half an hour! But we need to get the constitutional system back. Parliament must take responsibility for everything that is going on in the country. So I'm asking you, we have one urgent question, I'm addressing all the sides that are, there are no other questions, this is the restoration of the constitutional system in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u75	Please, Arseny Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we need to sit here in the Parliamentary Chamber for an hour and write the 2004 Constitution Restoration Act and immediately vote it. In order to do this quickly, we turn to the head of Parliament, call the Minister of Justice here so that we can quickly prepare a coherent draft, a vote and an immediate signature. So the proposition is, no one's breaking up from the Parliamentary Hall, for an hour we're drafting the Law, in the Hall, here. And we're going to vote for him here. So we're in the hall for an hour, but we're preparing a bill. Is that how it's done or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u77	Do you have a deal? All of it! Please, break is an hour, we're working on the law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u78	Is Arseny Petrovich's egg coming or not? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down. We continue our work, we continue our meetings. Dear National Deputies, signed the Agreement on the Resolution of the Crisis in Ukraine. So I think the MPs should know what's signed, who signed it. So I want to give my word to the leaders of the opposition factions for two minutes, they asked. They will inform the national deputies of this covenant. Then, as we agreed, after this information, we will consider the Act on the Restoration of Certain Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and consider, we will accept. Let us consider and adopt the Third Law on Exemption from Responsibilities, which will extend to such offences as the Law of February 17. These two laws are, as we agreed, already worked out, registered, and we'll look at them. That's why I want to give the floor to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u79	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to address all the Majdan activists who are now here in the government perimeter, as well as all who are watching the Dignity Revolution, the active processes of fighting the regime. Within a few hours of the government district, internal troops and special forces of the Berkut unit began to be removed. I urge all of you not to give in to any provocations about this, because I would like to remind you that it was yesterday that the Ukrainian Parliament approved the decision by 236** votes, namely the Ordinance condemning the use of violence that led to the death of people. And in the 5th, part two says: "We, as Parliament, are the highest legislator of our nation, have given direction to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to stop immediately the blockade by law enforcement officials of transport communications, streets, areas, alleys, boulevards in the city of Kiev and other populated areas of Ukraine, as well as to take steps to return a special warehouse not involved in the protection of state institutions to places of permanent deployment." They follow the instructions of the Ukrainian Parliament. Moreover, the agreement that had just been signed stipulated that the authorities would use the rule of law exclusively for the physical protection of the houses of the authorities and no more. And now, society, we need to ask the question without even discussing it, I suggest we put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u80	Please. And the faction manager. Please finish, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u81	So I'm even suggesting without discussion that another position of the treaty that has just been signed, which says that within 48 hours of signing, a special law will be adopted, signed and promulgated that will restore the functioning of the Constitution in 2004. So there is a draft of the Ukrainian Act to restore the functioning of the individual provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution. And I propose, without discussion, to put him to the vote as soon as possible and to put a dot in that so-called "constitutional epoch of the fourth year." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u82	Thank you. It's Vitaly Call's Faction. Vitaly Klitschko Faction Manager. Three minutes, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Then Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that each and every one of you, the most important task for each and every one of us, is to stop what is happening today in our society: bloodshed, hundreds of casualties, hundreds of injuries, and it is very important that this does not happen. Those paintings that we see today, they could not dream in a terrible dream: the city of Kiev is burning. I have just returned where the Agreement between the President, the leaders of the opposition and representatives, the ministers of foreign countries of France, Germany and Poland was signed. And the deal was signed. I want to tell you the most important points. First. The most important task is to stop the bloodshed. That's understandable. Second item. Release the detainees. Third. Punish the guilty. Four. Stop splintering the side. Stop talking about federalization, separatist moods. And this is very important for Ukraine to be whole, and it's very important for us to do this today. Then. Depriving the dictatorial powers of the President of Ukraine, the distribution of powers between parliament, government and the President on the basis of the 2004 return to the Constitution. And I'm sure we should vote for that. And I have clear confidence that in order for all the conditions to be fulfilled, there are people and people who, I'm sure they will calm down, the temperature in society will go down, but I'm sure they're the highest control authority to make sure that all the arrangements are implemented. These are the key messages I wanted to make. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u84	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak to the leader of the "Fatherland" faction, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u85	The honourable national deputies of Ukraine who, after voting for the restoration of the Constitution in 2004, will actually become people who represent the will and interests of the Ukrainian people. There's a suggestion: less talk and more to do. We now need to urgently submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an agreed Act on the Restoration of the Constitution in 2004 and put a dot in the shameful story of Ukrainian dictators called "President". () [[Applause]] The other one. We must now immediately adopt the Law on Exemption from the Responsibility of All People Who Are Illegally Detained, Arrested and Are Now in Cassettes. People must be released immediately and any criminal persecution against these people must be stopped. So, Mr. Head, there is a suggestion to move on to a particular job. People demand action and decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u86	Thank you. May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies, and we will vote. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the Ukrainian Act "Renewal of Certain Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine" (Law No. 4163). I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:43:28]] For 361 Against - 1, held - 0, not a vote - 30. There's a total of 392. Decision taken. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a motion for a decision to be taken without discussion, a votead hoc. May I put it to a vote? I'd like to vote on who's in favour of this procedure. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to vote. [[16:44:25]] For 369 Against - 1, holding - 1, not voting - 23. Decision taken. The factions. This question is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Please. How long do you need? How long does it take? Please. Give me three minutes, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u87	Perhaps five. Dear Ukrainian people, honourable members of the Ukrainian Parliament! The Supreme Council of Ukraine will now make a decision. The far-reaching decision to restore the constitutional order and the rule of law in Ukraine, the far-reaching decision to abolish President Yanukovic's dictatorial powers, a decision that restores power to the Ukrainian Parliament, which was chosen by the Ukrainian people. Following the adoption of this decision, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the country's only legislative body, will eventually be given authority on behalf of the people of Ukraine to appoint the Government, all members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, influence on the law enforcement, the judiciary and other branches of government. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will cease to be a unit of the Ukrainian Presidential Authority, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to implement what Majdan relies on and what the Ukrainian people require - rights, justice and dignity. In 2010, the current president of Ukraine was elected by the Constitution in 2004. As a result of the constitutional conspiracy, however, the Constitutional Court was unjustifiably and unlawfully rescinding certain provisions of the Ukrainian Constitution. No legislative act was adopted to restore the Constitution in 1996. There was no legitimate decision to publish the 1996 Constitution and to use the powers unlawfully exercised by the current President over the past three and a half years. Now, voting for the Ukrainian Act of Restoration of Certain Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, in general, renews the 2004 Constitution. We foresee in this legislative act that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to form a coalition of parliamentary factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be formed both by factions and by national deputies, as determined by a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2010. The law also clearly stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will exercise its authority by October 2017, and that more than 80 legislative acts, which were unlawfully adopted in 2010 and 2011 and which conferred undue powers on the President, should be repealed within a period of five days. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first step, to restoring justice and justice in our country. We still have a lot to do to bring peace and stability to Ukraine, in order to rebuild Ukraine, in order to bring everyone to justice, I want to stress, everyone who gave illegal orders that killed and abused people. And here the role of the Ukrainian Parliament is decisive. That is why I ask you, Mr. President Janukovic, by constitutional majority to restore the Ukrainian Constitution to Ukraine, to abolish President Yanukovic's dictatorial powers and to tell the Ukrainian people that we have taken the first, important step towards stabilizing the country, preserving it and fighting for its future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u88	Thank you. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. We need more than 300 votes to adopt this law. Please turn on the Jacinyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u89	Vladimir Vasilovich, before the vote, I ask you now to put to the vote the question: to consider an ad hoc bill without a committee decision on the basis and in general. It's very important. As a matter of procedure, we should have everything as the book says. We only act by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u90	May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the nation? I'm betting on the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll make it up now and then put it to the vote. I'm betting on the vote -- I'm asking you to listen -- to the draft Act (No. 4163) on the restoration of the individual provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, which we have considered under the ad hoc procedure without the decision of the committee of profile for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:51:59]] For 386 [[Flushing]] Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 10. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party 140, Parenthood 89, Vitalia Klicka 40, Freedom 35, Company 32, non-fractional 50. What I salute you all with. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. Your attention, please. I ask you to prepare yourself for a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the national council. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of Act No. 4073-1 on the non-persistence of persecution and punishment of persons who took place during peaceful meetings and the recognition of persons who have lost their validity, some of the laws of Ukraine. Do you understand? I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the session. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:55:26]] For 373 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 23. Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Ladies and gentlemen, you are being asked to make a decision without discussion. Possible ad hoc voting. Whoever's behind this proposal, I'm asking the national MPs to vote. [[16:56:33]] For 366 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 30. Decision taken. The factions. Yes. I invite you to report to the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Bogdanović Derevyanko. How many minutes do you need? He'll report now. Please report, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u91	Honorable Vladimir Vasilovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians, is brought to the attention of the Supreme Council by the Law on the Prevention of Persecution and Punishment of Persons Who Happened during Peace Meetings and Recognition of Certain Laws of Ukraine. The point is that the criminal responsibility is being removed from persons who are not only charged with criminal offences and who are currently in the institution or in prison or elsewhere, as well as from those who may contain the signs of criminal offences provided for in this law. The point is that if the police or law enforcement authorities have not discovered a criminal case today regarding the actions of persons during peaceful acts of protest, these persons are also subject to decriminalization if these criminal cases are to be opened. In addition, the law provides for the exemption from administrative responsibility of all persons who have been fined the crazed financial fines in which they are deprived of their rights, including Automeidano. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important law, and this is a second step in the direction of peace, peace and harmony in Ukraine. This law awaits a huge number of people, many parents, mothers watching you on their TVs right now, and they expect a positive vote from you. I urge all of you to support this bill with the same constitutional majority of votes. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u92	May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies. I beg your attention, prepare for the vote. Let's move on to making a decision. I put to the vote draft Act No. 4073-1 on the non-persistence of persecution and punishment of persons in connection with events that took place during peaceful meetings and in recognition of the loss of validity of certain laws of Ukraine. We considered it without discussion, made a decision, and no committee decision. For adoption as a basis and as a whole, I ask the National Deputies to vote. [[17:00:36]] For 372 Against - 0, held - 0, unvoted - 23. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 127, Fatherland - 88, Vitaly Klicka - 40, Freedom - 36, Ukraine - 32, non-fractional - 49. I'm asking the faction leaders to come to this boat we're going to figure out how we're going to proceed. We will conclude consultations in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Yes. I'm asking the faction leaders to come here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u93	Dear National Deputies! Please listen to the announcement. According to part 3 of article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to personal statements made, I report the withdrawal of the factions of the Party of People's Deputies of Ukraine: Burjak Sergija Vasilovich, Vasadze Tariela Shakrovič, Vaszuk Katerina Timfiyivni, Jiga Mikoli Vasilovich, Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovič, Kaletnik Grigoria Mikolaajovich, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Kurovski Ivan Ivanovich, Makeinko Vladimir Vladimiro Milojovich, Filippenko Volodymir Pilipovich, Adventure Anatolia Vicentiowich, Soroki Mikoli Petrovic, Hmotinika Vitalija Juriovica, Zuslavalyovica, Zubičałopića. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u94	Please turn on the microphone on on the stand, please, for information. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, for information on that document, the Constitution that we have just adopted. It provides for an imperative mandate, which provides that if a person has been elected to the Supreme Council by party list and then stepped down from the faction, he may be deprived of his mandate. This will take effect only after the text has been officially published. This is a message for all conscious deputies. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u97	Welcome to Ukraine's collection of the woman from the biotlon who received the gold in the estaphet today. [[Applause]] We welcome our colleague Alexia Kaidu. So his wife was the last one on the staff and brought this gold to our Ukraine. [[Applause]] This is the second gold in the history of an independent Ukraine on the winter Olympic Games. So this is today's first gold at this Sochi Olympics in the treasury of Ukraine. Hello, everyone. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u98	Dear National MPs, ask for a minute by the Amazing People's Deputy. Please. And then a minute later, the national deputy Lazko. And I ask, the Law, where is the material help for the families of the dead? I don't have the law to put us in the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u99	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, I have a request to you that we immediately put the order in order and vote, and we have decided to release the illegally seated Julia Vladimirovne Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u100	Please, just a minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Vasilovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! You and I have made an important decision: We have taken him to the Dictator Yanukovich, but that is not enough to stop the crisis in the country. Because the Supreme Council has voted in favour of the continued work of the Supreme Council, I propose making a number of decisions right now. First: the decision of the Supreme Council to remove President Yanukovic from office for the killing of Ukrainian citizens, the violation against Yanukovich of the criminal case and his trial. Two: today, we now have to vote for the resignation of the Minister of Internal Affairs of Zacharychenk, for the resignation of the Attorney General of Pschenka and for the criminalization of Zacharychenk for the killing of Ukrainian citizens. Without these decisions, the Supreme Council has no right to disperse. I call on the people's deputies to work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u102	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also addressing you. A group of national MPs have now drafted an order to remove the Minister of Internal Affairs, an order to remove the Minister of Defence, and an order to remove the head of the Tax Administration of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly. And he's bringing this question to the vote in a few minutes. I believe that such decisions stabilize the situation on the streets of Ukraine today. Dear National Deputies! I call for this question to be put to the vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u104	Victor Chumak, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! What I'm saying is that there's information that a detained sniper was shooting at both sides of the people, i.e. shooting at both members of the internal forces and the members of the rallyers. I'm just asking, Vladimir Vasilovich, for an expert on weapons for that. weapons and bullets to accurately identify the person who set the fight on the streets of Kiev on fire. This needs to be done as quickly as possible to relieve the tension and not to say that in principle either our militia or someone else has killed people. Because as far as we know, this person does not refer to any unit of Ukrainian power structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u106	Please, give me a minute, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I have an offer. Well, of course, we are voting on the law on material assistance to the families of the dead, but it would be nice, I believe that the monthly salary of the nationals of all deputies, without exception, was listed among the families of the dead, for that is also the responsibility of the Supreme Council. Thank you. I'm asking you to support this and put a line into either the law or in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u108	Please, a minute, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u109	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland faction. Dear friends, today when we look at what has been happening in Ukraine in the last days, we need to rethink in general, and what will be ahead of those who have left parents, children, men, women, and family. The point is that we, as the Supreme Council, are often criticized for allowing ourselves such benefits that are not available to humans. We have a system of sanatoriums and health facilities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us consider how this summer we will send for rehabilitation, rehabilitation, and treatment for those who have lost their health in the streets of Kiev and other cities who may yet experience some improvement in their health. We have other options. And let's rest this year outside our sanatoriums, and this summer, let's let people get better where they're used to resting people's deputies. I think it'll be the right decision. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u110	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u111	normal people, long ago normal MPs don't use these benefits. For those who use it, suffer one year, let them rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u112	Please, National Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention. I want to say about those who are still alive, but who have lost their legs, their arms, their eyes have lost their health. There are hundreds of these people. And the question isn't to go to a sanatorium, the question is a very scary set of social problems that our country doesn't solve in terms of people with disabilities. It's prosthetics, it's healing, it's rehabilitation. And I would like to say that we need to have the Cabinet of Ministers prepare a set of measures, not just a formal decision, but with money, to save these people from the difficult situation they face in life after they've chosen Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u114	Did everyone say that? Okay. Dear national deputies, I offer the proclamation of February 22 and 23, the Day of Grief for the dead in our country. People's deputies are requested to vote on February 22 and 23. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[18:00:46]] For 355 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 28. Decision taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies, the "Fatherland" faction insists that the draft Law amending the Criminal and Procedural Code of Ukraine be included in the agenda today and that the draft Act be considered (for implementation of the provisions of article 19 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[18:01:37]] For 306 [[Applause]] Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 79. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow at 10 a.m., we continue our session. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no law by material aid. Where? Come on! Let's get some material help. Is there a decision? Come on. Come on. Please make a decision on the material assistance of the families of the dead, yes? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on discharge from the duties of Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Zacharychenk, for systematic and grave violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the excess of authority and official powers, as expressed in the illegal issuance of orders for the unjustified application of measures of physical influence, special means and firearms, which have led to a massive violation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen, dozens of dead and hundreds of wounded citizens of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules: To relieve Zacharyczenko Vitali Juryovich of his duties as Minister of Interior of Ukraine, which results in his being removed from office. The decree takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Mr. Head, please put an order to the vote immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u116	Give me the document. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting it to the vote. I would like to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Order on discharge from the duties of Minister of Interior of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:05:07]] For 334
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u117	I'm putting "removal" because I'm letting it go. We can't fire him. There's a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] We made a deal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Simonenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u118	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Vladimir Vasilovich, I ask you to consider the following, we should record that we ask the President to consider, so let's say, this is a decision, because there is a conflict with what the Constitution has adopted, and it has not yet entered into force, but it is not signed to do everything right. And to ask the President to take into account, you have an urgent decision to make, because tomorrow he's going to be charged, and let's say in court, it's all going to come back to the beginning of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for the vote, you're intruding, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on discharge from the duties of Minister of Interior of Ukraine. This decision takes effect from the introduction of the new Constitution that we have adopted today. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on discharge from the duties of Minister of Interior of Ukraine. Please. for acceptance as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. [[18:10:25]] For 332 [[Applause]] The factions. Regional Party 69, Fatherland 88, Vitaly Klicka, 41, Freedom 36, Ukraine 32, non-factional 66. The honourable national deputies, five factions, five factions of factions, proposed to consider the draft Law (No. 4164) on State aid to protest participants and members of their families. [[B in m in s a l in]] Got it, right? I'll bet you a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u120	Stand up. Say, "All are dead."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u121	I am voting on the draft Act (No. 4164) establishing State aid for participants in mass protests and members of their families to be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u122	The "all dead" request will be put away.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u123	Yeah, I thought so, but I wrote it like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u124	Well, don't worry, fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u125	Dear National Deputies! Announcement: In accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to personal claims, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine: Draker Andrija Leonidovic. [[Applause]] Zubika Vladimir Vladimirovich, Pekhova Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Prodivus Vladimir Stepanović, Sigala Evgen Jakovic, Smituh Grigorija Evdokimovic, Jacenka Anton Vladimirovich. [[Applause]] Thank you. Please. Please Simonenko and then Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u126	Vladimir Vasilovich! Simonenko, the faction of the Company. I would like to ask you to pay attention to the second paragraph of Article 2. Because there is an exception, I wrote for these remarks, to exclude the words: foreigners and people without citizenship, and those who need some help. Dear, well, first of all, let's say there's no right for citizens of Ukraine not to look at people without citizenship at all, and therefore the phrase "who need help." There should be a clear definition of--that's budget money! – what and who, as defined by this procedure by the Cabinet of Ministers, must be excluded. We have no right to write "foreign citizens" and "a stateless person."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u127	Miroshenko. And then Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u128	And another observation, Vladimir Vasilovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u129	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u130	And another observation: "installation" or "surrender." Because "establishment" is a constant, and "hope" is a one-time thing. And legally that's a different concept. If someone writes illiterately, at least we need to correct these mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u131	Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I think today the Ukrainian Supreme Council has adopted many important, promising, right decisions. And now the decision that is proposed for the vote, to my conviction, is to appease our citizens. And it's very important that we talk today about all the dead so that all the deaths that have fallen victim to this conflict will be duly honored by the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian State. So I think it's going to be the right thing to do, and my colleagues and I were consulting, and they also supported this idea: all the dead have to be given state aid. It is in such an order that we should vote on this decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u133	Jacneuk, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u134	Mr. Head, we insist that we vote in favour of the bill on the release of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is to include in the agenda a bill (No. 4164) on State aid to participants in mass protests, members of families of victims and victims. Vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word. It's a day-to-day inclusion. [[6:17:44]] For 369 Against - 0, held - 0, not voted - 17. Decision taken. The factions. Please, the microphone of the People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u136	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. Vladimir Vasilovich, we need to understand another legal one, so to speak. Legal question. How do you use "participating" or "tolerant"? I'm sure we should use "tolerant," because tomorrow the participants will be writing on Maidan for help, so let's say who is the participant. And you have to write clearly "tolerant," because that's the category that applies to medical personnel: surgery, let's say. It's all fixed up. And the participants, let's say, will all appear there. So I'd like you to take into account the fact that we need to make an amendment here, that this is the victim of the protest.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u137	Well, we put it in the agenda. I am voting on the adoption of draft law (No. 4164) "To provide State aid to participants in mass protests, members of families of victims and victims." [[B in m in s a l in]] Can I have the patient? I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'd give it to our own, not to foreigners. [[18:19:42]] For 371 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 15. Decision taken. One minute, please explain to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u138	I'm talking again. Dear colleagues, in the second paragraph, it is stated that citizens of Ukraine, and then "foreigners, stateless people who need some help." But fear God for what you do! "The citizens of Ukraine" is understandable, and "foreigners" is why, let's say, write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u139	Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I believe we voted correctly. Peter Mikolaiovich, I'll keep you posted. A citizen of the Russian Federation died yesterday in Chrystec. You've talked a lot about your friendship with Russia. He's also a hero who put his life behind democracy in Ukraine. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u141	Shame on the commies! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u142	Let's make an announcement. The announcement does.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u143	Announcement. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with personal statements made, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of People's Deputies of Ukraine: Sharov Igora Fedorovich, Hmelnicky Vasil Ivanovich, Bagraev Mikola Georgievovich, Onishtenka Aleksandra Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u144	Everybody sit down. Please, everyone, sit down. Everybody sit down. The draft Act (No. 2023) amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for implementation of the provisions of article 19 of the United Nations Convention against Corruption) is under consideration. How will we view it? Please, a summary of the procedure, we will give the report to the Turk and to the head of the committee and we will make a decision. Please vote in favour of this procedure. Please vote in favour of this procedure. [[18:22:56]] For 278 Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 98. Decision taken. The factions. Please report to Alexander Valentinović Turkinova. Two minutes for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I will report very briefly, because this issue has already been discussed in the Supreme Council. It is now proposed to bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with the requirements of the European Union and the United Nations Resolution on the Fight against Corruption and Other Crimes. The format of this law, its formulation, is in accordance with this resolution, in accordance with the requirements of the European Union. The need to decriminalize this issue and bring legislation into line with civilized requirements was also discussed at the sessions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament. And, uh... Friends, it is our duty to do so. I want to say that these articles do not cancel; they conform to the requirements of the civilized world. That's why, honourable colleagues, regardless of political views, I am very much asking to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u146	Thank you, sit down. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, 2 minutes. We agreed, no one speaks, but you will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as chairman of the committee, I have made many presentations from this rostrum, and I have repeatedly presented those projects that relate to the decriminalization of those articles that we have received from the Soviet Union. These articles of the Criminal Code, which today allow any authority to exterminate its political opponents. And parliament must "cut this knot on the neck of Ukraine". We have to put a dot and eventually set the order. Righteousness to celebrate. Please support this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u148	One minute, Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in favour of this bill because I have always advocated the release of Yulia Timoshenko and I will even go to the President. But I want this bill filed by Inna Bogoslovska, who put Timoshenko in prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u150	Attention. Attention! Prepare for the vote. Please sit down. Prepare for the vote. I am voting on draft law (No. 2023) amending the Criminal and Procedural Code of Ukraine (for implementation into national legislation the provisions of article 19 of the UN Convention against Corruption) – for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies, please vote. [[18:27:02]] For 310
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u151	For – 310, against – 0, held – 1, did not vote – 54. Decision taken. Factions: Region Party 54, Fatherland 87, Vitaly Klicka Hit 40, Freedom 36, Ukraine 32, non-factional 61. Evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u152	Wheat. The wheat, the view, the wheat's retirement. Wheat.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-21-m0.u153	I declare it closed. At 10 o'clock, we'll continue the session.
