ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We start a hard day because the agenda is very full, many important complex issues that we need to consider and accept today. Please turn on the "Council" system and run the registration. [[10:11:37]] There were 308 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, I see the hands that have raised the national MPs. We don't have performances today. The only thing I got was a statement from the faction of the Communist Party and the Communist faction. They want to call it a break. But I understand it's a break for the application. I ask you to declare your application without interruption. Please, who's ready. Two minutes from the Party of Regions and the Communist Party. Please have the Secretariat two minutes away from each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u2	Dear President, distinguished members of the people! Today's situation in the country is extremely explosive. And we, sitting here like no one else, understand the consequences of what is happening in the country today. Today, in the South-East of our country, there are events that God forbid if we do not find a common language here, if we are not wise, then we will not have a peaceful outcome. To date, buildings in the Donetsk Region and the building in the Lugansk region have been blocked. Our task with you as responsible politicians is to prevent bloodshed. To that end, the only possible solution to the situation is the adoption of the Amnesty Act, which was adopted during the February events in the country. Dear colleagues, both in the west and in the east of the country, are our children, they are Ukrainian sons and we do not need to label them. Therefore, the adoption of the Amnesty Law is the only possible peaceful way out of this situation. It is up to you and me whether there will be peace in our country. Our voters living in the south-east of the country love Ukraine no less than the people living in Chernovtsa or in Ivano-Frankovsk. Therefore, their rights must also be respected. And for today, as a party representing the interests of our constituents, we state the following. Until the Amnesty Act is adopted, our faction does not vote for any of the bills on the agenda. The next requirement of our faction is to carry out constitutional reform as soon as possible, which would provide for maximum decentralization of power and maximum broad budgetary autonomy for local councils. Today we are not talking about federalization, we are talking about decentralization. Because power on the ground is needed today, it is today that money is needed to address the problems that exist today in local councils. The next step that our faction insists on is the second reading of the Local Referendum Act (No. 0867), which.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u3	Let me finish. Let me finish, the only one is with the communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u4	which was voted on first reading. The next step is to consolidate the constitutional status of the Russian language as the second State. We are also interested in investigating the events that took place during the February events. That's why we insist on Snipers TSC. Dear colleagues, today the bill is not for days, but for hours. Show your political and civil responsibility. The Amnesty Act should be on the agenda today. It's the only peaceful way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u5	National MP Simonenko, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Simonenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine. I inform you that another crime has been committed tonight and the central committee of the party has been destroyed. Instead of resolving the issue of the release of those who are members of the media and of those who are members of the political parties that are part of the executive structure of Ukraine, the coalition of the majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All that has to do with the events of the night is evidence of only one thing: Fascist methods destroy traces of crime. I want to emphasize once again that there were marauders and just thieves. They took the equipment out, destroyed the premises inside, the furniture, they burned the books, they burned the attributes of the flags. I am addressing you, the well-respected voters, not only that the central committee of the Company has been destroyed, a party voted for by more than 3 million citizens of our Ukraine. You and I are witnessing that the torches, the bones of the books, the fires of Riggsdaga, have all been there. It is precisely those events that confirm that more than 50 million people have died in the fire of World War II. We are addressing Europe today, which must understand that the Fascist regime today in Ukraine is a threat to the world community. The flag burns, the flag burns and the worst part is that they burned the banners of Victory, i.e. the greatness of the feat destroyed our grandfathers and great-grandparents near the Central Committee of the Party. There, through the same, so to speak, the mechanism, as always, did by committing crimes, hid these crimes. I appeal to law enforcement authorities and demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u7	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u8	I appeal to the law enforcement authorities and demand that the commission of the crime be investigated and that those involved be held personally accountable. They're all known, they've said that all the time. And the faction of the Company, until a person is identified as a criminal and responsible for the crime is identified, will participate in the work of this Parliament, which, in turn, strengthens the power of the Fascist nation, does not gather and will not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I see several hands of the national deputies. Oleg Tuggnibok, repeat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u10	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Mr. Head, dear companion! I propose to go back to the question today, to vote on the order of the daily bill of illustration. Until we resolve this issue, we will not be able to deal with all the problems that we have in the economy, in social policy, and to stabilize the situation that is now in Ukraine, including overcoming those separatists who are here in this room, instead of condemning, are being protected by the Communists and the Party of Regions that are organizing it. I propose that we vote in favour of the Day Book Law. This is the demand of the people today, this is the need of Ukrainian society. There will be a illustration -- there will be reforms. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, let's do three more lines, and we'll start working. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u12	Dear parliamentarians, our constituents! You just heard the parade. Perhaps each of you has wondered what is going on in the country today. I would like to remind you once again, they spoke on behalf of the pitiful remnants of the Party of Regions, which the Ukrainian people met so beautifully today and yesterday in Lugansk, Donetsk. It was wonderful to meet all of you, Dobkin and the King. And that's how they'll meet. As a result, please do not go up to the rostrum and imitate the country’s politics today. You want to rehabilitate the bandits today who sent a hundred of us to heaven for the independence of the Ukrainian state? Do you have an elementary conscience? That's why I want to remind the Party of Regions: remember the SDPU, which was a powerful party, seemed to be "god by beard they're holding", a few days ago they got their phone cut off for default. This is what awaits you. You've gone completely bankrupt today. Because of this, Alexander Valentinovich, let us not be intimidated by what they will not.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u13	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u14	will not vote for these important laws for Ukraine today. You didn't vote anyway. I am convinced that today those who have left this party will vote and we will have enough votes without you. And this will be your end.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u15	Please, People's Deputies, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Presentations by Communist factions and factions of the region testify to one thing for the entire Ukrainian community that these parties are organizing separatist terrorist Sabbaths in the east of Ukraine. They say from this high parliamentary rostrum that if we don't make arrangements here, there will be. So that's how they confirm that they're organizing this. I'm addressing the leader of the Efraemov faction. Alexander Sergiyyovich, come to this rostrum, if you are united in Ukraine, call the separatists to lay down arms in our native Lugansk with you. I offered it to Ephraim yesterday, and he refused. He said, "You want me not to come to Lugansk after that?".. That is, he has thus confirmed that he is directing those terrorists who today threaten the lives of citizens. Next, the communists who came out and said we weren't going to work. They used to say, "We're not gonna work until the office is freed." The office is now freed again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u17	I'm asking for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u18	The office has been dismissed, and now the Communists say again, they will not work. They don't work for one reason, because the FSB and the Kremlin are giving them a command to undermine the country's defense rather than protect Ukraine. Communists and the Party of the Regions as criminal organizations, as the guides of the invaders should be banned and you have no right at all to bear the name of the Ukrainian national MPs. And what the King, Dobkin, and all others are given is thus to be with every traitor and colomber.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u19	Mikola Rudzkowski and we finish the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I address you. First, let's form a group of national deputies from different factions, go to Lugansk first, of course, to Donetsk, meet these people, and make a mechanism to solve the problem without resistance. I believe that on this basis, on the basis of this, we can peacefully vote on the Amnesty Act in the Supreme Council and lift the tension without military intervention and interference by law enforcement. That's the first question. The other one. I'm asking the Chief of the Supreme Council to invite the Head of the Nutzbank and Minfin tomorrow to report on what's going on with the dollar. The product was 30 percent, and the big business is making a drop in the price of the bracelet. Let's put a dot on this. And the third. Today, the Communists correctly asked questions about the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u21	Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u22	I think it's barbaric: smoking a room. But, dear colleagues, the Communists have to show how much they've built these palaces. Over the years, billions have been stolen from customs. So, dear colleagues, we need to be principled in all matters. I'm talking to all the national deputies: work, not block the work of the Supreme Council. The state is falling apart in front of the eyes. Let us do our utmost to unite and strengthen it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I apologize. Come on, let me comment. I understand the lines on the lines -- we're just going to be playing all day. Dear colleagues called many factions. I've given the opportunity to speak to the factions of the Party of the Regions. Nestor Ivanovich, please! I'll answer the questions you've asked. And I hope that if you're interested, not in pierre, but in real life, you'll support my offer. Dear national MPs, our constituents! I had a conversation, a telephone conversation with people with guns in an S.H.I.E.L.D. building in Lugansk. There's plenty of guns, lots of ammunition. And on the eve of the great Passover, it is very scary to shed the blood of Ukrainian citizens. On the other hand, gun action is a serious crime. In order for there to be no bloodshed, I've offered a lot of difficult talks to the citizens in this room, and I'm willing to make this offer to those who are in the room of the Donetsk Authority. We discussed the issue and the establishment of an international commission, along with the Henprocurator's office, to verify all the events concerning the loss of Ukrainian citizens during peaceful protests. That's an important question. information should be investigated objectively. We are ready to consider immediately the reform of local self-government in the direction of expanding the rights of local councils, including the formation of executive boards. It's a positive process, and we're ready to go this way. In order for the regions to be responsible for the situation in the country, not just to refer to what is happening in Kiev. And the third question. In the case of people making up weapons and releasing administrative premises, we do not have to adopt amnesty laws. We guarantee that there will be no criminal persecution of people who will lay down their weapons and leave the premises. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I'm willing to draft it by decree of the President. And I think that peace in the country is more important than political ambitions, and the main problem is that those who today maintain their homes in Donetsk and Lugansk are using the enemies of Ukraine to speculate on it, to develop provocative actions and aggression against our country. I'm asking the Party of Regions when they really want to solve the problem, not to do another pyar, to support my offer, to join in this position, and today we can solve this problem. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to consider matters of the order of the day. First reading. We have a question, Your Honor, number 2204. Dear colleagues, when you support the proposal, please give me a minute. The only thing I'm asking you to do is not insult the other part of the room so that we don't get the lines started again. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that it was from the initiative of the faction of the Party of the Regions that the Amnesty Act on the responsibility of Majdan activists was initiated. We understood that people needed to get away from the situation because of the fact that the offence had taken place and people needed to be assured that they would not be responsible if they stopped doing so. The situation is the same now. And I was the author of the First Amnesty Act. And I am now the author, along with the members of the faction of the region, of allowing protestors in the south-eastern regions of Ukraine to stop the protests that unfortunately now take place. Now, and not just today, several days from the beginning of the opposition, there are deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, both in Lugansk and in Donetsk. A group of national deputies left today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u25	It's a replica. One minute. Dear colleagues, now I see the movements on the line again. Nestor Ivanovich, thank you. One minute, I heard your offer. Dear colleagues, because whoever raised their hands, I gave everyone the opportunity to speak. I beg you, let's work together. Dear colleagues, I will respond to the Party of the Regions' reoffer. Dear colleagues, when we passed the Amnesty Act, it was necessary because, according to the judges' decision, people were thrown away. And without the Amnesty Law, they couldn't be released. In this case, there is no court ruling that condemns those who are now in administrative premises. We can solve this issue immediately without any law. It would be a desire, not to pry, but to work, to solve the problem. We're ready for this, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to start working for Parliament to consider important legislative acts. Please come to the rostrum of Parliamentary Deputy of the People's Republic of Stoyan Alexandr Mikolajovic. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Professional Associations, Their Rights and Guarantees of Activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u26	There's an offer, honourable colleagues, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. There are so many issues that we need to consider today. [[10:32:57]] For 184 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, first two briefs: one is statistical, the other is legal. Statistical help. By the end of 2013, the unions had 130 health care facilities, 56 tourist resorts, 15 hotels and other facilities. Total: 266 objects Among them were the most powerful health workers in Crimea — 17 health workers and 11 other facilities. It's based on the property of the stock companies, the Ukrproftur and the Ukrprofessort. In 2013 alone, a million workers were healed. 800,000 people have been provided with excursion services. I'll point out that over a billion dollars are budgeted. Legal aid. During the years of the Soviet government, sanatoriums were built both at the expense of the unions and at the expense of social insurance funds, certainly at the expense of some of the different organizations and enterprises. I'm going to point out that large investments were made by VCRPS. Why? Because 80 percent of the costs of Ukrainian trade unions, and then 25 million workers, counted VCRPS. VCRPS provided funds for the construction of health - care facilities. In particular, many health - care facilities have been built in Crimea. I want to say that, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions has called upon the VCRPS to provide them with all the health care facilities that have been built in Ukraine at a cost-sharing cost, and this has been done. But, dear colleagues, now you see what the situation in Crimea is, it's getting worse. There is a threat that these health - care workers will be taken away. So we now ask Parliament to make changes to the Final Regulations of the Trades Act, which would define one point, that all the health workers who were built at the time are the legal successors of the Ukrainian trade unions. So, on the one hand, we have the support and transfer of this property from the VCRPS, but the general Confederation of Trades has left this property behind. Thus, the legislative consolidation at the level of the State under the law enforcement professions will allow for the fight against trade unions and international courts. This is a very important question regarding the healing of our workers. I'm asking you to back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, from the Zelik Ruslan Bogdanovich profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, your point is to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Associations and Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity" (Registration No. 2204), submitted by National Deputy Alexander Stoyan. The bill proposes that section VI of the Ukrainian Act "On Professional Associations of Their Rights and Guarantees of Activity" should be supplemented by paragraphs 5 and 6, including the changes noted, by the Universal Association of Professional Associations, which took effect until 24.08.1991, to be recognized as the successors of the relevant republican associations of the ODSR professional associations and the former Union of the RSR. With regard to their property and assets located in Ukraine, except for that property whose status as owner is determined by the valid international treaties of Ukraine. In addition, it is proposed that the property of the Federation of Professional Associations or of its established public associations, other assets owned by professional associations of the Union of Soviet Union and the USSR be acquired by August 24, 1991, at the expense of its own resources, and property transferred to them by the decision of the State authorities of the former Union of Soviet Union and the Ukrainian RSR. The introduction of the proposed changes will ensure the legislative recognition of ownership of the trade unions of the former Union located in Ukraine and the property acquired by professional associations in their activities. The need for recognition of such a right is due to the fact that the period of ownership of the FPU in its operation and repair, including capital, the creation of new facilities, related property complexes, and professional organizations in Ukraine, has cost considerable money. Therefore, it must become the property of the relevant professional professional organizations of Ukraine and legal persons established in accordance with Ukrainian legislation for their participation. In addition, the adoption of the law will create conditions for ensuring the implementation by the professional organizations of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to rest and social protection by clearly defining the status of property of the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u31	and other farming subjects. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance notes that the implementation of the bill may lead to an increase in the cost of Ukraine’s state budget associated with the formation of a State Property Fund for Real Estate. The joint representative body of representative U.S. trade unions at national level supports the bill. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance does not support the bill. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee on Social Policy and Work recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to article 114, paragraph 1, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt the law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before the National MPs sign up to support Abba's criticism of the bill (two for, two against), I have traditionally failed to announce in the morning and welcome our deputies who are celebrating today. It's my birthday. This is Pressman Alexander Semenović and Orotuk Yuri Miranovic. Hello. (Applause) Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy Paulov, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u33	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished fellow MPs. Alexander Valentinović, I ask you, if we have determined that we are not in violation of the Rules, everyone is voting for himself. I'm asking you, as was the requirement of your party structure to ours, that there be no MPs in the room from the morning of the first line. Currently, for example, there is no Jarem, Kugel, Bondarenko and their cards. We therefore demand that the faction of the Party of the Regions publish the list of missing deputies and block the cards of these absent MPs in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, I announce after the national MPs speak, the names of the missing national MPs. Please sign up Alexander Stoyan of Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u35	I give the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u36	Please, Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you all that in 2007 we adopted the Law on the Prohibition of the estrangement of professional property in this room. What did that give us? During this time, trade unions, especially Ukrisowprof, Ukrprofessort and other professional organizations, had the opportunity, through the courts of all levels, including overseas, to prove their right to property. Today, the situation is dangerous. If we don't accept it, I would suggest that the committee agree to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. If we don't adopt this law today, we won't be able to further appeal to international trade unions in order to force the Russian Federation to recognize the property of trade unions abroad that are in occupied territory in Crimea as the property of trade unions. By the way, the same problem lies with you about property, especially in the Crimea, which belongs to industrial enterprises that have long ago been listed as shareholders – private property. We have here with you the Act on Occupied Territories, which prohibits anything from doing anything in these areas at all -- it's also wrong. Because if, for example, a healer who belongs to the Zaporoztals pays a tax on land, it turns out that they're going to contribute to the occupation. In this case, trade unions have the right to heal Ukrainian citizens, members of the trade union, members of their families in that territory that is still temporarily occupied. As a former resident of Crimea, the city of Alushta, I am convinced that there will be very little time, a dry euphoria, a collapsed propaganda crack and a population will see that the future of Crimea is only with Ukraine, with Ukrainian trade unions, and with Ukrainian proselytes. I propose a bill of general support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Miroshnichenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u40	Please turn on Edward Leon's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u41	Edward Leonov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Dear friends, we are now considering a draft Act amending the Law on Trades in Ukraine, which actually just freezes the situation, freezes the situation, with professional associations in Ukraine and with their property. Because as we've just heard from the reporters, WCSPS*** continues to live in Ukraine, and that's the principle that there are still trade unions. It's a corrupt criminal organization all over the place. There are people sitting there who get 60,000 dollars of official wages, don't come out of abroad, and the unions don't protect the rights of workers. Professional sanatoriums do not heal workers, but they heal bribes, first of all. So we need to radically change the professional community system, and we do not need to freeze the situation with similar bills. Because who from the Federation of Trades went to Crimea when the problems started, and tried to save property, tried to get the documents out of there, tried to fix a job there? Nobody. I went to the unions and I said, "Who does Crimean sanatoriums?" We're just going to make a statement. Not by statements, but by concrete actions, unions should operate on every enterprise and worker, and workers should be healed in these sanatoriums. And like Sieenko, who works there, who's put Pschenka there, who steals, who, Rosich and his firm, takes over just by raiding these sanatoriums, these boarding houses. Like Saturday, which closes your eyes to what's going on underneath them. All these people are just criminals that need to be done. I'm going to ask the MP and I'm going to demand the criminal responsibility of this leadership of the so-called professional organizations, because the U.K. Trade Federation for today is not a union, it's a private office that doesn't answer to its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, the Medunica People's Deputy, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u43	Oleg Medunica, Party for Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! The Fatherland faction believes that today's bill, in the form it is presented to the Supreme Council, may freeze the situation when a small group of probosses who have held chairs since the collapse of the Soviet Empire can continue to manage the assets of the unions that have been acquired by all workers in Ukraine. So we can't vote for this law in this way. We believe that this property should belong to the people, and so, to all the unions, as is the case in Ukraine, including those that have emerged recently, who are independent of this group of people who are often fighting for it. In 23 years of independence, most of the property of the trade unions disappeared. We need to investigate these facts, deal with them, and only then is it considered that we should approach this issue. And those who have stolen the property that destroyed it have to be held accountable. The property of Crimean sanatoriums is, in our opinion, and its status today, regulated by the Occupational Areas Act, which we adopted in the first reading. So we're not going to vote for this law in that way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u44	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u45	Honorable Ukrainian people, respected citizens, especially those who have spent their entire conscious lives counting the union mafia first of the Soviet Union and then Ukraine's blood money earned by their corn. This bill was introduced before the Crimean problem. And to tell you the truth, I'm sorry that my colleague of the people's deputies went up to the rostrum and began to speculate on the Crimean theme of taking property from the Ukrainian people, from ordinary Ukrainian people, that costs hundreds of millions of dollars. You tore up all the national trade property, transferred the property that costs, what billions of dollars in bills, to the property of your supporters. You've ruined the union movement, and so I'm telling you, unlike your mafia, I'm initiating and creating the first independent national union in Ukraine, so let's call it "the movement of the common Jews." It will protect the interests of the common people everywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u46	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u47	And it's going to be one place for every oligarch, every business director, and it's going to be one place for ordinary Ukrainian citizens, for whom we and all of you live all your conscious lives, and in previous years, using the roof of the Presidents, we've robbed these people. I won't let you do that. In Ukraine, there will be an independent, single, large trade union that will defend the interests of the common people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I was asked to know about the missing MPs. In connection with what was called the name, Alexander Kugel, a national deputy, wants to speak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I would like to draw the attention of the audience to the fact that I am in the hall, and I am very pleased to have this special attention to my member of the Party of the Regions. I would like to recommend that you follow your own who are not in the room, especially the accountant Elena Bondarenko, who deals with the mandatory presence in the hall. Please, guys, take control, but on your territory, and I'll be in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, at the request of the National Deputies, I hereby announce the missing deputies who are on board or ill: Popescu, Sobolev, Ariev, Večerko, Heratchenko, Kiwalov, Ljevočina, Mirimsky, Pilipenko, Simonenko, Shevchenko, Tsagnibok Andrew, Shevchenko Andri, Zarubinsky, Katerinczuk. Reubenian is, I'm sorry. There's a katerinchuk. You see, I was given unobjective information. Bondarenko, Caletnik, Final, Demiscan, Yegorov, Bulah. Dear colleagues, the author of the law asks for one minute to sum up the debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry you didn't hear what I said in my speech. Once again, if we're at the legislative level today, if we don't secure all the property in all the unions, the assets in the Crimea will go to waste. Are you going to pour water on Putin's mill? I also said that there is an all-consolidated organisation in Moscow, which is the successor of the VCRPS. Tomorrow she's going to make claims to the unions that it's their property and no one's going to take it away. Let's think about the workers. The only way is: vote for this law now, the unions will fight, 156 trade unions will support it, and then we'll figure it out in the state: either take it to the state, or give it to everyone you want. But what I'm saying is, over the years of independence, 15 times they tried to take the property of the unions from the Supreme Council's rostrum through the courts. 200 lawsuits in the last two years. And the unions have proven that they have legal ownership of property. There's no problem, there's one problem: the property of the unions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit in your workplace now so that we can determine the fate of this law. I'm the only one who's focusing your attention on what they're talking about in support of this law. Its aim is to protect against the looting of a professional property that is temporarily occupied in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And it is the author of the law who sets that goal. I'd ask you at least on the first reading let's accept the problems you've been talking about, and we're going to work on the second reading procedure. I'd like you, your honors, to identify a hall from this issue. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system and determine yourself to the national MPs. Accept in the first reading as a basis. [[10:52:53]] For-125 Unfortunately, no decision is made. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 45, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 30, 31 – Sovereign. Ukraine, 0 is Freedom, 0 is KPU, 18 is non-fractional. Dear colleagues! Please, on this question, an offer. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! I'd like to address the members of the Supreme Council. Please. It's about Ukrainian property. I've never had anything to do with the unions. Never had any profit from it. But the point is that we have to defend the national interests of Ukraine. Let's vote at least in the first reading. Well, we all call ourselves patriots! You can't do that! Please come back and vote on at least the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the only thing I can do is go back to this question, but 120 votes are a demonstration that we're not going to be able to accept it. So, dear fellows, I can re-read it, let's try to support it. Please identify yourself and support this project for re-reading. Please vote. For redrafting the law. Support me, colleagues. [[10:54:27]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 62, Impact – 2, Economic Development – 29, 33 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, the Company – 0.23 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next question of the draft Humanitarian Aid Act on the activities of the Humanitarian Aid Commission. You remember how many problems and complaints the citizens have about this very issue. I don't see the National MP's Zibank. It is, isn't it? His deputy, co-author, please, National Deputy Suhi. Please, Your Honor, support the simplified procedure for dealing with this matter. Please, Your Honor, back up and identify yourself. Please vote. [[10:55:27]] For 172 The decision is not taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I'll speak briefly. Remember, just recently in this session hall, when the Committee on Social Policy, the Committee on Pensioners, seized the complaints of charities. We held a hearing at the Social Policy Committee on what. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine transferred the functions of the Commission for Humanitarian Assistance to the Cabinet of the Ministry of Social Policy. Remember, then, in 2013 the Ukrainian national deputy, Andriy Mihajlovich Pavlovski, asked the Minister of Social Affairs on Government Day, what happened? Why hasn’t charity been cleared up for months? You remember, though, when Christmas presents were still unscathed in June. Then you got the answer about the cat, about the dog. By the way, I want to remind everyone that this food from overseas for homeless dogs and cats is coming from abroad with this humanitarian aid. The drugs stopped at the border. At the border, children’s insulins, hospital equipment, and disabled cars became critical. And then we heard stories about the quality of Mercedes and Audi and all that. No, they were cars with manual care, then colleague Pavlovsky received an answer about cats and dogs, and we came to the conclusion that if the Ministry of Social Policy was not dealing with these functions, then the work of the commission, which was made up of representatives of different types, was the commission at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If we see today that the Ministry of Social Policy is dealing with humanitarian issues, we can get it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u57	And we propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. If we see that the Ministry of Social Policy, which is now headed by new people in power to deal with a humanitarian woman, has specific dates, because there are many deputies in this room, the courts are doing this. And when the charity started paying terrible, hundreds of thousands of fines for the fact that charity aid was on the border, it wasn't worth it. So we proposed to our committee to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u58	Please welcome Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, head of the profile committee. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u59	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Suskevich, head of the Supreme Council Committee on the Rights of Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the draft law submitted by the members of the Committee on Social Policy in charge of Cybenk and considered it at its meeting. Dear colleagues, as has already been said here specifically, are invited in this bill to return to what was destroyed by the authorities, the past authorities led by Yanukovic have destroyed the system of non-corruption – public, transparent – because it deals with issues related to the administration of receiving and distribution of humanitarian aid. What I'm saying is that we all know, and that's what's known by administration, that the main beneficiaries of humanitarian aid are social organizations of people with disabilities, veterans of war and labor, rehabilitation institutions of people with disabilities, health institutions, children with disabilities, the Red Cross Association of Ukraine and other charitable and humanitarian organizations. What I'm saying is that the committee's consideration of this bill was a very strong fact because it touched on the considerable additional costs of humanitarian aid recipients in paying for storage of cargo at warehouses and corruption schemes that existed during the administration of humanitarian aid in the past government. I'll only give you one fact. One charity must now pay more than 400,000 dollars to receive humanitarian aid. Humanitarian supplies are being destroyed today. And another fact. I'd like you to pay attention, dear colleagues. Today there are many international ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u61	Today, many international organizations are ready to provide financial relief. But they would like to guarantee not one ministry, not one person in the Ministry, but a commission at the Cabinet of Ministers to guarantee that this financial aid will be used for Ukrainian citizens who are not socially protected. I repeat. The system is corrupt, the system is weak, it doesn't work administratively. And today, the government commission, which includes the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Mineconomy, customs, public organizations, national deputies, will be able to really ensure transparency and inequity in receiving humanitarian aid. What I'm saying is, the Chief Science Administration has a point. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. And I ask you to support this bill that will help our socially vulnerable citizens. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a two-in-a-row speech. Please. Please turn on the microphone of the Chechtov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u63	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues, with all the importance of this bill, but once again I would like to draw attention to the problem that we can provoke mass civilian bloodshed in Luhansk and Donetsk. Today we need to rise above our party, ideological principles. Today we need to look at the situation as a whole and understand that Ukrainian citizens in both the south and east, and in Lviv and Donetsk are our citizens, these are our people, the people of Ukraine. Therefore, we ask, once again, to stop what will then be impossible to return, to put on the agenda and, as Nestor Ivanovich said, to vote on the Amnesty Act, which was adopted in February. And then we will significantly lower the level of political temperature in the south-east and let the people of the south-east understand that the official Kiev can listen and hear those who live in the industrial heart of the country, those who live in Donbassa, Luhansk, Donetsk, in Kharkiv. By the way, 65 people have been arrested in Harikov. So please. Until this law is put on the agenda until the Opposition Act is put on the agenda, because today we need a strong democratic power, and there will be no strong democratic power in Ukraine until there is a strong opposition. A strong position requires the Opposition Act. He's written down, he's written down by another former opposition, and today's power. We also ask him to put the day and vote. Only then will we vote in favour of the laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the content of the matter under discussion, the question under discussion. I've already spoken, and I repeat to the representatives of the Party of Regions, when you're willing not to be a pianist, but to solve the question, we're ready to do it quickly and effectively. And there is no need to interrupt Parliament's sessions in order to draw attention to ourselves. We know about the problems that are happening and are willing to solve them effectively enough. So please do not repeat three times the information that has already been heard. Dear colleagues, the word is "Alexandra Kugel," the faction of "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the law is really important. And we thank our colleague, Ludmila Dennisov, for his introduction. Because each of the national MPs knows and touches on questions of assistance for their own district, for their citizens to form the charity that, thank God, we thank all those who provide it -- both Poland and Canada and America and other countries. We thank you for your help. For their part, what are the comments to this bill? I want them to be on the first reading with the transcript. Let's see if we've submitted all the documents and by the terms we haven't received any answers or refusals, the documents are considered supported. This is a silent agreement. This is a mandatory decision that will make it possible for government agencies to work out relief work under normal conditions. Thank you. We support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sabay, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u67	Please give the floor to the national deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u68	Please turn on the microphone of the Zelik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u69	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to remind you that the whole committee on social policy and work was the initiators of this bill. After we met with representatives of those public organizations who were screaming and now are yelling because the cargo they're transporting to Ukraine for free, and this is, as we said, medicine and syringes and insulins and beds, even emergency cars for our cities. So once again, I agree with my colleague Drusch's position, we have to hand this commission over to the Cabinet of Ministers just because this committee under the Cabinet of Ministers can work effectively and will have more weight. And this will allow those public organizations to unscramble the goods more quickly and to distribute them to those who need them. We will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u70	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Vaszczuk Katherina Timofievni. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u72	Please turn on Katherine Vaschuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! I want to pay attention to this problem, I've repeatedly asked MPs about it, I've asked the Cabinet of Ministers. How easy it is to break a system that works effectively and not create a more effective new one that causes problems! This is a classic example of the blurry of humanitarian aid. More than 100 charities call out for the second year, asking that the matter be resolved more quickly. So, indeed, the committee's actions are faithful. And today, as soon as possible, this law was passed, and he asked the Cabinet of Ministers to create this commission that would work. The materials worked, the experience, they're all stored in the Cabinet of Ministers, and it's an opportunity for people who are dealing with urgent, pressing, defenseless citizens, the defenseless part of our society, those who need help. That's why I'm calling on everyone in this room to vote for this law so that it doesn't go on again, and that people who need our support today don't suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please speak to the National MP Pinzenik. Please give me one minute, lady. And the national MP, Fedorac. Is that what I'm saying? Hey, tough guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law provides for a solution to a simple administrative problem: the law allows for the exemption from taxation of humanitarian aid, and the question is, Which governing body should make a decision? There are only two institutions in the system of central executives that have the right to make decisions: the first is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the second is the Ministry. It's in no way possible for any commission to perform that function. The Commissions may carry out advisory, advisory bodies. Transfer of authority. The commission washes away responsibility and destroys the system of power. This is the first aspect of the problem that I want to raise. Problem number two: we need to understand clearly what problem we're talking about. We're not talking about the humanitarian problem, we're talking about the tax problem. And the issue of tax policy is the competence of the Ministry of Finance. When a colleague of mine said that the Ministry doesn't pull a car and that the car should be passed on to someone else, I'll say otherwise.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u77	In that case, they change the minister, but they don't take functions. The strike party is ready to vote in favour of a very simple law that will contain one norm, which is that we hand over the authority to exempt humanitarian aid from the payment of taxes to the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the proper direction of activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u78	Please, National Deputy Opanaschenko, one minute, and we'll make a decision. I'm going to the secretariat, and I'm asking you to invite all the deputies to the decision room. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u79	I'd like to see all my colleagues. Dear colleagues, we have an authorized body that is obliged to examine all humanitarian aid. And he's the one responsible for it. For the whole procedure. If we are. let's split it between everyone, you know, the responsibility, I think it's the opposite to make more mess. That's why I'm supporting my colleague Pinzenik of the People's Deputy. And against allocating this responsibility by, you know, the responsibility of checking humanitarian assistance. I think it'll only put chaos into the test and there won't be one person responsible for it. The coalition and many parties now have the full power to work with their personnel, to take on qualified, honest personnel who are responsible and to resolve the issue of humanitarian assistance, because it is indeed very important to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u80	Please, from the government, please, a minute. Turn on the microphone, you have a microphone running, please. Dear colleagues, help the government to speak. Colleagues, instruct the government how to work with a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today, the Ministry of Social Policy has launched a mechanism and a decision has been taken by the government on the last of March 12, 87 on the work of the humanitarian commission. From the day of the arrival of the papers on "humanitarian" to the decision-making process, which is approved by the Minister of Social Policy, it takes just eight days. On the ninth day, the decision is on the Ministry’s website. In fact, we will not deny the question of which body should decide. But I want to talk to you. Today there is a great deal of humanitarian aid for our army. If we change the mechanism now, we will lose a lot of time to rebuild — who should make the decision and how to make the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, come on, we've already made a statement, let's take one minute from the non-factional. Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I want to address the non-factional, first and foremost, and our colleagues from most of them. We've all talked about European standards, we've all said that right now we have to unite and do the model that really fits European standards and allows us to manage public finances effectively. And, with respect for our colleagues who made this legislative initiative, they must have had good intentions, but I still think that the arguments that have been put in place to preserve the existing financial management organization through the sole central executive body, which is the Ministry of Finance, are appropriate. And I urge you not to support this legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'll make a very brief comment. I've had experience in government work. And we had a very efficient system. There was a commission to deal with these issues, and then the ministry or the government structure approved this decision, automatically in fact. And then we blocked corruption, because there were representatives of the public, humanitarian organizations, charities, and so on, and at the same time, there was only technical work left for the government. So the choice to take in the first reading is, think about it, your esteemed colleagues, and work on the second reading so that the commission will already work with this data set, and then the government or the Ministry of Finance will approve this decision. Please, from the authors of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by Valery Mikhailovich Sushkewicz, Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work to withdraw this bill today from the consideration and vote to allow us (two committee members) together with the new composition of the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance (must) to develop an active mechanism to ensure that humanitarian assistance to Ukraine comes as it should be, as Alexander Kugel suggests.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I propose to support the proposal, the initiative of the committee. Valerius Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u87	I'm sorry, I just want to say that it's not a little bit like that. My offer was a little different. You know, the bill just comes back. Alexander Valentinovich, you said absolutely right. In a government that worked before the Janukovich government and the Janukovich administration actually worked a transparent mechanism for recognition of humanitarian aid. I point out that some speakers here talked about tax exemptions and so on. It's completely different. Friends, it's about recognition or non-recognition of cargo with humanitarian aid. And this today should be with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Mineconomy, the Ministry of Public Organizations, and the Ministry of Finance. It's gone now! There's a corrupt scheme that works, that'll work, that'll delay, and that's done behind bribes. Alexander Valentinovich! I'm sorry, don't disturb the chairman. I'm asking you to postpone just the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I can see in the hall, in the mood of factions. We're just going to put it to a vote right now, and we're going to break this law, and we're going to put a dot on it, and we're not going to be able to deal with it during the session. That is why I, my honourable colleagues, ask you to remove this issue from consideration, to support Parliament, so that Parliament does not object, and to entrust the authors of the law and the professional committee to consult with the government. Is this position taken? Roger that. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. I received a statement from the representatives of the "Supreme European Ukraine" faction and the "SUMP" faction to announce the break for 30 minutes. In this regard, colleagues, I propose as follows. If we weren't to delay Parliament's inefficient work, but concentrate on enacting laws, we'd be taking a 30-minute break right now. At 12 o’clock, we would not have taken a break, but we would have worked until the end of our time to make decisions. No objections? There's no objection. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Ten to twelve, I ask all deputies to meet in the hall. We will consider a very important question. I ask the leaders of factions and MPs who join the coalition to enter the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Please do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been very difficult to meet the leaders of the MP factions and groups, and I hope that we will start working with you now. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the session room. I ask the secretariat to make three, not one, but three announcements for the people’s deputies because not everyone understands the meaning for the first time. Therefore, colleagues, please, for all the national deputies, invite everyone to the session room. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that (I don't see the agenda, I've found) we've discussed a lot of questions. These included discussions from the Cabinet of Ministers on the content of government laws, anti-crisis laws, difficult but necessary laws for the country. We'll work with them now. Moreover, we discussed and consulted with the opposition and found a format for the opposition not to work with ultimatums, but to work with everyone in the country to find consensus in the hall. We'll find consensus in the hall -- we'll always find consensus in our society. So we agreed that we would now, virtually without discussion, honorary colleagues, without discussion, decide on the Law on Parliamentary Opposition. On the first reading, we will take this decision and listen only to the chairman, more loyally, the head of the committee and the coauthor of the law. And we can, in order to be able to make a decision on the main issues, in the first reading, adopt this law, work it out for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I also took the view of coalition colleagues who have made an objective, I think, a remark that members of the coalition are allowing themselves to speak improperly against each other. It's also compromising the coalition, and I think power in general. When we have comments, we have constructive suggestions, even criticism, because without criticism we cannot work properly. We can bring together a coalition, assemble faction leaders, and discuss the matter by identifying it. Because sometimes criticism is groundless, and we're not going to get any results apart from humiliating each other. Therefore, as Head of the Supreme Council, I personally apologize to the members of the "Supreme European Ukraine" and "Economic Development" for the incorrect expressions that were heard yesterday in the Hall. Please accept these apologies and ask the heads of all factions to hold, say, a discussion of this problem with the deputies of their factions so that we do not find out the relationship in the hall, but work in Ukraine for the result. Dear colleagues, I see there are enough people to make decisions. And please come to the rostrum. I'm out of procedure. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u90	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I would like you to confirm that the people who are in Donetsk, and who are in a rather difficult situation, will not be prosecuted for the actions that have been taken before.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u91	I confirm this position. We have regular talks with the Luganans. And when the Donetsks, let's say the citizens who live in Donetsk are now in the administration, they also support this proposal, I'm willing to extend it to the Donetsk region. I say again, my friends, we need to find solidarity in society, we need to prevent the blood of Ukrainian citizens from spilling. We need to resolve the matter with minimal victims, which is important to us. Because human life is the highest value. We need to keep this in mind. Dear colleagues, I ask that we proceed to discuss the matter. Please, Valery Volodymyrovich on the rostrum. We agreed not to cut it short, but not to discuss it, so three minutes will be enough for you? That's enough. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u92	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, you know that this Act of Opposition has already been in the session hall. And after the Constitution was adopted in 2004, and finally became effective in 2006, the law was considered in the session hall. So, as today's faction representing the opposition in this sessional room, we're talking to most of us in order to narrow this discussion down to existing bills, we've taken the very basis of the proposals that we've been considering in Parliament. This law will allow us to stop at last the times when one part of the hall stops listening to another, without prejudice to the fact that everyone here is a national representative of the Ukrainian people. In particular, the bill proposes to clearly define the following rights of parliamentary opposition: the right to representation in the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its bodies; the right to participate in parliamentary control; the right to participate in parliamentary opposition in the budgetary process; the right to form an opposition government; other subsidiary bodies; the right to speak on the agenda of the day-to-day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the right to claim; the right to form an order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the right to co-report in the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the right to participate in the formation of the personal composition of the public authorities; the right to access to media; the right to appeal to the authorities of the State; the right to remedy violations of the rule of law. In addition, the bill proposes the establishment of responsibilities for parliamentary opposition. Thus, members of Parliament’s opposition to the exercise of the rights established by law. Acting in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Action that takes into account the interests of citizens and the state. To offer an alternative to the official political course of the parliamentary majority and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and ways to implement the political course. Support, make decisions on cessation of opposition activities, including by individual national deputies. The consequences of adopting the project will be the legislative definition of opposition activities in the Supreme Council and the settlement of relations resulting from opposition activities. Implementation by the State of its tasks related to the development of democracy in Ukraine Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! As we have discussed the text of the law as authors, we have agreed that we are already withdrawing the proposals in the bill to shape the leadership of the Derfinmonitoring with the participation of the parliamentary opposition. We came together to think that this would be the prerogative of the majority and the Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, we are working on aspects related to the formation of the Court of Auditors, realizing that this should be the control of the parliamentary opposition. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, because it is he who will allow us to hear each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we agreed to accept this project on our first reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much, we agreed not to discuss it at this time. The only thing I'm saying is that when we were in opposition, we proposed such a bill, unfortunately, that's when most of us didn't listen. So I'm asking most people, we shouldn't limit the opposition, we should go the way of building a civilized country where the opposition has rights. The only thing we shouldn't do is, your honor, these rights to abuse and never move in the direction of separatism, threats to statehood, to the integrity of the country, etc. So, honourable colleagues, I ask that without discussion we support this law in the first reading, and then for the second reading, they can work on it to be an effective tool for our work, for our parliamentary work, and for the social consolidation tool, no matter who is in power, who is in opposition. Please, Your Honor, support this law, it's 4494 has a registration number, in the first reading. Please vote, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:49:13]] For 218. Dear colleagues, 218 is not a decision. I'm asking you to take your seats. By factions, please show me. Dear colleagues, I'm going to the majority, let's work on the result. The Party of Regions is 50, Fatherland is 53, Impact is 1, Economic Development is 28, Sovereign European Ukraine is 26, 33 is Freedom, 0 is the Company, the Non-Factional is 27. Please turn on Hanna Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, in one of the latest transmissions on Savik Schuster's lifeline, Mrs. Timoshenko guaranteed that this week, she guaranteed that the Opposition Act would be passed. And she's saying that as a presidential candidate. I believe that this law needs to be worked out and adopted after the presidential elections so that no one can use it for the pre-election pierra. I think everyone in this room understands me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, please. I'm turning to the Fatherland faction, please vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u96	Dear voters, dear colleagues! You know, really, maybe someone is trying to use the legislative process for their election campaign. But it is obvious that democracy in the country is possible only if there is fair competition between the political forces. I don't know how it's gonna be after the presidential election. If we have a chance to pass this law right now, I think we should do it. This will show the world that people in Ukraine went to Midan for European values. I call on our colleagues from Strike to participate in the discussion and support this bill. The more I heard, the very discussion they were asking for before the vote. And then they do. They'll back you up. Valentine. Alexander Valentinovich, let's let the factions speak and support this law. Thank you. And the non-fractionals, please vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u97	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone. I see the hand of the national MP Kirilenko Viacheslav. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u98	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party for Ukraine, Fatherland. Well, many scribblings around this law have been broken in past convocations. And he's never been accepted. Why? Because the ruling coalition never wanted to meet a coalition at different times. Now. More specifically, opposition. Now is a unique moment where we feel like we can find most of the votes under this decision. We will vote in favour of this law in the interests of social harmony, but the opposition must also be stately above all. Opposition does not mean freedom from the Constitution and enforcement of laws. That is, if the Opposition Act and we accept it together, together with the parliamentary opposition, we are doing our utmost to ensure that Lugansk, Doneck, Kharkiv, all other regions are at peace and that there are direct calls from the parliamentary opposition to people who submit to separatist appeals, stop this senseless opposition and approach a peaceful, peaceful one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u99	Thank you. National Deputy Carpunz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u100	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, a very important law, and you know that the strike faction, when it was in opposition, consistently advocated the normalization of the rights of opposition and most. But if we fought for legality, if we fought for order, let's put this law into the order of the day. Before that. Before that, we will give this law to the Ukrainian National Deputies in order to see that it is not another bribe for each other's positions, and this is indeed a procedure that will bring together our nation, which will bring together opposition and power in Parliament, which will be for the sake of the State's interests to decide for the benefit of our state, not another inter-minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I'm informing the people's deputies that last time last parliamentary week we put this law in order of the day. It's included in the agenda is the first. Secondly, all the leaders, including the Head of the Strike faction, were present at a meeting and there were no objections to this issue and its acceptance in the first reading did not come. I'm asking you to turn on Oleg Tuggniboku's microphone, now I see your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u102	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, we need to organize a process here in this room to vote on the double laws today, including the economic laws that will now save the state from that crisis, from the chaos that the Yanukovich regime has set up. But I want to remind you that the opposition must be structural and governmental. And think, representatives of the present opposition, that even after voting for this bill right now, and for it, you have to vote that you're actually going to confirm that you're the resident of the enemy state. I want to remind you that this law will not be indulgence and to avoid the responsibility for the crimes that you must be responsible for, and for the separatism that is being organized now, including your national deputies, throughout Ukraine. We must now vote on this Opposition Law and bear in mind that the opposition must be responsible for the situation in the State. And it has to be a government body. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u103	Anatoly Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u104	It is clear from international experience, the experience of developed competitive democratic countries, that only the state that creates conditions for the balance of power branches, the presence of structured opposition, which seeks to control power, the opposition that is the source of alternative views, the programmes, the State's development strategy, only so possible the formation of modern State development policies, including Ukraine. It is essential that the opposition, regardless of political colour, does not focus its efforts on the destruction of the state, territorial integrity, or the economy. So right now we have a chance to pass a modern law on opposition. And we're proposing from the Economic Development Group that we put this law to the vote and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u105	Thank you. Oleg Easy, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u106	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, I urge all of you to support the Opposition Act. You and I stood on the ground, and our brothers gave their lives for Ukraine to be a democratic, civilized state. We should not be like a gang of regionals who, when they came to power, started planting in the prisons of their political opponents. So if we want to live in a democratic country, I'm talking to those deputies who are now in power, there's nothing permanent under that sun: those who are in power today will be in opposition tomorrow. Therefore, the opposition bill needs to be supported. At the same time, I turn to those who finance and support separatists in the eastern part of the country to MPs from the Party of Regions and Communists. Come out here on the rostrum, declare the unity of Ukraine, integrity, sovereignty of Ukraine, bring out your people and lay down your weapons. More before Easter. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u107	Oleg Zarubinski and we'll make decisions, dear colleagues. I can get out of here. There's no time. Turn on Oleg Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u108	I don't know, respectable colleagues, maybe someone who's studied political science might say what country is the law of opposition. But the situation is in such a way that we today see what is more important. More important or detailed compliance with the practices of other countries or the solution to the issue that is urgent in Ukraine. In Ukraine, indeed, today. Ukraine needs harmony. Consistency does not mean that no one will fight with each other. What is more, Heraclet said that everything comes about because of the struggle. But this fight must be civilized. It's not gonna be a fight, it's not gonna be the use of weapons, it's got to be the respect of the Constitution. So under the current conditions, even though the issue is problematic in terms of world experience, I think it's worth voting for this bill in the first reading today. The only thing is, I really don't want this to be a vote by covering up certain culinary arrangements. Actually, I think that's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u109	I understood the suggestion that this law should be the center around which there will be harmony in Parliament and in society, and we will be moving in a very civilized way. Dear friends! I'm asking you, I'm addressing all my respectable colleagues. We've discussed it. I see your hands, I'll give you another question. It's just an hour. We're not going to be able to accept important questions right now. And I can see on the timer we're running out of time. Colleagues, I'm asking you to back me up right now. First, go back to that question and support it in the first reading. Please return to this question of the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition, 4494, please return. [[12:59:55]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please support this law in the first reading. Act 4494, please vote. [[13:00:17]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 49, Parenthood 68, Impact 0, Economic Development 33, Sovereign European Ukraine 24, Freedom 30, Company 0, non-fractional 29. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very important questions that we need to discuss right now. We agreed on the Conciliation Council that yesterday Parliament was unable to bring very important issues into the agenda. I ask the distinguished National Deputies to now support the inclusion in the order of the day of three government laws: 4645, 4646, 4647. These are important government laws that have to do with reducing the value added tax for medicines. This is a very important question, dear colleagues. I'm asking everyone to back him up. Introduce, in the order of the day. Please vote. [[13:01:35]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, I did not understand the position, even though it was discussed on the Conciliation Council and all the leaders. There's a one-law offer. Okay, I'll make one law. Please, Your Honor, 4645 government law. Please support all national MPs in the agenda. [[13:02:14]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. Regions -45, Fatherland -70, Impact - 0, Economic Development - 33, Sovereign European Ukraine - 30, 32 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 20. Please, the following law, 4646, please support the distinguished national deputies to incorporate this law into the order of the day of our session. Please vote. [[13:02:54]] For 231 Thank you. 4644, requesting government. 4644. Dear colleagues, there is a decision, 231 votes for inclusion in the agenda. 4644. Dear colleagues, he's involved. Please include in the order of the day session 4644, distinguished colleagues. Let's put it this way, it's the order of the day this law, when we go to its consideration, we're going to include it. No objections? Come on, 4647, which was not supported yesterday, literally two votes is not enough. 4647 is related to organisation, regulation of work, including medical matters. We voted and made a decision. 4647. Please support the bill, please support. [[13:04:13]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we can return to this question later. I ask the honourable colleagues to return to the agenda, and we will now consider the issue that should have been taken up and considered, these are two laws (I ask for a reduced procedure to support them) to amend the election of the ARC Supreme Council deputies, the local rural councils, the village councils (for the selection of city heads for the majority majority of the majority of the majorities). Dear colleagues, this is Bill 1098 and 1098/1. I'm asking Mikola Dmitrievich Catherinechuck to the rostrum. Before he starts speaking, please support the room so that we can discuss this with a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:05:16]] For 201 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Please, Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u110	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I'm introducing a bill that's not new. About 2008, I propose to change the urban head selection system to take place in two rounds. In terms of the purpose of this bill, it is linked to the implementation of the basic principle of democracy, which is the rights of the majority. What's happening to us today with the selection of city heads looks something like this. The candidate works with a social group. It takes not more than 16-15 percent of the total population of the city, and then it serves them. And that's how it's chosen almost forever. In Kiev, for example, some 18 percent of the 2 million 174 voters chose the last measure, and more than 350 voted. Imagine that this mayor works exclusively for one social group and these cities will never have a Wi-Fi for young people, there will never be normal hospitals, normal roads, because in fact there will be a completely different task and another task and other support. Therefore, my proposal concerns the very implementation of the European principle of democracy, where the right of communities is shaped by the right of the majority. So we suggest that cities, with a population of more than 500,000, be selected in two rounds. This is 8 cities in Ukraine. And I think that the adoption of this standard will give us an opportunity to get an additional legitimacy of the measure. That's why we choose the President in two rounds, because we want the majority of the people in the country to vote for him. I call on all factions to support this bill, and I think it will give citizens the opportunity to influence the responsible authority and allow all those who vote in favour of the measure to have support in their activities after such a measure. Thank you for your attention. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, from the profile committee, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u112	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government yesterday at its meeting on 9 April 2014 reviewed draft laws proposing amendments to the Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, with the aim of introducing a major electoral system of the vast majority. This bill, with registration number 1098, was completed and submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Catherinechuk, and an alternative draft of the Law with registration number 1098-1, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Odarchenk. In doing so, I point out that Bill 1098 proposes the introduction of a marked electoral system in cities with over 500,000 voters, and Bill 1098-1 proposes the establishment of a major electoral system of an absolute majority in the election of rural, rural and urban deputies. I mean, everyone without exception. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, having examined the bill to comply with the Constitution, concluded that it did not conflict with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Committee on Budgetary Questions concluded that it had a serious impact on the budget, increasing the spending of government and local budgets. The Committee on Rules, which examined the bill in accordance with the Rules, noted that the drafters of the legislative initiative were obliged to add financial and economic justifications to this bill. During the discussion at the meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village and Urban Heads on the establishment of a major system of absolute majority (No.109-1) (submitted by People's Deputy Odarchenk). As a result, the first reading is to reject. And the draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Pro Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u113	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u114	The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, village, city heads" for the selection of city heads by majority majority majority majority majority majority of the city, assisted and submitted by the national deputy Catherinechuk. As a result, the first reading provides the basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Please, People's MP Mirny, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u117	Please come to Andri Illenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u118	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I think the Chinese remember very well, a story with the double selection of Mr. Chernewetsk as the city head of Kiev, which was done by handing out Greek to a certain category of population, a very small one actually among the general population of Kiev. This part of the population voted in favour of him, and he twice got the opportunity to rob a city for billions of dollars. And today, I see so much that not everyone in Parliament is ready to draw conclusions from this situation, and yet to correct these mistakes. I am convinced that, first of all, in the capital city of Kiev, and generally in cities larger than half a million, there is a need to conduct a two-hour electoral system for the election of a city head. Because the city head must be a legitimate figure. He must have a real mandate of trust from people. This should not be a random person who, using certain manipulative technologies, took this chair. It must be a person who has the full support of people and is willing to use this support for the benefit of the community. I'm convinced that every faction, every MP, has to decide on this vote and support this bill, because we need to show that we're going to listen to the opinion of the great city community and, above all, the Kiev community. We must have legitimate full-fledged prisoners in our cities. And I think that any of the national MPs, if they want to know what the same sneezes think about it, they can meet and listen. Absolutely all the people I meet personally, they insist on it and they demand that the mayor's election be in two rounds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Mikola Catherinechuk. He gives the word of Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u120	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Respectable members of the Ukrainian Parliament, respectable rights, leftists, centrists, self-centerists, political transvestites and so on, and so on and so forth. I am convinced that today we have a chance, a very good chance, to avoid the great misunderstanding and the great injustice that has been established for a long time in the Ukrainian electoral process. This is where Andri Illenko said, well, that voters can't understand how the candidates, let's say, on the head of a city or a district center, are talking about big cities, and the Katerinczuk law defines a category of cities up to 500,000 and after 500,000, that is, after 500,000 -- it's already about district centers, it's really a lot of episodes, when with a pitiful number of votes -- 12-13 there's 15,000 people being measured. It is not surprising that he was followed by a chauffeur of corruption, misunderstandings, the sale of apartments, the sale of land there and so forth. Because the moment of responsibility before a large number of people is always working. Because in this case, when it comes to Kiev and cities, we have to support it, it's a practice in Europe that's a lot of countries -- both Greece, Belgium, and France, and the Czech Republic -- we can call it, call it, and call it. Because of this, it's very natural that the second round comes out with those who win the most votes and then compete with each other. And then there's a completely real and fair possibility that's going to be taken over by the one who out of all the voters who came to the polls, got 50 plus one. 50 percent plus one vote. I am convinced that we must support
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u121	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u122	The bill is sure to be. It is progressive, and it will bring justice back to our electoral system of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u123	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, you are now. You've been handed the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support this bill in the first reading, and the second reading to work with us to include more than 500,000 cities, including district centres. Dear colleagues, there has been a very critical situation in the district centers. The Marys of the city repair a third of the city, directing the order. Two-thirds of the district centers -- no one's going in deep, no one's begging. We need to make a decision, in the end, and in such large cities, we need to give the community the opportunity to choose the city's head by the majority. I am convinced that after the next election we would have most of the changed heads and would have changed the situation on the spot, the mayors would have heard their voters. I'm going separately to the Strike Party, which unfortunately didn't vote for this bill before.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u125	Get out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u126	So, honourable colleagues, this vote will allow, in the end, in Kiev once and for all, for the majority to choose the city's head. I'm sure with great advantage your leader will win the second round. I'm guessing at least 70 percent. Last but not least, I'm also taking this opportunity to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine, tomorrow, to have the Minister of Finance and the representative of the National Bank report on measures to combat the impairment of the bracelet, on measures that stabilize the exchange rate of the bracelets.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy Kaplin, from the strike faction, please. Now, this is the last speaking, distinguished colleagues. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u128	The political party hit, its leader, all cards, hands, legs for the city mayor's two-way election, first. Thus, Ukrainian citizens will no longer be victims of political speculations and manipulations by various politicians and political parties that break down last night's opposition, today's democratic pool. The other one. I would also very much ask individual candidates to the Presidents of Ukraine, those who already, by analyzing existing ratings, understand who will win these elections, save Donbass' pensioners, the South, small business, hypertonics, whose millions have taken 200 million dollars through a law that has been passed on to overcome the economic disaster; mothers who are poor, but for the Ukrainian people, for our nation's birth, have taken tens of millions of dollars. So I'm asking the Presidents to support the only candidate and save 3 billion dollars for all these simple people, 3 billion dollars! And start reforms in the country, don't let the separatists blow up separatism in the country! In Donbas, in the South, people need order, peace, a package of economic reforms, they need us to do the economy, and there will be no problems. Once again, the only candidate is saving money for the common people. There's nothing to be trained by ordinary citizens, to play politics! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we need to make decisions. I'm asking you to take your seats. Dear colleagues, my friends, I'd like to give everyone a chance to speak, but now we're going to discuss this issue with the government. It's time for a break. We took too many breaks and had too many discussions. I respect all MPs. Let's work on the Rules now. The speeches are over. And now I'm asking you to ask this question, Project 1098, which supported the committee, taking into account the proposals for other district centers. Dear colleagues, we must now adopt this law as a whole so that the Kiev elections will work on this very scheme. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Please note is on the profile committee. Please turn on the Prince's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I ask you to listen to me carefully. The point is that Mikola Dmitrovitch's bill was being prepared until we passed a law on making changes that were complex and that became effective. It's published today. And so, unfortunately, it has changes to articles that no longer exist or that have been changed. So we need, if we want to accept it as a whole, to have the committee carry out such a profound technical and legal drafting of this bill, because. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because without it, we might have something that's going to be normal, and it's just not going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a proposal to vote on the basis of this law. Yeah? First reading, then. Dear colleagues, the only thing we can do then. I'm in favour of voting in general, but the profile committee says that there is a need to adjust the law. We can make it legally and technically so that these articles are brought into line by the committee of profile. Is that what I'm saying? Yes. Dear colleagues, otherwise we are not able to hold elections in Kiev. So, honourable colleagues, I very much ask, with the technical and legal revision of this law, that those articles that have already fallen off, they simply be shortened and there was no reference to them, to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[13:22:56]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 1, Fatherland is 72, Impact is 18, Economic Development is 10, Sovereign European Ukraine is 8, 33 is Freedom, 0 is a Company and is non-fractional. Dear colleagues, to be honest, I don't understand the question when we need it formally to make the law go away, and it doesn't work, so we don't have to accept it as a whole. When we are. I'll remind you, dear fellows, we have Passover holidays. Technically, he can't work in the Kiev elections. When there's a chance. If he's not working, let's not take him at all. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Mikoli Catherinechuku, please turn on the microphone. To the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u132	Dear National Deputies! The bottom line is that deep technical law editing will only apply to three articles: 2, 76, 78. In fact, we are making changes to the re-voting chapter. That's all we're doing. All those procedures that have been laid down in the Knazević Bill, which have been voted on, are preserved. There will be no change. There is therefore a request, perhaps, to return, if possible, to the question of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u133	Valery Puckan faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I ask you to act solely under the Rules. We voted to have two rounds of elections held in Kiev and elsewhere. There are no votes in the room right now. Let's go back to that question later. You can't, totally. We voted, and we support the two-round election. But breaking the Rules is totally out of our hands. We fought against it with the Party of Regions, and now let's not violate the Rules at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, there is an offer, I understand, to return to this question. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u136	Dear Alexander Valentinović, I think we can reach a compromise on this issue on the basis of our consensus council. In view of what you have heard and addressed people in Luhansk and Donetsk with appropriate suggestions. If they accept this proposal, you sign the relevant decree, somehow, as we can see, it can remove some of the tension. The second question is, we have voted in the first reading of the Opposition Act, and we can vote in the first reading of the Electoral Act. And in the afternoon, put the second reading of the Opposition Act in general and vote on the two-track election of Kiev as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I mean, we've got a little bit of a deal going on, it's not right. All I'm saying is, when is there a desire for a reduced procedure, the law on opposition? I can put it in a reduced procedure. But it's a difficult, far-reaching law. This is not a single page. Here is one page of the law that says that there should be a two-track election. Technical question, actually. And these are different things. You know, there really has to be a lot of adjustments, it's impossible to work out the law within three hours. So, dear colleagues, I'm prepared to put the "Resistance Act" in a simplified procedure, not a violation of the Rules, it's a technical issue. And it's that if we don't make decisions today, this law just doesn't work, it doesn't make sense. Do you understand? And just pretend it's "for," but if it doesn't work, it doesn't make sense to pass the law. Please, Your Honor, I ask that we be appointed. I can't help but give him my word. It's from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, we are very often confused about some arrangement with the law that people need. It's a really good law. First of all, he predicts that people by their majority really choose the mayor, and he will have great confidence if he votes for him more than 50 percent. This is really going to be a national mayor. Not the one who has 15 or 20 percent and will actually have some authority. So let's see in this law that we better predict that all cities are included in this electoral system, not just up to 500,000. All in all, even village councils, have the village head care for all its inhabitants. Secondly, if we're giving the governors great powers, let's bring in the governors to even choose. I propose that this law be drafted, that it may be adopted in the first reading, but it should be taken into account and made necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I understand your offer. There's the next format. In general, we can put to the vote in the first reading. And to have the profile committee work on it today, because there are technical issues. And if the committee is willing to bring him to the hall. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Suggestion: Support the Law (1098) in the first reading Please, on the first reading, please support 1098. [[13:28:59]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a government working with us in the morning, but it cannot take an active part in our work. And that's why, in order to activate processes and adopt priority laws without which we can't save billions of budget resources, we're not going to be able to overcome corruption in the public procurement system. So I ask, fellow officials, the government insists that we immediately consider the draft Law on State Procurement. First Deputy Minister of Economics, please. Ah, the Prime Minister will report, so I understand. The Prime Minister himself will report on the State Procurement Act (4587). Dear colleagues, in order for us to be able to make a decision, this is very important, and I ask you to support a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[13:30:03]] For-187 Decision taken. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u140	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The government is asking Parliament to adopt a new edition of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act. The bill was drafted during the last month with the involvement of all political forces and experts, both the European Union and the World Bank. The country is well aware of what is happening in the field of public procurement. The total amount of money that goes through government purchases amounts to 300 billion dollars. The left-hand side of this money that goes to buy drugs that go to commodity values that go to buy petroleum products that are purchased through the Naftogaz system of Ukraine, Skrtransnaft and other state-owned companies is sitting in private pockets. According to expert studies, about 40 percent of the money that goes through the public procurement system remains in the corrupt pockets of those who make these purchases. We suggest a radical change in public procurement approaches. First. We propose to distribute this law to all state companies where the country owns 51 percent or more. This will enable government purchases to be controlled by billions of dollars in energy. The other one. In fact, we suggest that the procedure of buying into one participant in the form in which it existed should be disregarded, namely, when applying the rules on buying goods, jobs, and services only to a participant who was designated by the Prime Minister, whether it was the President. Third. We suggest that the terms of government purchases be substantially reduced. This is a two - and - a - three - fold reduction in these terms so that schools, hospitals, kindergartens, other facilities can quickly conduct transparent public procurement procedures. Next. Our bill reveals all the information on how government procurement is done, who is involved, and on what grounds and conditions a particular subject wants to win a tender for public procurement. We also give the public the right to be present in public procurement. And we're strengthening public control over the spending of billions of dollars in the state budget. We are also asking that the bill does not include the rule on electronic circuits as this rule is non-responsible and may result in a mechanism to avoid transparent purchasing procedures. Our approach enables public procurement to be transparent, open, competitive and as European standards fit. I appeal to the members of Parliament to vote and support this law. If we take it, it'll mean that drugs won't buy four times as much as they're bought, that they won't consume on baby food, that in the Naftogaz system of Ukraine they won't buy 400 percent more than what's worth today. And that all state companies that are going to be subject to this law are going to be transparent, publicly publishing information and only on competitive terms buying any goods and services. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Arseny Petrovich, you know that some MP factions have been asked to strengthen the block of electronic purchases. And I'm commenting that we agreed not to break this law and adopt it as a whole right now, the representatives of the MPs will make separate changes to this law, which apply exclusively to electronic procedures for their use, to a more accelerated procurement regime and to an objective procurement regime. Such a law will soon be passed, and I hope that it will be adopted by Parliament immediately. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Mirno Anatoly Arkadyovich, I apologize, Alexander Borisovich. Is he going to perform? Mr. Alexander? [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Borisovich has passed an alternative law, and I hope that we will find consensus to adopt one right now. This is Maximus Anatoly, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u142	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for the opportunity to speak. We have a draft and registered alternative bill with number 4587-1. But the term "alternative" is, unfortunately, limiting what we wrote there. Because it's an alternative, it's actually an expanded government bill. But since we don't have those words in parliamentary terminology, it's called "alternative." What I want to say on behalf of the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. What the Prime Minister said is holy truth. And basically, shadow capital, the main sources of wealth -- that's exactly what tender purchases are. And it's clear that these streams have to be covered. And the position of our faction, I want to emphasize this, has always been, is and will be national. We have no narrow political interests. And we've always supported and supported what goes for the state, goes for the country, goes for the people, the Ukrainian people. That's why we're going to support the government bill. We will, if he passes, and I'm sure he'll pass, we'll be making those proposals that are in our bill and that are, in our opinion, important and essential, pending consideration as amendments to the second reading. And we're never going to press the buttons, we're not going to vote just because our names aren't there. Therefore, we urge other factions and parliamentary groups to remember that. Which, first of all, Ukraine, everything else is second, third and fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u144	That's why we support the government bill and we urge the MPs to show their state position by voting. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u145	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich. Dear colleagues, let's sign up for the performance. Please. The committee, please, before the record goes into effect, is very brief. Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u146	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Economic Policy has received two bills: 4587, government law concerning public procurement, and 4587-1 of the People's MP of Peace. On April 9, Protocol 24, the Committee on Economic Policy reviewed the draft legislation and made the appropriate decisions: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support Bill 4587, so-called government, on the basis of and in general with the following observations. And I'd like to say a few words for the transcript proposed by the committee. First, in part three of the second paragraph, the second paragraph is available: goods, works, and services related to design, paper, bank notes, coins, and government rewards of Ukraine, their storage, transportation, and billing. Paragraph 20 reads as follows: services that are purchased by banks to provide them with banking services and to conduct banking operations in accordance with the Ukrainian Laws on Banking and Banking and on the National Bank of Ukraine. To be completed with three new paragraphs. First, "Services provided by the National Bank of Ukraine pursuant to the National Bank of Ukraine Act." Paragraph II: "Document forms certifying the person and certifying the citizenship of Ukraine - passports, forms of documents certifying the person and confirming his or her special status, forms of other documents which, according to Ukrainian legislation, require the use of special elements of protection, stamps of excise duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u147	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u148	exclusively manufactured by enterprises that are part of the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as the goods and services needed for their manufacture, are exclusively part of the National Bank." Third paragraph: "Science, Science and Technology Services, which are financed on a competitive basis in accordance with article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology." Next remark, paragraph. The last paragraph of article 10 of the first paragraph is as follows: "Information for publishing on the web portal of the authorized authority may be provided in the form of electronic documents. The means of identifying the author of the electronic document and the cases where the application of the electronic digital signature is mandatory are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Now, in article 12, part two, the following article reads: "The procurement procedures provided for in part one of this article can be applied by electronic means. This does not apply to the written form of sealing and other standards of this law that do not correspond to the substance of electronic means. The electronic means used in procurement procedures should be accessible and guaranteed, not discrimination, but equal access to information for all purchasers. Cases and procedures for the use of electronic means, including ways to identify purchasers, authors of electronic documents, including cases where electronic signatures are used when other means of identification are used. And demand electronics. They should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Next remark. Paragraph 7 of part two of article 22 should be made available in such an editorial. Careful! "The draft contract specifying the conditions that may be changed, or the nature of the conditions that may be supplemented, in accordance with the proposals for competitive trade." Part three of article 31 reads as follows: "Conclusion of a purchase contract is effected by the contracting party by sending the participant a message on the final acceptance of his proposals." It means that there will be no abuse if the winners do not sign the respective contracts. Such a message, together with the offer of competitive bidding, finally accepted by the customer, shall be published in accordance with Article 10. And bring article 10 into line with that observation. Paragraph 9 of Part Two is worded as follows: "The draft contract specifying the conditions that may be changed, or the nature of the conditions that may be supplemented, in accordance with the proposals for competitive trade." Dear friends, the End Positions are proposed. We had a discussion: to include in the bill when a tender is held under the lowest price criteria, reverse auctions. But we've made a joint decision with the Ministry of Economics and the Committee that we're literally going to be doing a separate bill next week, where we're going to prescribe this mechanism to. To delegate these powers to the Cabinet of Ministers and to Parliament, I think we'll have a common position on the committee, with the formulation of "reversive auctions at state." Develop. We made a decision within two months to draft the bill and bring it to the hall. Thank you for your attention. I ask all factions to vote in favour of this bill as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, well, they're willing to speak, I can't help but be able to speak to our colleagues. Please. There are no speeches, no respectable colleagues, no suggestions. No, it's not. There's insistence, there's insistence. Please, National Deputy Tomenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I would think we could find a little more time to discuss this principle, because it's important for me to mention our previous "happy" tender years when there was no session and a week when the government didn't offer us to give up the tender. They came to the session room and said they would. In the country, if we think about it on tender terms, buying gas, oil, something else. And I have a question for the law enforcement agencies and the government. And when do we learn not only from the ideologists of copying solicitation legislation but also from the total theft of budget funds? A well - known journalist said that it is possible for such a tourist route to be made in Ukraine, dedicated to officials and waste. Some cheap busts are made out of plaster. Here we have in Cherkaschi, where I was born, to make a helipad for 135 million budget bills. Tulub, along with the government, made such a plaster. De Larine repaired 175 million theaters, including 170 million repairs, there too. Where Richter's "quick help" was buying, there's her bust too. Because we have it. No, no, no, we have a quick, short memory. It's like we didn't have hundreds of billions of dollars stolen, and today we're going to get together and say, well, now we're going to take the law again and we're going to be okay. I read Arseny Petrovich, by the way, I don't know, do you control Alexander Valentinovich? There was a recently purchased lamb that I wanted to buy a kilogram. To give the MPs a chance, 500 dollars apiece. So if we say we're starting a new life, this is the tenth time. First of all, it is necessary to open criminal cases to all the abuses that have occurred. And today, make every use of the budget public and responsible. And to do so in such a way that new officials know that they will be responsible. We will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Hanna Hermann Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u152	Mr. Golovo, may I have a word with you, Mr. Kaltsev, with the National Deputy of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u153	Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this, this is not the draft that was proposed earlier. So this is going to happen, and the government is filing one project. It's where the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and other parliamentary working bodies draw their conclusions. And then there's a very different edition at the Plenary. An editorial that contained a supposed observation by the Committee on Economic Policy. I'm sure even some of the members of our committee are not fully familiar with what kind of comments they're proposing to the text of the project. Now it's about the bill itself. I'm just paying attention to one thing in the bill itself. No auction at all. But in the editorial that we're voting for right now, they are. And it's not just there, they define even the only operator of the corresponding electronic site. It must be the Savings Bank of Ukraine. That is, the bill clearly prescribes the monopoly of one subject. How do you feel about this standard being answered by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption? And the law enforcement agencies, how society reacts to it. Dear colleagues, this is just one example. I think such manipulations with normative acts are unacceptable. That's why we, the faction of the regions, will not vote in favour of this bill. And such voting by a majority of the VPs will be the first signs of collective corruption and perhaps even today criminal authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u155	Please, please, let us all hear the speeches and let the Prime Minister comment on this position. Please, People's Deputies Pinzenic of the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. In two years of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are considering for the first time a law that can seriously strike corruption, abuse, manipulation, etc. We've come to such a level of abuse by government purchases that they don't want to talk to us anymore. We're told what it's like to be helped if you're in trouble. And the reasons for this happen are very clear to you. Opaque schemes allowing you to select the right performer to unhook, discounts, abuse. This is a phenomenon that has covered millions of purchases of both government and local budgets, as well as government budgets. No matter who advises us to solve this problem, it's our own business and we have to do it, it's our responsibility. I'm a little bit surprised to hear that this law, which is related to corruption, is that the real law was a clondayk for those who built different kinds of schemes. Regrettably, some of Ukraine’s national deputies were involved in this clondayka. Our sacred duty today is to close the scheme. Is there room for improvement in this law? Yes. I've read this law and there's a lot of things a bullro could do better. But I turned to my colleagues, and today we are obliged to take the first decisive step that this law takes. And I would like us to listen to the position of the government. And even in that case, if the government insists on minimizing the number of rights that the Economic Policy Committee made yesterday, we have listened to the position of the government. We will be able to clarify this law after its adoption. So our proposal and the position of the strike faction to support this law is based on it as a whole. Close it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u157	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u158	I call on all members of the people by real voting to apply to the closure of one of the largest abuses in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u159	Thank you. Leonov, National MP, Freedom faction. The national MP, Kyde, is acting in his place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I'm going to talk about specific problems that might arise if we don't take some points into account in this law. So we're reminded of how much we're in pain for sport, we're in pain for physical development, first of all, our children. But the specificity of physical culture and sport makes it impossible to achieve a long-term public procurement process according to the established order. In fact, this specification today requires consideration of various factors that have a significant impact on achieving sufficient levels of physical training for athletes and are expected to deliver the highest sporting results. Including possible changes in places and periods of sporting action, the inability to predict injuries to athletes, which makes it impossible for them to take part in the following actions, and requires a replacement of training, and so on. All these factors cannot be predicted at the beginning of the current year when the single calendar plan and the corresponding purchase plan are formed and approved. In addition, the international sports federations determine the location, date and time of the start of sports competitions, which in fact makes it necessary to resolve the issue of not selecting airlines that operate in the airline market of Ukraine, but of choosing the most favourable date and time of take-off, as well as the convenience of the route to maintain the functional readiness of the athlete to compete, the number of transfers, the possibility of recovery after flight. A similar situation arises when it comes to the issue of the acquisition of services for the carriage of Ukrainian collective teams. With regard to rental services for non-residential buildings located in state and municipal property, I inform you that most state enterprises, institutions, and organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u161	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u162	in the area of physical culture and sports management, as well as most of the children's sports schools in 1639, which in 1639 in Ukraine, the higher school of sports, 32 generally do not have their own facilities and are rented. The absence of administrative facilities will result in annual bidding for renting such premises for the purpose of further activity. And the lack of rhythmic funding at the beginning of the year makes this procedure impossible. So what we're proposing. We propose to supplement article 2, paragraph 3, this is the article "The Scope of Application of the Law," and we propose the following two paragraphs, to which the law does not apply. "The rental services of non-residential premises, which are located in state and municipal property, for the installation of budgetary institutions." And 2 points: "Airports, Automobiles, Food, Housing, Sports Facilities, Special Equipment and Facilities for Training Meetings, Sports Competitions and Measures of All-U.S. and International Levels, Medical and Pharmaceutical Products for Ukrainian Team Teams." I'm asking everyone to support all the factions, including the largest interfractional association for Olympic Sports and Movement. And that's why I think that when we take these two paragraphs into account, we are going to vote unanimously in favour of this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, now is the time for the 14th hour, in accordance with the Rules, I continue to meet with Parliament. We have to finish this question and we have to consider 4645 to have the Prime Minister present. Please, Your Honor, from the faction, Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich. And the Prime Minister is speaking, my friends, under the Rules, let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u164	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the issue of public procurement is constantly before the authorities and is constantly being raised by the Ukrainian people. Every national MP elected in the district knows and hears about auctions and school food purchases. Everyone knows how to conduct auctions and purchase medical equipment for district and district hospitals. And we've heard on numerous occasions that it's because of public procurement that it's money that comes out of the government budget. And that's what these untransparent possibilities are for the unwholesome officials. The Sovereign European Ukraine insists that we adopt this law today. There must be a lot of imperfections in it. But this will be the first step when the higher legislature and the authorities break this vicious circle. When we show the Ukrainian people that Ukraine is moving towards Europe, that we are willing to make transparent auctions and thus save billions of public funds, taxpayers' costs. But our faction insists that in the End Positions it be recorded that the government, together with the Supreme Council, has been preparing the law for two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u165	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u166	have prepared an e-commerce law for reverse auctions. It's necessary. This will allow small businesses and private entrepreneurs to participate transparently in auctions that will cost less for any goods, products that will be delivered to our establishments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask Arsena Petrovich to comment on the comments here, especially from the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u168	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, honourable members of Parliament! First of all, I wanted to turn to the faction of the Party of Regions, if there are speeches by the country's distinguished national deputies, who represent the will of the people of Ukraine and are elected to Parliament, there is a request to read the documents that you refer to. There's not a word in the government's draft and the bill that's currently under consideration about electronic commerce or the government bank monopoly or the monopoly of any other commercial enterprise. So I hope that your statement that you're not ready to vote for the bill is not taken from the point of view that the Party of Regions wants to leave an old bill, half of which has 300 billion in its pockets. And I'm convinced that the Party of Regions will support a transparent, competitive and honest process of public procurement. With regard to the rights that apply, the honourable Alexander Valentinovich, they are hard to hear. So our proposal is this. Technically, work on the rights that apply exclusively to special goods and services: passports, understood; services to the National Bank, understood? The services purchased by banks solely for the performance of their primary function under the Banking and Banking Act are clear. And technically, we can support that. As far as electronic commerce and everything else is concerned, there is a request to move it, not even to include it in the body of the bill. We're going to have to work on winters and additions, including on other issues that need to be complemented. We vote this bill, there is nothing perfect in the world, we will improve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u169	Arsen Petrovich. I think that the faction manager's proposal to give a mandate in Transitional Positions to work out the electronic payment system is valid and it doesn't change the content of the law, and in fact, the government, along with the deputies, can do so. Dear colleagues, have you all spoken? After sports, I would also ask that this is also a specific product, like Nazbank, that we also take into account the proposals that we talked about. Dear colleagues, taking into account the Prime Minister's suggestions. I ask all deputies to take their seats. This is a very important question. So we don't say the button didn't work. This is the issue of combating total corruption, the biggest corruption in Ukraine, is government procurement. Hence, respectable colleagues were unable to buy beef, beef, or other items at high prices, so that they could not absorb the budget because of the appearance of government purchases. So, your honors, I'm asking you to take your seats and support the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Well, well, Valery Mikhailovich, please have a word. Well, let's not lose the vote. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u170	Thank you so much! Thank you very much, Alexander Valentinovich, but I'm not taking down the vote. I think that the enterprises of disabled people's social organizations are the enterprises of disabled people. I ask you, the government of Azarov has removed the preferential amendment, 15 percent, for enterprises of the social organizations of the disabled. Copy that. He took down Azar, and now she's gone again. I ask you to return what was happening with the government of Timoshenko and other governments that saw the problems of disabled workers. Please support the preferential amendment for enterprises of disabled people's organizations. Ready to edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! I heard the offer. Dear colleagues, I'm looking at the government. There'll be suggestions. This isn't the last edition. We can make changes to the law. But now, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Colleagues, come on. Well, I can see the hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, come on, we're breaking the vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I told you in sports. I said, given the suggestions made by the Prime Minister. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down now and demonstrate your citizenship and our desire to fight corruption. Please vote on the basis and, in general, the bill, taking into account the amendments that have been made. 4587. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis and in general, I said. [[14:05:11]] For 222 Dear colleagues, please, let's go to the factions, please. Region Party 1, position understood in the fight against corruption, Parenthood 70, Impact 25, Economic Development 30, Sovereign European Ukraine 32, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 31. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. Valeriy Mihajlovich, let's not interrupt the decision-making process. Please, I ask how the Prime Minister will comment on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u172	Dear Valérie Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, there are no perfect laws. There are laws that need to be constantly improved. If we now begin to include changes to this law, it is better not to accept it. So now everyone is going to lobby a hole in the bill. So, with all due respect to all members of Parliament, dear friends, adopted the law, then, the working group again, worked together, made changes. And that's how we're going to settle all the issues that have been raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u173	So, dear colleagues, I'm very much asking you to drop your hands, because now everyone will be. I'm going to start giving one word -- 20 hands will be, and everyone's going to do the law right now. The government is responsible for fighting corruption and we must support it here. Our correction, please, changes to the law will be made. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and vote back on this issue. Please, Your Honor, return to this question. Colleagues, I see there's a discussion going on in the hall instead of sitting and voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I see we're not going to get a vote right now, because the MPs are very actively discussing this issue. Please give the committee head a profile word so that we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u174	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, I would like to hear carefully once again what I have said from the rostrum. I said that we would like to support the proposed editorial with comments received on the committee. And in the End Positions, we made a commitment: in two months, to draft a bill of amendments taking into account all these wishes, especially Mr. Suškević, Mr. Schwajka. Very important questions, Mr. Head: transport services for athletes, for the operation of sports facilities, and special equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u175	I'm not Schweik. I'm Kyda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u176	Kayda, I'm sorry. Mr. Head, put it back up again because some national MPs didn't have a card. The card did not work, put it back on the basis of the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, in order for me to lay the groundwork and in general, I ask you to return to this matter of the Supreme Council. Please vote back to this law, please vote. [[14:08:50]] For 229 Decision taken. At the border, dear colleagues. I ask now to vote for the basis as a whole. Please vote. I ask for a basis and a general vote on this law, on the basis and in general. [[14:09:12]] For 226 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 73, Impact is 31, Economic Development is 28, Sovereign European Ukraine is 31, Freedom is 33, Company is 0, non-fractional is 30. Dear colleagues, I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the Prime Minister's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, please also allow me to make one more request. At this point, there are about 150 cars with drugs and unscathed medical devices on duty. We are not confused by the fact that we must now make a decision and agree on the rules of the Customs Code. And reduce from 20 percent of VAT to medicine by 7 percent. So, Alexander Valentinovich, there is a request that members of Parliament now consider a bill that will allow for the reduction of VAT from 20 percent to 7 percent and the dispersion of medicines and medical products that have been copied on customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down. There's an offer, really, to unlock the problem now. Hundreds of cars stand on customs with drugs. In order to spend the cost of drugs, colleagues, there is a request to support this project. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's take our seats. This is a request from the government. I think it's the request of all our voters. The drugs need to be spent, it's normal, it's humane, whether it's power or opposition. I beg of you, fellows of honor! We can put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We discussed this issue when we included it in the order of the day. It was discussed in detail. Please. I'm calling the strike faction. Shall we vote? Please, a line. This is No.4645.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the strike faction is ready to vote in favour of this bill if one rule is excluded: Excise car collection from 0.8 to 2.3. And you don't have to speculate, you don't have to pretend that you're hiding with drugs. If you include this norm, then the "hit" faction will vote for the drugs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, let's make a decision, this proposal is supported. The government is supported. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No.4645 law. Dear colleagues! I see a hand. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Valérie Paccan's offer is supported by the government. I don't deny this norm. Please take your seats and make your decision. Please, I can see the head of the profile committee. Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u182	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We're meeting a committee for the third hour. On the committee, we have to write some technical stuff. And including writing down the questions that we agreed with you on the Conciliation Council. Including on dividends, and on deposits, write these things right. So I'm going to ask you to put this up for 16 hours and vote in general, taking into account the positions we've been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u183	Dear Head of the Committee, dear colleagues, come on, I know at 16 o'clock we won't have the number of deputies necessary for the adoption of the law. You know that, too. There was a proposal to continue the dividend tax rate by January 1st. When we take this rule into account, can we pass the law? Dear colleagues, may we? We can. I'm asking you now, I ask you to support, your honor, with the suggestions that Valérie Paccan has made, and with the suggestions that I've made, taking into account the position of the profile committee. Give Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich a word. This is Law 4645, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I propose to support this bill, to resolve the problems that there are. And don't push into this law the standards that apply to dividends. We don't have the right when in such a difficult situation, some people don't have the benefit of paying dividends. We can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u185	Please turn on the prime minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u186	I'm addressing the committee manager, Mr. Hometician Vitaly Yuriovich. Vitali Juryovich, here's the next offer to you. We will not today pass 4647 and other laws under the Customs Code. You know what I mean? I mean, that means that if we were to now adopt this bill in order to exclude excise duty on a car, we stopped the standard until 1 July 2014. And by July 1, 2014, you and I would have worked out the final draft of the passive income tax bill. So here's the proposition: let's take this step, because I'll tell you, you're going to have an important influence on government. If we don't go to a meeting on this issue, you won't vote for the amendments to the Mine Code. Is that logical? That's logical. So let's, we suggest you vote for this bill as it is, except for the standard that the strike party said during. By July 1st, you and I are going to work together on a model of passive income taxation, and so we're not going to cut the budget, and we're going to find a common solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, may I put it to the vote? We can. Let's try it. I see your hand again, Vitaly Hometic. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u188	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we surely agree because these things need to be corrected. But don't let us do it now so that we can correct what we are about to vote. As was the case with the anti-crisis law. So there's a proposal: we're voting in the first reading and in two hours we're voting in general at 16 for this law. In two hours, nothing will change in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u189	Arsenius Petrovich, may we?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u190	I strongly support, but there's only one thing that doesn't go through Parliament in two hours. Because they're on customs, they're demanding 20 percent, so, Vitaly Yuriovich, there's no good decisions here, it's bad and it's very bad. I realize that some part of me doesn't want to pay taxes on the rich. It does. But let's do this by 1 July and make the right decision on 1 July. We're still suspending him, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I ask the distinguished National MPs to calm down, to sit in their jobs. It's a very important question, it's about millions of our citizens, it's about reducing the cost of drugs. This applies to many other regulatory processes that need to be implemented in order for the system to work, and tax administration, etc. So, dear colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm putting you to a vote and I'm asking you to support everyone. Please vote 4645 on the basis and in general. Please vote. I'm asking you to take your seats, your respectable colleagues, run, because you won't be able to push the button. [[14:17:47]] For 204 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0.71 – Fatherland, 30 – Impact, 7 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 33 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, I will now give you my word of reasons, again the insults will go one way, the other way, in order not to accept anything at all. So please, no offense, let's do this now. Dear colleagues, please, let's do the first reading version of what we've been offering at 16 o'clock. Arsenius Petrovich, well, I don't see a chance to accept it right now. I can do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u192	I can turn to you for the third time. We suggest that we postpone for two months the issue of taxation of rich people in order to settle the final rate. Now we're being asked to cancel the tax on rich people at all. Well, we can't agree to that as a government. We cannot and will not accept it. We're ready to settle administrative and betting issues. We are ready to change the administration and tax administration within two months. We are ready to delay the entry of this item for two months. And we're going to the right faction. Vote, vote for the bill, and we will make joint changes within two months.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-10-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, may I put the vote again? I can. I'm asking you, dear fellows, let's try this again, so this is a responsibility to people, let's show patriotism and morality. So let's go back to that question. Thank you for your help. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to Law 4645. Please be supportive. [[14:20:11]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I see the only option. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 73 – Fatherland, 32 – Impact, 19 – Economic Development, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 33 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 35. Dear colleagues, did not new voters come forward to vote? Is it? Fellows, I say again, let's not compromise ourselves. Please, colleagues, please, let's take our seats. Let's back up, guys. Our citizens need to be supported. There are furs on the border with drugs that cannot travel to Ukraine because they need to be reduced to make them cheaper, colleagues. I'm asking you, let's not trade. Let's make this decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please. We don't have four votes. I'm addressing all factions, first of all coalitions, I'm addressing opposition. Dear colleagues, let us move forward, and then we will adjust the laws that we adopt. Well, we have to do it now. Please, Your Honor, return to this question. There will be no return, so we will continue to work on this process at 4 o’clock. Please, Your Honor, re-mobilize, exhale, and vote with dignity. Please support the proposal to return to Law 4645. Please vote. Press harder, please. [[14:21:58]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, break until 4:00. Let's go back to that question after four o'clock, after the break.
