ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to sit down and get ready to register. While colleagues are preparing for registration, I would like, traditionally, to welcome Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich, who is celebrating his birthday today. [[Applause]] Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:08:33]] There were 314 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is starting its work. Dear colleagues, we have a tradition of speaking out to the leaders of MP groups and factions. But right now I got a statement from the Party of Regions, which was also signed by the Communist Party, to announce the application, they're asking for a break. I understand we're going to have factions now. Are you insisting on a break? Please make a statement without interruption so that we do not waste our time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished listeners and TV viewers! Dear citizens of Ukraine and everyone who hears and sees us now! Many accusations were made regarding the Party of Regions that we were not holding a convention, that we did not want to hold presidential elections, and so forth. We had our meeting at the same time, one day, together with the strike party, I want to remind you. At the same time, a meeting was held on the nomination of candidates for the Presidents and Freedom Party and Fatherland. All charges were in vain. A party of regions, understanding responsibility for what was happening in the country, supported Michael Markovich Dobkin’s candidacy. What happened yesterday? We've heard a lot of statements about the democraticity of the new power, transparency and so forth. Yesterday, a presidential candidate from the Party of Regions was not allowed on the air to whom he was invited by Andrew Kulikov on ICTV for Freedom of Speech. He was brutally, brutally humiliated. And today we demand that the authorities ensure a transparent real electoral process. We saw how a bunch of people didn't let a presidential candidate do a TV show last night. I'm not going to say what happened to him right now, but the very fact that he wasn't admitted to the program is evidence that democracy in Ukraine doesn't exist and is at risk. Another incident took place with another presidential candidate, Oleg Králový. Regardless of whether he's not a member of the Party of the Regions, according to the ruling of the Party of the Regions, we demand responsibility for those who attacked him yesterday after his withdrawal from the appropriate ICT program, physically harmed him. And today I want to remind you that it's not just the Ukrainian people's deputies, that they're Ukrainian citizens who are registered as presidential candidates. In these circumstances, we highly doubt that the authorities are capable of providing a transparent democratic electoral process. We demand that you investigate, punish the guilty and ensure that you are able to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. And a few words I have to say. First, with regard to the statement made by the Party of the Regions, I am certainly addressing all citizens. Blocking any candidate from the Presidents is a violation of electoral legislation. And regardless of sympathy, antipathy, we have to make honest, transparent choices. Elections that are recognized not only by the Ukrainian people but that are recognized throughout the world. And that's why I urge all Ukrainian citizens not to interfere with the statements of any presidential candidate. At the same time, I am addressing candidates to the Presidents, and I ask not to violate the law of Ukraine, not to distribute provocative and separatist speeches, not to injure society and work exclusively within the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have to say that yesterday, you know, there were calls to go to Parliament and there were attempts to block the Supreme Council, which happened at night and night, attempts to attack the Supreme Council. Not too bad, you know, some of the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for whom their own complexes and ambitions are a game of huge problems and great danger that is around Ukraine, is part of the electoral campaign. I want to say, fellow believers are certainly very serious not only problems but also serious dangers. But what we have in both the media and in some, say, political organizations, and in society, let us speak honestly, today there are hysterical sentiments, it does not help to strengthen our country, it does not help to overcome the terrible problems and the terrible threats facing our nation today. I would like, colleagues, to comment on the call for decisive action that is being made very loud in society today. Yes, the actions of the authorities must be decisive, but the actions of the authorities must be balanced and responsible. The Russian Federation's plans were and remain brutal, they want not only Donbas to burn, they're working on burning all the South and East of Ukraine, from Kharkivsk to Odessk. And the fact that most of these regions today leave stability is an example of the position of support of our state and statehood that is, including the merit of power, and many of the people's deputies here who are working on it. I mean, your honor, we have an absolute grave danger today that threatens Donbas. But in addition to Russian special forces, there are hundreds of thousands of Russian citizens who have been fooled by Russian propaganda, and there are hundreds of thousands of innocent Ukrainians with them. And that's why all anti-terrorist measures are being carried out, and I emphasize that we need to be balanced and responsible. And the purpose of these measures is, I emphasize, to protect people. I want to inform you that an anti-terror operation has begun in the north of the Donetsk region this morning. But it will be carried out in stages, responsibly, and balanced. The aim of these actions, I reiterate, is to protect Ukrainian citizens, stop terror, stop crime, stop attempts to tear our country apart. I turn to those who want to show heroism. Please, we are currently updating the militia units, including, in Eastern Ukraine, please go to the police, go to the National Guard. You want to protect Ukraine, go as volunteers to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And beating up windows in the Supreme Council is not heroism, it's a crime against its own state. [[Applause]] And I also want to say, fellow dignitaries, you can replace everyone: both the Supreme Council's leadership, and the Cabinet of Ministers, but there's not going to be an increase in resources in the country, so in a country that has a completely ruined economy, there's not going to be any increase in money. Today it is necessary to consolidate the whole country, and today it is necessary to end the hysteria, the unity, confidence and coordination that is needed today. I'm sure, your honors, calmly, surely we'll bring the system together in our country, we'll win. Glory to Ukraine! I ask you to speak with representatives of MPs and factions. I give the floor to the people's representative of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Group authorized to declare. First. Protecting the territorial integrity of the State is the responsibility of every Ukrainian citizen regardless of party ownership, material assets and residence. The other one. The terms of any election are the exclusive competence of our Parliament. It's legitimate. And that's what the Ukrainian people gave him. Third. Only the Ukrainian people will determine how to be a state according to their territorial arrangement. And if a referendum is held on this issue, there is no doubt that most Ukrainian citizens will vote in favour of increasing the financial autonomy of the regions, expanding the authority of local self-government within a whole single state. Four. The Supreme Council adopted an entire package of unpopular laws, coming out of a very difficult economic situation. However, we do not feel that the government is developing systemic and urgent measures to restore business activity. We ask in strict terms to put the Law 2436 into effect, which has been revoked by about a hundred different permits, certificates, regulatory procedures. They have been and are the source of mad corruption. The budget provides 25 billion dollars under state government guarantees for priority programmes. It is time to delay loading our basic businesses in view of the loss of markets in the East. Here comes the devaluation of bracelets, and the price cuts keep growing. This has a direct bearing on the capacity and confidence of people tomorrow. The government must provide a clear explanation of what the state will do in the event of a fall of the bracelet. Parliament is faced with a very important task: to adopt several bills to ensure the real rule of law. Among the priorities is to adopt a new Law on Public Prosecutions. When our nation joined the Council of Europe, Ukraine committed itself to bringing the prosecution to European standards. The new legislation on the prosecution has to turn this state institution into a public prosecutorial authority. Once and for all, the prosecution’s harmful practices should be abandoned when it itself exposes the violation of the laws, conducts such investigations, supervises the investigation, and at the same time supports the state’s charges in court. The following units would be appropriate to allocate them from the Public Prosecutor's Office and to transfer them to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and BSS, thus ensuring external control over the quality of the pretrial investigation. And with regard to providing legal aid to unprotected population groups, this could be done entirely by local authorities, local justice authorities, and not by an investigative body, which is now the prosecutor’s office. In the Office of the Prosecutor, some 25,000 people work for official statistics, and in Ukraine, 12,000 employees are enough. The D.A. needs to be updated both organizational and human, but in a witch-like fashion, and only on legal grounds. And the last. A member of our Kuzmuk group, Alexander Ivanovich, has very important information. Alexander Valentinovich, please give him one minute to reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u5	Please, one minute for the line. It's the time of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues. We have made a decision with you in this room and voted in favour of the creation of the National Guard of Ukraine, which continues to form today. But I want to prove to you that the National Guard of Ukraine has created a situation that is unacceptable. To date, the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine has not been appointed to perform duties with no intercessors. Do you understand the situation of our nation today?Oh, my God! The Committee on Defence and Security, the MP's Economic Development Group, supported General Poltorak's name and candidature. Well, he cannot command a responsibilities that were not approved by the Supreme Council! How will his commands be carried out by his subjects? Sir, I ask you and ask you to agree with the factions today and to present the nomination of Poltorak as commander of the National Guard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, given the extraordinary situation that has arisen in a number of areas, namely, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkivsky, I propose that we start our work with three things. First. These are two draft decrees prepared by a group of people's deputies regarding the commission of our group to negotiate the 17th in a quadrilateral meeting, where we should clearly set the limits that we entrust to official officials to conduct these negotiations in the context of the situation in Ukraine. The other one. This is our colleague’s draft regulation 4519d, which deals with direct financing of the army in response to the threat posed by the Russian Federation. Third. This is a draft law that has just been drafted, 4698 on the holding of elections in a state of emergency. Why is this such a necessary thing? Because we don't rule out that today, given the situation where the special divisions of the Russian Federation are being directly operated by the Russian Federation, we may need to go to a special division of the Russian Federation or an extraordinary or military state in certain areas. Because today the President's Election Act does not allow the President's election to take place under such conditions, and the President's election situation is extraordinary, because for today there is only the sole responsibility of the head of state, which does not have all the functions defined by the Constitution. The proposal made by Andrija Kožemiakin in draft Law 4698 should be made under such conditions. This is an opportunity to react quickly, depending on how events will develop in the same Donetsk or Luhansk region. Secondly, we need to set a clear limit on the responsibility of the aggressor. I think this line's already crossed. And when a year ago a prominent television conductor of Kiselov on Russian channels reported that Putin's task of creating special diversified groups for fighting, for seizing administrative facilities, for the destruction of the leaders of non-communal Russia, for attacking civilian objects, for taking up arms, I think that this moment actually began to take place in Ukraine right after Putin's commission. And what is happening today in the entire series of Ukrainian cities in the east, where military objects, weapons, are directly captured, and this is done by the members of the Party of the Regions! What are the provocateurs and military units of the Russian Federation that, along with the automatics, enter the premises of the militia, the BSS and the authorities, I have a question: aren't the mayors of the Party of Regions sitting in these premises? Aren't the MPs from the Party of Regions sitting in these rooms? Then what do you admire? So we need to now adopt these three necessary things that will allow us to react very quickly to events in the country. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u9	Balicki National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u10	Deputy Balitsky, Melitopol, Melitopol district. Please pass the word to Kaltsev Sergey Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u11	Please, the Kaltsev People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Sergey Kaltsev, 75 constituency, Zaporozhye, Leninsky and Zadov. Dear colleagues, the situation in South-East Ukraine today is shaping the agenda of the country as a whole. In this regard, the electoral battalions for the post of President of Ukraine have come to the fore. It is not only the outcome of the presidential elections but the integrity of our State that will determine how dialogue with the people of the South-East will be structured. I'm not talking about separatists and paid provocateurs right now. It's all clear with them. The dialogue is open to regular guards, melitopals, denim propellers, harrkovcans, donchani, lugancans. For many of them, exacerbating the situation in the South-East is not an action, but an action. Because if people are called slaves for a long time, Spartacus will be among them. Thousands of ordinary Ukrainian citizens are taking part in protests, and they are sympathetic to millions. Do a good sociological study in the South-East, and you will find that 65 per cent of the population in the Maidan province of Zaporozhye and the new authorities do not support it in any way. To ensure that there is no doubt about this data, I would strongly recommend that the ruling summit communicate with the South-Easters face-to-face rather than at the meetings of its supporters or meetings with the Parthosat. And then you'll realize that your perception of the South-East is not intersecting with reality. I represent the Zaporozhye Group. In the region after Maidan, we did not have the seizure of buildings by pro-Russian activists. Anti-Maidan men did not fight street fights. At the same time, self-defence fighters of Maidan and the Right Sector are permanently based in the district council building. In the last resurrection, a traditional rally was held in Zaporozhye under Lenin’s memorial. Every week, it is attended by opposers of the current authority. Among them are many women, young people, and older people of different political backgrounds. Yeah, there's people and tricolours. But they're an overwhelming minority. In the Verbal Resurrection, they were all attacked on the Hall of Fame by right-sector fighters and radical supporters of Maidan. While waiting for about 100 people to remain on the anti-Majdan and to be safely attacked by ten men, they surrounded unarmed people for five hours and dumped them with comas of land, heavy objects, eggs, and everything that would come up. Together with the self-defence representatives of Maidan, we were able to bring women and adolescents to safety. In addition, every 15 minutes people were taken out with their heads pierced. Unfortunately, the police did not fully ensure human security. According to the law enforcement authorities, some 48 people were injured, the vast majority of whom were anti-Majdan. In the end, despite the severe opposition, we were able to agree with the representatives of the Self-Defense and the Right Sector and under their protection, together with the police, to remove people from the ring of other radical citizens. The hostages, together with the people of the south-east of Ukraine, are yet to observe the situation in the country and make unfavorable conclusions for the new authority. These findings are supported every day by rapidly falling economies and failed social policies. Many security companies today have to move on to a three-to-four-day schedule of work, increasing so-called hidden unemployment. The Euro-Integration processes, which are not taking into account the South-East industrial enterprises, have jeopardized the entire Zaporozhye area engine complex for 65 per cent of exports to CIS countries. It's about economic giants like MotorSitch, Zaporozhye transformer factory, Zaporozhye autostorial plant. Recently, ex-President Janukovic stopped on the subway from signing the Association Agreement with the EU when he understood the consequences of the South-East Ukrainian industrial sector. This was one of the reasons for Euromaydan. Today, the new power has also stopped before the signing of the economic part of the Association Agreement. A recent announcement was made from the Euromaydan scene about the need for such a step, and now they are doing the same as Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u14	We all understand that most of yesterday's opposition has always been aware of the extent to which the signing of the Treaty of Association with the EU in such a way will harm them. But it was a convenient reason for cynical manipulation of people. Taking advantage of people's hope for a better future for personal purposes is not the tip of cynicism. Today, the new power has frozen the largest infrastructure project in Zaporozhye, through Dnepr. In the eyes of the entire city, a huge construction site, recently revived from morning to night, was abandoned at the final stage. Salaries, savings, bank deposits have been immediately depreciated by more than 40 per cent as a result of the fall in the rate of the bracelet. The sense of economic decline adds to the news of the cuts in social benefits, the rise in public service tariffs, public transport travel, the dramatic, in a literal sense, shock of poverty, the spread of crime, military rhetoric on TV channels and the regular appearance of radicals -- people are associated with the revolutionary events that have taken place in the country. The hopes for a peaceful and democratic Ukraine are growing rapidly. So maybe the rise in protest in the south-eastern areas isn't just because of the separatist sentiments? If people do not trust the central economic, social and cultural policies, let us not add to the problems, but let us address them with a policy of wisdom and compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u15	I'm asking you, Your Honor, to take the order. Well, one minute was added. Half a minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u16	The laws of local referendums should be adopted and people should be allowed to speak on issues of concern to them. Just don't have to manipulate people again by narrowing down the subject of the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I beg you, let us respect the hall. I understand the big report. We can give you an extra minute, I always do. Well, let's have two rules, let someone give you a chance to speak. Let's be respectful, but a lot of MPs want to come out today, too. It's Tuesday. Please, National Deputy Donny, Sovereign European Ukraine. He's giving Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u18	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, Ukraine is experiencing or is not the most dramatic moment in its history, in fact, the threat of Ukraine's other ruins is real throughout its history. But the question is, what are we contrasting with this? Declarations, last warnings, curses, and decisive intentions. There are no meaningful practical and holistic actions. In particular, from the media, and by the way, we've got a lot of checkers struggling with who gets to the information networks first, and it's like they're sitting on information networks instead of working. So we're getting information about a decisive large-scale anti-terror operation. By the way, I'll tell you, honourable national MPs, that the National Security and Defence Committee is entirely removed from these issues. This is about our concerted and concerted actions. We have a steady impression that we are doing everything we can to avoid doing the right work. Because we survive all the time, we talk about what plans the Russian Federation has. Where are our plans? So it's pretty obvious, your honorary colleagues, your head, we need to review our work plan right now, because if you judge from the schedule to the agenda, nothing happens in the country. That's the first one. The other one. We need to hold meetings of the Supreme Council to discuss the situation, to hear a report from the security and defence sector and to make comprehensive decisions. Third. We would obviously have to adopt a constitutional law in the President's election to determine the principles that will be laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and provide answers to all the questions that concern society. In particular, the question of the organization of life on the ground, the question of language status, the place of Ukraine in the global security system. It may be possible to make a decision, to enlist the support of the world partnership for the internationally recognized neutral status of Ukraine and to grant the Budapest Memorandum the status of a legal, guaranteed and binding instrument. And so answer all the questions that are being asked by Ukrainian society. I am convinced that we need to create an appropriate group that will immediately work out the appropriate decision and adopt this law, which would have constitutional status and would be the basis for changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. And this should be a guide for the Constitutional Commission. It was supposed to be a guide for the Ukrainian delegation to negotiate 17 numbers. Ukraine has to have a Ukrainian package to show that we have a whole, agreed position that we are the only ones. The constitutional order in Ukraine needs to be established, but it needs to be brought everywhere. And I'm sure they won't point their finger at Kiev in the East. So the suggestion is that, after the National Deputies have finished speaking, we gather the faction leaders, discuss the issues that we need to consider, and first listen to the report of the security and defence sector leaders, and get to a clear general position. Everything else is a conversation that is not in favour of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, security and defence sector leaders are involved in security and defence. So immediately distracting them from these important questions, I think it's inappropriate now. I can, when the Supreme Council does not object, invite them on Wednesday morning so that we can listen to these leaders after the national MPs speak. No objections? There's no objection. Please, People's Deputy Kurena, I understand. He's giving the word to the head of the Faction "KILL" of Vitalia Klitschko. Please, Mr. Vitalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Now is a very important time for the people of Ukraine to ask each of us. And for those actions, for both idleness and for trying to use foreign aggression for treasonous trades. Now is the time of unity and the time of decisive action. An anti-terrorism operation is a test of power. All forces must be used, and especially the Armed Forces of Ukraine, if necessary. We'll all understand that. We are dealing with an invasion and must protect our nation. Only if we can help ourselves will we be helped. So no excuses and no hypocritical reflections about like "people you haven't heard." Diverstants and the mercenaries involved are not Ukrainian people. Talking to them should be briefer. [[Applause]] That's what people expect from us both in Donbas and in Lugansk and in Kharkiv, people who ask for protection, people who came to Parliament at night, and now they're standing there, demanding mobilization to protect their country. Ukrainian legislation allows for a full-fledged counterterrorism operation involving all forces of the Ukrainian State. If we are to make any changes to laws or to refine ourselves, we must do so today so that there will be no refusal to carry out our duties by every force. Those who do not obey the command must be punished with all severity. Similarly, the responsibility of those who support separatists who speak on the staircases occupied by the advertisers should be borne. No mandate should cover for traitors. I am addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine. The performer is the person who has full authority, please do it in the end. We need to remove the intrusiveness and bring responsibility to those who betray their people, even if they call themselves national deputies. The first candidate is the Kings. He already went to the Henprocurator's office last night. Question: Is it a criminal case for keeping an arsenal of unregistered weapons in his car? Will he continue to go along with separatist calls and go on airs? And the last. I want to speak to Ukrainian law enforcement officers, Ukrainian military officials. I urge you to do your duty professionally, honestly. This is what all Ukrainians expect, and Ukrainians are waiting for stability and peace. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zelik gives the word to the leader of the "Freedom" faction of Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable associations, brothers and sisters are Ukrainians! Today it is quite obvious that task number one for each of us is a resistance to Russian aggression, it is a challenge for every Ukrainian, and the price is our territorial integrity and Ukrainian independence. Our enemy is the Imperial regime of Putin, which has set itself the task of dismembering Ukraine, destroying our territorial integrity and establishing a puppet regime here in Ukraine. Events in eastern Ukraine have demonstrated that these are not peaceful protests. These are the diversans, these are the terrorists who are led by the officers of the special divisions of the Russian Federation and are supported by a bunch of separatists, particularly in the eastern regions of Ukraine. The same group of separatists are actively supported by members from the Party of Regions and Communists, which is totally unacceptable. That is why we believe that in the situation that has now taken place in Ukraine, our actions – the Ukrainian Parliament – should be absolutely decisive. I don't understand why on the Conciliation Council we were discussing, "Freedom" was putting together a whole series of drafts that should be considered today to counter the enemy and they don't exist! The Freedom faction does not believe that this order of the day that is given to us today is the order of the day for Parliament, which today is in a state that is at war with an enemy who is leading a war on survival that is leading a war on national security! That's why we still think and insist that what I talked about on the Conciliation Council yesterday should be held immediately by a closed session of the Ukrainian Parliament. And if it is not possible to invite the first leaders of the force bloc, then their deputies must come and be aware of the state of affairs in the state. And we need to clarify the situation as to how an anti-terror operation will be carried out. And we shouldn't just sit here and look at our pants like that -- no absolute questions! And to act in concrete terms! [[Applause]] Just get up and go and fight the enemy! Because otherwise the Ukrainian Parliament will be ineffective. And the people won't understand. And, God forbid, let's lose the Ukrainian state. Next, we need to find out what the Ministry of Internal Affairs officials are doing, how they're doing, how they're reacting to new people right now, and they're mobilizing them. We need to start a new mobilization phase at the National Guard immediately. Where's the National Guard? Why did we create it? Why did the government allocate 7 billion dollars to the Ukrainian Armed Forces? We want to see concrete actions, concrete steps, we are the Ukrainian Parliament. With the rest, the new mobilization, the new phases of mobilization should be announced today. Next. We understand that the sabotage that took place in the eastern regions of Ukraine could not have taken place without representatives of local authorities, all of whom must be arrested and punished, without representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists, who must be banned today in Ukraine. And those specific MPs who have the facts of their involvement in sabotage, the same Lukyanov, Kings, Koleschenko, Ephraimov -- they all have to be punished under criminal law and even deprived of Ukrainian citizenship for their anti-Ukrainian actions. Finally, we demand an immediate interpretation of the Law. When will the Law on Illustration be passed? Do you think you can save Ukraine without it?Oh, my God! But it's a coup and a coup d'état! When will the Law on the Free Control of Weapons be? Why are we not allowed to arm a people, a peaceful people, who must defend themselves if the authorities are not able to protect themselves? Deputies should be removed from the villains who play the enemy. Specific decisive action — that is what the people require of us today!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u24	Next. I don't understand why the National Security and Defence Council has decided to close the border, where the border is closed.Oh, my God! Where's the Russian border?Oh, my God! I don't understand why the Council of National Security and Defence has decided to shut down the possibility of broadcasting Russian channels here that sow lies in the information field -- why do the Russian channels continue to show?Oh, my God! Society, we must now act decisively! What are the choices now? Yeah, Putin wants to take them. But we will not survive that election, for they have plans to come here, to occupy Kiev, which, by the way, must be protected now and immediately! To all heads of administration, give instructions! Let them prepare the roadblocks, let them raise the people, let them mobilize the people! If the authorities don't do it now, it's a price to pay to the authorities! And we must take on a firm responsibility. An anti-terrorism operation is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u25	Thank you. National MP Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u26	Dear voters, especially those of the older generation! We Communists are well aware that in the minds of each and every one of you today, we are concerned about the familiar words, "If there was no war!" And unfortunately, you and I, politicians, are helping to make this anxiety sound more and more. Unfortunately, we don't calm society down, we oppress and say, not tomorrow, war, war, war. It's not like that. But the political forces are especially intimidated by war to turn away from the main things, from the way we live with you and from the things that are being created in our country, in our country. I think that maybe each of us, if we put our hands on our hearts and give an honest answer to the questions that I'm about to ask, will answer correctly. Let's answer that this is better, civil war, or the idea of tens of millions of our fellow citizens. What better way is to hear a variety of language and speech or hear guns and machine guns? What is better than a state of emergency or a popular referendum? I think it's rhetorical. It is clear to everyone that I will not reveal the great mystery and America if I say that there is a pretty big fight for Ukraine. And today, we walk with our hands stretched out in the world and beg for our alms, and we apologize under political and economic dictatorships. And these loans are all at the expense of who? At the expense of the common people. You and I have been taking only one unpopular action for a quarter of a century. Will the days of popular action ever come? It's not just unpopular, it's not popular fraud. Here is an example that our faction manager quoted yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council. How huge the government has shown that out of 20 percent of VAT is reduced by 7 percent. True, I forgot to say that until today there was no VAT on drugs, and there was no zero rate. Zero bet. And today, from 20 to 7, or 0 to 7. Here's your victory. And almost every citizen is looking for drugs, and it is clear how they end up. I hope that these loans, those promises that the IMF and other international funds promise the people, will be felt in their sorry, leather citizens in May when they receive municipal payments. So finally we're going to be building an economically independent political state in Ukraine, or are we just going to be doing politics? It was interesting to think that even with machine guns, presidential elections could be held. The world has never seen such a thing. Let's be in front of the world. And to the end. The position of our faction remains unchanged – until the fires and thieves are punished, we will not vote. The position of our faction remains unchanged, the Communists remain with the deluded people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, I see one hand under non-fractional, one performance. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u28	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, a respected Ukrainian society! Today, in eastern Ukraine, there is a diversified, spy, military work of our neighboring country, the Russian Federation. Let's call things our names. Today, in eastern Ukraine, there is a war that has been declared by the Russian Federation. Today, in eastern Ukraine, there is the same scenario that the Russian Federation tested in Crimea. That's when we all told you that peace, negotiations, we'll deal with the aggressor. In summary, Ukraine de facto lost Crimea. Today there are similar calls to make with an aggressor. No one deals with an aggressor! The enemy will be destroyed if he does not appear to be. You can imagine at the parade of November 7, 1941, when people went straight to the front of the red square to protect the Soviet Union from waving German flags. They'd be shot. Today, Communists, regions that say they want peace -- you're organizing separatist actions, you're calling Putin's troops here, you're funding separatists and terrorists who are taking over peaceful cities and villages in Ukraine today. I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens in the eastern part of the country: don't wait for the authorities to help you, get up. People good, Ukrainians in the east, in the south, stand up, organize self-defence teams, destroy the enemy, marry an enemy abroad. Only together will the Ukrainian people bring an order in our country. Today is the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, have you called the Party of Regions? Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, mentioned on several occasions, especially in the two Olegs, was mentioned by the Party of the Regions. You know, I understand you need to look for someone to blame. Because it's already a genre crisis. Unfortunately, we have to say that the country’s previous leadership did rob the country. But somehow it's abroad. And we're the members of the factions of the Party of Regions here in this room, and we're doing everything we can to find compromise, dialogue and thus demonstrate unity in this country, even though in this room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today I am absolutely convinced that the performances that unfortunately took place during the faction leaders, the factions, are precisely the destruction of Ukraine's unity. Each one should be responsible in his or her own word. The insults -- they don't have room anymore and they're timeless. We need to look for ways to dialogue today. And what you're demonstrating right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u31	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u32	showing this is not the way to unification but the way to disunity. We have to think about every word we say, every action we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, a few questions. First. As for the statement that came to me from the Freedom faction and the Economic Development faction about the break. I would ask the faction leaders to meet us at 12 o'clock, and I invite all the faction leaders to the House of Parliament and we can discuss all these issues. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, when we talk about handing out arms, the state only gives defeat to those who go to work in the police, who go to serve in Nachwardia, or the Armed Forces. When we open up weapons free, that means that the separatists will get free access. And that means we're pushing the country into a civil war breakthrough. We will not allow civil war, those who answer to the state, the Armed Forces, the militia, please register and go work there, go protect the country. There will be no civil war in Ukraine, dot! Dear colleagues, I ask you, we have an important question, including those that have been highlighted by the national MPs, including I would now like to present a draft decree on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Koleschenka V.V. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Please, I'm asking the first deputy chairman of the Committee of Regulators of Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, invited! The committee at its meeting on 9 April 2014 considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Koleschenka Vadim Vasilovic, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MPs, as of 1 April of this year in part of the composition of the parliamentary powers pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and article 4 of the Law on the Status of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies. And according to part of article 5 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, he decided to bring Ukraine's Supreme Council of People's Deputies to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy. I would also like to inform you that there is no information on the exit from Ukrainian citizenship of National Deputy Kolesnicka, which was announced at the Conciliation Council of Deputies on April 4, 2014. Please support the Project Registration Order 4675. This is an expression of the will of the national deputy Koleschenka in his own personal statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's anything to discuss here. Perhaps Koleschenko has long worked for another country, and it is Parliament's decision that should, I think, be unanimously supported. Please, I thank the committee representative. National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Of course this list is just beginning. There are candidates for the same role. There's a lot of them. I want to remind you of the wonderful wisdom of a man who said, "They come into politics with a beautiful future, and they come out of it with a shameful past." Koleschenko is a unique example of this. How evil this person has brought to Ukraine! That's why he should go to his mother's house! Let's vote unanimously for him to leave parliament and never come back here again!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Decree 4675 of the registration number, on the permanent termination of the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kolesnichenko. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this motion with a vote. [[11:03:39]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, 5 – Party of Regions, 71 – "Father of the Father", Klitka "KAR" – 30, 26 – "Economic Development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – only 19, "Freedom" – 35.0 – Company, 33 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, please, I see people coming in and out of the hall. I'm calling the Secretariat, make an announcement to have the national MPs come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please sit in the hall. Me, too. Dear colleagues, this question is not discussed by procedure. This question is not discussed by procedure. Please, I ask your colleagues to support the draft Decree 4675 on the removal of Koleschenko from the MP's mandate. Please vote. [[11:04:48]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Party of regions - 4. Parenthood – 76, Hit – 34, 30 – Economic Development, European Sovereign Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 35, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 33. Dear colleagues! A draft decree has also been introduced to terminate the mandate of the Vanzuriak people’s deputy, who has fulfilled his duty and made such an application in connection with his appointment to the responsible office. Please draft Decree 4668. Please support the draft decree to terminate the mandate of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Vanzurak as requested. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? We're all clear. [[11:05:46]] For 249 Decision taken. Irina Heratschenko, turn on the microphone. I'll give you my word. I see a hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that during the second vote, my button didn't work well for Mr. Koleschenka. Of course, I support it, not hold it together. And I don't think any of the people who do separatism today have the right to be in this room. We have to ask the question of depriving the son of Yanukovich - Viktor Yanukovich, the son of Azarov, who is now sitting on Rubbleovka. We've been told here that in the Party of Regions you've ruled out all who are separatists. This is not so, and so I ask you to add my voice to those who have supported the disqualification of his powers, and to put to the vote other all co-sponsors as well, and separatists, to the vote that we deprive them of the right to represent the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I have to tell those co-sponsors who have not written a statement, in accordance with the law, I will bring them to court so that, through the court, they will be deprived of their mandates when they do not have the courage to write an application and that we will consider it in the working order. Please, a line. Turn on the microphone of the Shufrich People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u40	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Even in the harshest empire, twice they were not executed or executed. And today, we've executed Vadim Koleschenka twice, by the way, we haven't even returned to the voting procedure after he was deprived of his mandate. Another question that was voted for by each other. We ask, as you asked in your own time, this is your initiative and your principles: Vote for yourself, do not become buttons. We have recorded the appropriate vote, and let this remain on your conscience today. And, of course, today we're asking those applications that have been filed for the approval to be put to the vote. There are several other high-level employers who have written statements, but there is no question of depriving them of their mandate. We demand that this question be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to consider now the inclusion in the agenda of the session of several projects that have been urged by factions or individual national deputies during the Conciliation Council. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult with you. Are we going to vote in a pack or are we going to vote in a separate ballot? Each individual, there's an offer. There aren't many, so I don't deny it. Ladies and gentlemen, traditionally, I call the law, its contents, and we are determined by voting without discussion. Is there no objection? I won't. Because there are important questions ahead that we need to take into account. For inclusion in the agenda, the government project 4629. Draft law amending certain legislation on the regulation of urban activities and on state-architectural building control. Please support, Your Honor, with regard to the inclusion of the draft law in the agenda, 4629 registration number. Please make up your mind. [[11:09:28]] For 271 Decision taken. Next question. Draft Law on Changes to Ukraine’s Land and Forest Codes on Maintaining Protective Zones for Electricity Transmission. Please make up your mind. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:09:58]] For 251 Decision taken. Next project. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons (to increase the minimum pension for members of families of military personnel in case of loss of a breadwinner). That's an up-to-date question. Please, Your Honor, please support 4402. Integrating into the agenda. [[11:10:34]] For 273 Decision taken. Draft Ordinance on the need to use measures to stabilize the national currency exchange rate. The MP's project. Please make up your mind. [[11:11:01]] For-163 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, next question. Project 4662, it's in place. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the characteristics of regulation of electricity relations in areas outside the Optega Market System. Please, Your Honor, support this regulatory law, its registration number 4662. Please make up your mind. [[11:11:55]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm paying attention to you. Please. Now, I'll give you, we'll go through all the questions. Dear colleagues! We have a few more questions that the proposal (now, now, Oleg Valeriyovich) has a few questions that are asked to support the national MPs. In particular, it's 4696, if I'm not mistaken. This question is signed by all the people’s deputies and factions’ leaders. It's a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's statement on the initiative of international negotiations on the de-escalation of the situation around Ukraine. These are negotiations that will take place, stated at any rate, within Ukraine, the United States, the European Union and the Russian Federation. It's been handed over to all the national MPs. I have information. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's put it in the order of the day. And when we vote, we will be sure after the committee and colleagues who receive the material are identified. Why are MPs insisting now, and they signed the heads of virtually all factions to consider. Because the negotiations are said to be in the near future. And, of course, it's actually a directive for these negotiations. Ukraine's clear position on halting the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, halting provocations against Ukraine, etc. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this project, but it was actually introduced by the leaders of most factions. 4696 support, please, Your Honor! Please vote. We're putting it into the agenda, I've explained. [[11:14:12]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The MPs also insist on returning to Law 4608, which refers to the punishment for the placement of flags from other countries on administrative facilities in Ukraine. Project 4608, please support. Please vote. [[11:14:51]] For 214 For some reason, I do not want to support Parliament. "To" is 214. The decision is not taken. Please, Your Honor, show the factions, please. 0 – Regions (they are behind flags that should dominate and disgrace our country). Please, Fatherland is 75. Please turn on more. Impact – 33, 23 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18.35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 30 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I beg you, one more project, and then we can go back to two projects that are not supported, to three. Dear colleagues, 4696 is a project. 4698. Honorable colleagues, 4698, also insist on speaking in the morning. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to guarantee the holding of presidential elections and interim elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a state of emergency and war). Dear colleagues, I hope that we will have no extraordinary or military status during the elections. But the MPs do, and I think we should ensure that the elections are held under any circumstances. And I would like you to support, my fellow Members, these changes, please, before the legislation. Project (4698 registration number) please vote. [[11:16:38]] For-164 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 76 – Fatherland, 10 – Economic Development – 6, 9 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to return to two questions: 4608. I'll give you a chance. Also 4686: the course stability decree. One minute, please, the authors. 4686, National Deputy Rudzkowski. Please have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u42	Honorary colleagues, Supreme Council Decision 4686 proposes that measures be taken to stabilize the exchange rate. If the proposed measures are to oblige all exporters to sell not 50 percent of the proceeds but 100 percent of the proceeds, we will double the currency supply in the currency market. This is the first time. The second question. This is, of course, an attraction to the responsibility of banks, even to the introduction of external administrations, because they are, at the expense of the refinancing costs, going into the currency market and speculating again. I believe that this decision will help the National Bank and, in general, the citizens of Ukraine to feel protected. I ask you again to put this question to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, this is not a matter for discussion. We're just in the middle of the day, we're not discussing this, colleagues. Parliament will now be determined by vote whether or not to include in the agenda. Please put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. This is the last time we put every law that hasn't passed. Please make up your mind. Turn on the glade system, please specify for Project 4686. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. What's the problem? Please. [[11:19:08]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Wait, wait. I'm sorry, I didn't say a word. Now we have a question under the Law, I understand, 4662. Yes or no? No, no, 4662, which isn't included either. It's about energy security. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, Bill 4662 proposes to ensure the adoption of a law that regulates the supply of electricity to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. To be implemented, if we adopt this law, will be to supply power without subsidies, and will be able to pay not only in bracelets, but in other currencies. The local authorities have now shut down the National Bank of Ukraine and cannot be counted in bracelets. So it turns out that we're now squeezing the Russian fleet that's standing in Sevastopol and the Russian military and we don't have the mechanism to get payments. And of course we have to provide a stable energy supply for Ukrainian citizens living in Crimea, but of course without subsidies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u45	Thank you. I'm asking the room to make a decision on this matter. The bill has registration number 4662. Please identify yourself in this room. Turn on the "Council" system to vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:20:54]] For 204 The decision is not taken. By factions, please take a look at the screen. 39 – Regions, Fatherland – 58, 25 – Impact, 0 – Economic Development, 18 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 29. Please, Your Honor, 4608, one minute to the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, I ask you to support Bill 4608 and include it in the agenda. This refers to the amendments to article 110 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which provides for criminal responsibility for the illegal placement of flags of foreign nations on the buildings of state institutions. That's what we're seeing right now in Ukraine, in the east of the country, in the south of the country. When the flags of the state are broken, the Ukrainians stamp, stamp, stamp, bullies, instead of hanging flags of nonexistent republics, state flags of other countries. I believe that there must be responsibility for this, and those who break down the Ukrainian flags and hang foreign flags must understand that it is a crime. Please support and include this bill in the agenda. And I'm addressing the regions you're telling us that you're in charge of keeping this bill in order in the country, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u47	Please activate the "Council" system and identify the national deputies for inclusion in the agenda project number 4608. Please vote. [[11:22:39]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 76, Vitalia Klicka - 30, Economic Development - 24, Sovereign European Ukraine - 20, Freedom - 35, Company - 0, non-fractional - 34. Dear colleagues, I don't understand. Again? Okay. Dear colleagues, they insist that not all have been able to sit in their seats. I ask you, fellow officers, to sit in your seats I see your hand and now let's still give political importance to this law. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the 4608, Your Honor, please vote. Please be supportive. Please, colleagues. [[11:23:42]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The last draft we're going to vote on is the last 4698. On the rostrum, please invite the People's Deputy Kožemiakina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Your opinion today is given in Bill 4698. Dear colleagues, you know that the National Security and Defence Council is today in case aggression, Russian aggression in Ukraine continues and you know what the plans are, and we've heard it from the Department of Defense not only take over these areas, but also Dnipropetrovsk, Hersonsk, Mikolayevsk, Odessk in the same way. So in order to give the opportunity, the ORP instrument and the incumbent duty of the President to introduce military status in any case, if necessary, and this is necessary, or extraordinary, they may do so, and this will not be changed, which will not be able to reverse the presidential election of Ukraine on May 25, as well as the election to the Supreme Council. All of it! This is a bill aimed at protecting Ukraine's national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u49	Thank you! Dear colleagues, I ask you to identify a room for inclusion in the agenda of the 4698 project, now announced by Andrew Cosemiakin. Colleagues, come on, I'm asking you to vote. Please determine by vote, please vote. [[11:25:26]] For-200 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: 0-regions, "Fatherhood"-76-31- "BALL", 18- "Economic development", 11- "North European Ukraine", 35- "Freedom", 0-Company. 29 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: all the questions that have been asked. Turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u50	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council and today I am asking to vote in favour of the introduction of the agenda, the first bill of 4570, for a illustration in Ukraine. Please identify yourself by voting and put into the agenda. Second, the 3530 bill banning Communist ideology in Ukraine. And thirdly, there's an offer that we'll give the Apparatus the task of registering a bill on free possession of weapons. Today, this issue is more pressing than ever, since in the last year’s vocation, a similar bill has already been voted on, it needs to be passed. Take away the agenda to register the current Freedom Bill. These three questions are out of date. Please gather, come from the corridor and determine by a positive vote. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u51	Dear Oleg Jaroslavovich! There's an offer, at 12 o'clock we're gathering faction leaders, and let's talk about these issues. I'll put them to a vote after that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I want to say it again. Colleagues! Once again, I ask you to listen to the proposal: after 12 o'clock, after a discussion among the faction leaders, we will ask this question for consideration. Please, Your Honor, we will now include questions in the agenda and we will not consider those questions. I see again, please don't leave the hall. Now we're going to make decisions about the responsible issues, the important issues for the country. On the contrary, please take your seats. Dear colleagues! We discussed all the questions that were proposed and included in the agenda. From the voice we will no longer include. I ask you, fellow officers, when there is an urgent need, tell the faction leaders, at 12 o'clock we will gather, and then, after the break, we will consider your proposals. Dear colleagues! About the second reading. There's a suggestion that we have a little bit with you, colleagues, MPs come up to me and ask for a draft law on amendments to the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural (rural) heads, which we considered on a simplified procedure, and said Tuesday we would make a decision on this issue. These are two-track elections in cities, over 500,000 voters who have. And the second bill, which is immediately thereafter, 4473-1, on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Is there no objection to us starting work like this? There's no support. Thank you. 1098. I'm asking for the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u52	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, at the request of the Supreme Council of the Committee on State Building, the local self-government has offered you an appropriate comparative table for amending the second reading of the Act amending the Law on the Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads (number 1098) by our colleague Mikola Dmitrovic Katerinczuk. I want to tell you that there have been 37 amendments to the second reading. All are accounted for without exception. In this way, these amendments, let's say, are correlated with those changes to the Law on the Election of Deputies of Local Councils and Rural, Rural Heads, which we recently voted on. This bill and the table are being prepared by the General Legal Authority without notice. This is saying that we've worked this model completely with them. And I'll tell you that as a result, if a decision is made today, we've done a qualitatively correcting bill, and there are no obstacles to voting it all at once. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, since all the amendments are included, I would just like to put the law to the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer of a committee of profile? I'm asking you to take your seats. I've been approached with complaints that we're not just saying this law, we're going to be looking at a reduced procedure, we're going to be looking at the Opposition Act. Colleagues, I'm asking you, if we're going to make an offer, we need the committee to look at it. The committee hasn't considered it. Let the committee review the Opposition Act on the intermission, and we can decide in the second half when the committee supports it. So please sit down, honourable national deputies, so that we do not ask the same question five times. And I ask you to determine whether there is any support for Law 1098 in the committee that was reported to us by National Deputy Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Do you understand the offer? Got it. I beg you, fellow officers, to vote. Please make up your mind to adopt the law in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:31:37]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Party of regions - 1. Fatherland is 77. Vitalia Calla's hit is 21. Economic Development is 28. "North European Ukraine" is 10. "Freedom." 35. 0 is a company. 22 – non-faulty. The decision, unfortunately, is not adopted. I'd like you to turn on the mic of Mikoli Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to propose that we put to the vote the first time we read again. I understand that some factions do not vote because there is no decision on the second reading of the Opposition Law. Therefore, the request was made to reread the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, please, we can't trade here. Who knows who doesn't understand? There's a way to figure it out. I think that if Parliament is able to determine by other laws, that is how parliamentarians will be defined. There will be an invitation to the deputies to return to the consideration of this law, and I will put the vote back. There won't be such an offer, let's not play with it, dear fellows, because the election is already coming. This technology is efficient enough, but we must have the courage to support it so that our electors can support the measure that most of the population of our cities speak for. But I say again, I'm not going to "rape" the hall and force you to vote. He'll want to vote, go back to that question, we'll go back to him, but we don't have time for that. Dear colleagues, please, the next draft of the law is very important, very difficult, but we need to consider it and adopt it. This is a draft law on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations, Valérie Vasilovich Puckan. Please, Valery Vasilovich. Where's Valery Vasilovich Puckan? Dear colleagues, please arrange for the work of the deputies. No responsible law, an important law, and no committee head to report it! I'm making a note! We're not going to take that question down because it's too important to the country. Now let's take a look at the question. Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel, please, 2258a. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the order of business opening. Please find the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u56	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! This is the second reading of the bill, which was submitted by the previous government and supported by the committee, and completed by the National Deputies. The purpose of the bill is to simplify and speed up the business opening procedure. Improving the state’s business headquarters, as well as improving Ukraine’s international position through the cancellation of the registration fee, as well as the establishment of a mechanism for national registration of legal and natural persons, (we have voted with you on this decision), the possibility of using an electronic digital signature without it. All of you who did the business, or you know what the entrepreneurs did, is one of the obstacles to opening up a business that is now urgent in the country for people to engage in self-employment, so that they can earn money, not be people who have only subsidies from the state. This is an opportunity, as we agreed with you, to improve the entire business climate. And so, you know, in order to start a business earlier, you had to spend money, go to the police. Accept permits. And it's already been recognized by all ministries, law enforcement and taxation that this seal, which spent both money and time on entrepreneurs, is not a protection against counterfeiting. Because today it's such a technology that any seal is used. Most countries have already refused, without sealing. The bill has 81 amendments, 42 are counted, and 32 are rejected. The bill offers the opportunity to choose whether an entrepreneur wants to use a seal or not. But such seals are not mandatory. And the signing of treaties, and everything else, remains his right. The only thing I can say in person as a reporter is that I'd like to support number nine, Mrs. Sold. And I would support her text. And another amendment to Oksana's sale. This is Amendment No. 40. I'd like to support her, too. She'll only improve the drafting of the bill. I ask the deputies to support the improvement of business headquarters in Ukraine and to simplify the process of obligation to seal. Please vote on the law in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, do you understand the position of the committee of profile? Got it. Please, Alexander Volodymyr, take your seats. Come on. And you want me to give the committee's head a profile of the occupied territories. So you can vote here on the stand, I don't deny it. Dear colleagues, please support the Law, which simplifies the procedure for opening up a small, medium-sized business, etc. 2258a is his registration number. Please, Your Honor, support our citizens who want to start their business without bribes. Please uphold the law, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u58	Please be supportive. [[11:38:11]] For 223
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, once again, this is the disorganization of our work. Colleagues, I can't raise my voice against you, then you'll make me notice that I'm beyond my authority. A law that allows our citizens to open their case without bribes. What's the problem? The factions, please. Let's go. Regional Party – 5, 76 – Fatherland, 23 – Impact, Economic Development – 26, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 3.0 – Company, non-fractional – 33. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Come into the hall, please announce in the towers of the National Deputies. Colleagues, while there's no break, we all have to work in the hall, not in the towers. I would like to ask Parliament, deputies, to sit in their seats and return to this issue. Please vote. [[11:39:13]] For 241 Decision taken. Please accept this law in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[11:39:36]] For 244 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one minute, let's give Alexandra Volodymyrical Lady, there's a very short law. And we move on to a very important Act on occupied territories.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u60	Thank you. 0932 is a regulation to reverse the review of the licensing bill. It was filed six years ago, it's a very bad editorial. In order to register a new licensing law that requires business today to improve the control of state institutions, I ask to vote on the Order to Repeal the Bill, which was submitted six years ago and a very bad edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u61	We can just put this law to a vote, the Supreme Council won't support it, and so we'll just reject it. Come on, this is going to be faster than the Withdrawal Order. Members of parliament who want the new law to be registered do not vote. I bet on the vote of Law 0932 in the second reading and in general. Please. [[11:40:48]] For-31 The decision is not taken. This law has been removed from consideration. This, you see, is faster and more effective. Dear colleagues, please. Please, honourable national MPs, Valery Vasilovich Packana, head of the committee, report a draft law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens in Ukraine's temporarily occupied territory on second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u62	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill (registration number 4473-1) on the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory that was introduced by the People's Deputy Sobolev, I want to inform you that it has been radically changed. This law was being worked on by all ministries and departments authorized by human rights. The committee also took into account the remedies, comments from international organizations, such as the International Organization of Migrants, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. The final edition of this law is proposed for consideration. I would like to focus on the very main points that have been regulated by this law. I know a lot of questions about this law. I will try to inform you that what changes have taken place in this law. First. We have radically changed and ensured the rights of citizens in temporarily occupied areas that move from it. This applies to obtaining documents confirming the status of a Ukrainian citizen, certifying a person or his or her special status, namely employment of the population, pensions, compulsory public social insurance and other social services. We have identified the characteristics of the cessation of Ukrainian military service in military formations and law enforcement agencies in Ukraine, which are located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We guaranteed that our judicial branch of power would be transferred from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to Ukraine and that these judges would be transferred to other courts. At the same time, during the drafting of the bill, there was a discussion on the purpose of introducing such a norm as collaborationism in legislation. By the committee and the entire working group working on the writing of this law, article 10 of "Collaboration Activities" was adopted in the first reading, we ruled out. This is what you see on page 94 in a comparison table. At the suggestion of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, an additional article has been prepared for the drafting of the bill, which is article 12 which regulates the changes in the territorial jurisdiction of the courts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That is, we provide a legal regulatory mechanism to ensure that our citizens are still entitled to appeal to European courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u63	Please don't limit the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u64	also make a brief comment about the amendments that have been made. A total of 272 amendments were made to Ukraine’s national deputies. Corrections to all national MPs are taken into account or taken into account in an editorial manner. What does that mean? There have been several amendments made by various deputies, but in one edition we have worked on these amendments according to those ministries and departments and put them in such an order that they do not deny or violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to take into account the insistence of the people's MP Suškević, amendment number 104, and place it on confirmation. This applies to the entry into the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of persons with disabilities and others into a special rehabilitation base. And I'm also informing people's deputies -- this is page 46-47 of the comparative table. I would also like to inform you that there are a lot of colossalities and many debates regarding the amendment to economic activity. I would like to ask for article 13, which is part two, in the following wording: "in the occupied territory, there is no government regulation of entrepreneurial activity." So we don't ban entrepreneurial activity in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The bill before the committee is proposed, if there are any comments please and ready to hear them, a bill is ready to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the profile committee? Please, I see a lot of hands on questions. Is this a question or an amendment? It's on the books. Please, if you'll excuse me, I see your hand and I'll give my word to the national deputy. National MP Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u66	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the first reading of article 9 of the bill took into account the characteristics of the cessation of service not only of the Ukrainian Armed Forces but also of the military and other military formations and law enforcement agencies. Regrettably, however, article 14 deals solely with the characteristics of the cessation of the service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I would like to propose that Amendment 172, which is the drafting of the National Deputy Benjuk, be included in the final text of the bill, which states that the characteristics of the cessation of service apply not only to the military and the armed forces of Ukraine, but also to other military formations and law enforcement agencies, namely the internal forces, the foreign service, the security service of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u67	Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u68	We gave out this amendment. If he's underlining a national MP, I'd like you to put him on the stand. For support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, may I bet? The repair number again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let me put it this way: I see a lot of hands, a lot of hands, but let me follow the rules and I'll ask and put every amendment to the vote because. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what I'm suggesting. Because I see a lot of hands. We still don't vote anymore. So please. Please, dear fellows, let's do some repairs. Amendment 3, People's Deputy Belkova. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, we'll get to 72. Please, National MP Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to two tables: one common and one additional. So the first amendment in the extra table refers to the name of this law. Among other things, it is completely compatible with the position of the judiciary. The thing is, under international public law, there can't be a "temporary occupied territory" because it's occupied by the apiori temporarily. What has now been done with Crimea is an annexation, not an occupation, because Crimea, de jure, is included in another country's composition. So we have to put it all over the law instead of "temporarily occupied territory" "illegally occupied," "unlawfully occupied" or "extended territory." This will coincide with the Geneva, The Hague Convention, and the established expressions of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u71	I very much ask you not to acknowledge the annexation. It's occupied -- it's already occupied. She's already illegal. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! How can you legally or illegally occupy the territory? If it's occupied, it's illegally occupied.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry. So there's an offer other than "temporary," to write another "temporarily illegally occupied territory"? It's going to be, "temporary" has political meaning, and I'm asking him not to clean up. "Temporarily occupied territory." And that's what the Russian Federation needs to know, and everyone in the world knows that this area is temporarily occupied. So, dear colleagues, I ask you, I can put the proposal of the national deputy Terhochin to a vote. Please, this is an additional table, first amendment. Please identify yourself for support. [[11:50:24]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. Please, Your Honor, as amended. National MP Bilkov, the amendment, insists? Don't insist. National Deputy Dobkin, I understand, is not insisting on his amendment. Next. Also, the amendment of National Deputy Dobkin, he does not insist, because he is not in the Hall. I'm calling the number. 19th National MP, Voropeyev. I'll take the main one. Dear colleagues, I'm leaving. I don't know what the main thing is, I'm doing the biggest table, the rejected amendments, the honorary colleagues, on the basic table. Then we'll have an extra one. Colleagues, calm down, please! We're spending more time arguing. Is that why Voropeiev, the national MP, insists? I don't see Voropiev. It's gonna be Voropeiev. No, he doesn't insist. I'll give you a name that has an amendment, and I'll give you an opportunity to do that. Dear colleagues, next question. 27 amendment, rejected. Is National Deputy Corge insisting? Don't insist. National MP Bilkova, 31st Amendment. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 41st is rejected. Is Ljovczyn's national deputy not insisting? Don't insist. 45th National Deputy Bilkova, dismissed. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 64th National Deputy Ariev. Don't you insist? He insists. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, there is a situation where many citizens of Ukraine, as stipulated in the Crimea, are now presumptively refusing to become citizens of Russia by April 18 or automatically counting them. And in this case, they actually become criminals after the adoption of this law. I know that in my district, especially in Kiev, there are people who are prescribed in Crimea but who are disabled, and they cannot go there to write statements. I insist that we approve this amendment, that forced admission to another country's citizens is not recognized by Ukrainian legislation. Because at this point it's going to be fair to those citizens who are actually in a difficult situation right now, and they can't go to Crimea to write these statements. It's just that we don't recognize forced involvement in another state's citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, in support, I am voting in favour of this amendment. Please make up your mind. [[11:53:46]] For 171 The amendment is not supported, unfortunately. The next amendment, my dear colleagues. 72 amendment, doesn't it insist? Don't insist. 77th National MP Homutinick doesn't insist on an amendment? No, it's not. Belkova’s national deputy does not insist on 80 amendments. National Deputy Catherinechuk, 81st Amendment doesn't insist? No, it's not. I call numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u75	81st, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u76	88th, partially counted. Dear colleagues, I can't see the author. Now. I called Catherinechuk, nobody raised their hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u77	I raised my hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u78	Okay. I'm going back to 81. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u79	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. First of all, I want to tell the faction that we insist that there should be a minister in the Cabinet of Ministers on Crimea issues, because there are a lot of people who would like to talk today and he would help organize and implement this bill. It's about the repairs. In this amendment, Mr. Catherinechuk and I propose that we allow the Minister's Office to be represented in the occupied territory of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, who would be accountable, accountable to their people, but would perform functions that would provide the Cabinet of Ministers in the occupied territory. This would allow the Crimean Ukrainians not only to travel to Herson, as the bill stipulates, to the mainland, but also to have representatives of the Ukrainian people in the occupied territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the only thing I want to say is that it's a public organization, and only by its consent can it be given any authority and functions. Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u81	Dear Chairman, it's a public activity, it doesn't fit our law at all. I propose to put it to a vote. If the hall is identified, he can support it. The committee has another.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u82	Please identify a support room. Please vote. [[11:56:31]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Not supported. 94th Amendment. People's deputy Belkova. 89th. National deputy Shevchenko, please. Now I'm going to give you a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u83	Alexander Valentinovich and Valerius Vasilovich, I address the committee head. Valery Vasilovich, let's consult together. See, 89 amendments, and this is what applies to the regime of entry into Crimea. I'm talking to all my colleagues. In that edition that we now have, Ukrainian citizens will be able to enter Crimea only with special permission from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We had a very big discussion on the committee. Let's get back to it. My offer is persistent. Make sure that citizens of Ukraine can enter Crimea by means of a passport that testifies to citizenship but without the special permission of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and BSS. Millions of people will have to go to Crimea to visit relatives, friends. It is absurd when the state of Ukraine forbids its citizens without special permission to travel to the territory. This is reflected in amendments 107 to Belkova, 110 to Voropeyeva, 111 to Moscalenka. I propose that the final edition should ensure that the need for a special permit is not extended to Ukrainian citizens. I think this amendment, if we formulate it, will find support in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! I want to explain to you about this amendment we had a lot of discussions on the committee about how to correct this amendment. Explain why. At the request of the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defense, our special units want to monitor the people entering and going into the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The citizens of Ukraine, which are listed in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, come in and out of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea without hindrance to their passports. In order for us to have monitoring, whether there are any special groups leaving the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, to see if these people are supporting the separatist moods in Lugansk, Donetsk, we need minimal monitoring of these people. I understand that there are many discussions. But understand one thing. Now people are going to Hersonish and other regions of Ukraine, and then they're taking part in the outbreak of conflicts in Lugansk, Donetsk. The Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, should at least monitor them. We don't run people into special permits with special documents. In front of the passport.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u86	Any migration service gives a certificate of entry and exit to the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This was requested by the U.S.S. Department of Defense and the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we can now determine on this amendment by voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll be able to say, right now, colleagues, we're not discussing right now. First reading, then discussion. Now there's an amendment, there's a committee position. I am committed to supporting this amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I can't help it. Let's define colleagues, then we'll talk. I support this amendment. Please identify yourself in the hall. [[12:00:01]] For 111 The decision is not taken. Please, People's Deputy Pilepenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u88	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. The point is that Amendment 88, which regulates the movement of citizens of Ukraine in the territory of its own state, is written that it is edited and is not actually counted. And article 10 suggests that Ukrainian citizens in their territory, their own state, be moved by special passes. Therefore, we urge our group to vote in favour of Amendment 88, which provides that Ukrainian citizens have the right to free and unimpeded entry and exit from temporarily occupied territory only if a document confirming Ukrainian citizenship is presented. The order of entry and departure of aliens and stateless persons is regulated on condition that special permission is granted. Ukrainian citizens must move freely throughout their own country. And we ask that this amendment be confirmed, because this is an important amendment for Ukrainian citizens who have property in Crimea who have relatives in Crimea who have business in Crimea. We are now effectively banning them from moving in their own country. Please place our amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please make up your mind. There has already been a comment from the committee on this subject. Please identify yourself in the hall. Please vote. [[12:01:33]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand what this is. Dear colleagues, please, I can once again put this amendment to the vote at the request of the Hall. But I ask you not to go to the hall then, sit in your workplace. And then let's talk about it. In view of the fact that we have announced a faction council, we will now vote on this amendment, and after the break we will continue to work on the law. Because in 15 minutes, I can see that we will solve this problem. Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the amendment made by Philippenk and other national deputies, but it will logically work with the amendment of Ariev, where we do not recognize forced entry into citizenship. You understand the logic, the Russian Federation has announced that everyone who doesn't leave Russia by April 18 is automatically Russian citizens. Russia -- I'm saying what I'm saying. That's why I have an offer. These two amendments are related. We don't recognize forced entry into citizenship, and then the Pilates amendment works. These two amendments are related to Ariev and Pilpenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's vote on one amendment and then on to the second amendment. Is there no objection? I am now asking for an amendment to the Philippines, which does not restrict the movement of our citizens in Ukraine, because we think that Crimea is our territory. Another question is, Of course, that control of entry and exit should be so that there are no provokers, divers, or so forth. Dear colleagues, please identify an 88-Amendment Hall, I understand. Please vote. [[12:03:37]] For 253 Decision taken. Please correct Arjev. You tell me the number? 64. Now I ask you to determine about 64 amendments to non-recognition of compulsory citizenship. Please make up your mind. [[12:04:08]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, please let us not exercise in voting, but let us now take a clear and responsible view of this matter. I'm re-voting this amendment. Guys, it's an amendment, it's not a law. Please be sure to support amendment number 64 of the Ariev People’s Deputies. Please vote. [[12:04:48]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is the way the 89 amendments are done, automatically, because we voted in the newspaper of the Philippines. We've been through 94 amendments, and then we stop at 95 amendments and we stop at 101 amendments. Okay. There's a break in 12 hours for 30 minutes. Please. I'm addressing the heads of MPs and factions, please come to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u92	We will now continue the work of Parliament. I ask the Secretariat to make an announcement outside the hall so everyone can come to the plenary room. And we have passed a very important law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens in the temporarily occupied territory. Dear colleagues, I will brief you very briefly on the issues that have been discussed at the Conciliation Board of Heads of All Deputies and Groups. We decided to hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council tomorrow, Wednesday, to listen to all the strong ministers and leaders on Ukraine’s national security issues, to protect the constitutional system and other urgent problems involved. As respectable colleagues, we should also work effectively today in connection with the fact that the pause has, unfortunately, stalled. We agreed that all factions would contribute to the stability of the situation both in Parliament and in Ukraine, so that we could have consolidation, and we could create all the conditions to protect the territorial integrity and integrity of our state. I, my honourable colleagues, have been asked by those who gathered in Parliament to announce their request. And please, do we have a microphone on the street? The sound works on the street, I understand? People in Parliament are asked to announce their demands. And I'm going to do that, and how much I'm going to figure out what's written here. Anyway, I'll read it. People are demanding decisive action on the constitutional order in the country, they demand the mobilization of all patriots of Ukraine to protect Ukrainian citizens from the invaders, they demand the resignation of the Minister of Interior, they support General Krutov, who has headed the Anti-Terrorism Centre and is now coordinating the work on an anti-terror operation in eastern Ukraine. And they ask Parliament to work actively and hard. Dear colleagues! As for the first point, to act decisively on the constitutional system in the country, I think the whole Parliament fully supports this, and to mobilize all the patriots of Ukraine to protect the citizens of Ukraine from the invaders, I have been addressing today, and again I am addressing all the patriots who want to protect Ukraine: we are ready to accept you and create special militia units to carry out very important tasks. We ask that we voluntarily join the ranks of the National Guard of Ukraine, as well as the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please, all the patriots who want to protect the country, we will create all the conditions for you, but we need to take these courageous steps not only at the rally, but really go to the National Guard, to the militia, update the militia, strengthen the National Guard, strengthen the Armed Forces. And together, we will protect Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to come to the podium of the head of the profile committee. We'll continue our work. Please. We're working on Amendment 101 right now. The only thing that we can do now is to adopt this law to protect our citizens in occupied areas by lunchtime. Let's make a decision quickly. 101 revisions. Mikola Dmitrovitch Catherinechuk insists? No, it's not. Don't insist. Next question. Belkova, National MP, Amendment 109. Don't insist. Next question, dear colleagues. We're moving up, yeah. 124 revisions. 120th. 120 revisions. Please return to the 120 revisions. People's MP Filipenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Economic Development Group is asking you all to support the amendment made by me and my colleague Vitali Homutinik. What is the point of this amendment? Although it says here that it's edited, it's not. We believe that Ukrainian citizens have the right to travel freely in Ukraine and that there must be freedom of contract throughout Ukraine. So citizens who have a garage in Crimea, or an apartment, or a room that they rent during the season, or some other property, have the right to sell it freely, rent it, how they can do it all over Ukraine. And this question concerns hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. So our amendment predicted that freedom of contract would be in place throughout Ukraine. Instead, the proposed edition of article 11 effectively excludes this freedom of contract and prohibits any right with the property of Ukrainian citizens. That's why I'm asking you, Alexander Valentinovich, to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u95	Thank you. In order for this amendment to be taken into account and our Economic Development Group has the opportunity to support this law as a whole, I ask you now, in accordance with part three of article 120 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to put to the vote the exclusion of part four, sixth and seventh of article 11 as proposed by the Committee. And that's when we're going to be able, the Economic Development Group, to support this law, because it's going to allow Ukrainian citizens to freely sell, rent, rent their property. Thank you. And please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the chairman of the committee will now comment on this question. I see the hand and the national deputy Teryochin. We have to divide the two positions here. One issue is the property of citizens and the question of inheritance, the question of the sale of own property, the other, the opening of gateways to legal property. This will lead to Ukraine’s seized illegal property being owned by illegal buyers. It's very dangerous, fellow citizens, you know how many state-owned enterprises have been captured in Crimea, how many other assets, including our citizens, could be reselled by illegal owners, so I'd like to make these problems very clear. Let's turn Teryochina on the microphone, the People's Deputy Ljovczyn, and comment on the committee's head. This is a very important question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u97	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be very careful. Indeed, paragraph 4 was not in the first reading, so we can not do so: simply put in paragraph 4, which prohibits the commission of property rights in Crimea for confirmation and does not support this paragraph 4, because paragraph 5, which has introduced the committee, clearly states that any rights citizens of Ukraine may exercise their property if these rights are properly established in the unoccupied territory of Ukraine. So we don't have to rule out the 5th. We don't have to support the 4th. Or take my 35th row from the Advanced Table, which sounds very simple. It sounds like that: the rights to immovable or movable property in the territory of the illegally occupied part of the territory of Ukraine can be imposed solely on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u99	They can form and register exclusively in Ukraine, free of occupation. So in other words, if a Ukrainian citizen has property in an occupied territory and he wants to sell this property, he has a sales registration to do in an unoccupied territory. And the Cabinet of Ministers will decide how to do that. By the way, the Justice Department and I talked about this, they're in the same position. So it's either the 4th rule out, or I'll take it as an editorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u100	Of course, Sergey Anatolyovich. So it matches the 5th amendment, the 5th article of the committee. Please, the People's Deputies of Ljovczyn. And I'm asking Valeria to comment on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u101	First of all, I want to support what Mr. Filipenko said. We need to enable people who are not even in the territory to sell their property and enter into a contract. I therefore propose to support the text of 121 amendments. That's my amendment. All of this is also written about what the Head of the Supreme Council says, too. The fact that the property now declared there by the Crimea Republic, the Ukrainian property declared by the Crimea Republic, is not to be recognized. And leave everyone in quota status before the occupation took place. That's in the first two paragraphs. That's what you're talking about, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council. At the same time, it is very clear here that the treaty will not have the right of Ukrainian citizens to conclude in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers in the territory of Ukraine. And this order is just a special order. What Terethin offers is not appropriate either. Because order must be special to this property, these territories, these citizens. And it will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers. It's an absolutely normal offer. I'm offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u102	Thank you. I'm asking you one more minute, let's listen to this, this is an important question, Deputy Minister of Justice. Please turn on the microphone. Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I'd like to comment now on what National MP Teryohin has just said. You can’t be allowed to register in Crimea territory, and you can’t register in the mainland of Ukraine. Because, first of all, they're now going to the legislation of the Russian Federation. And we won't be able to register in the mainland of Ukraine. Then you have to say, let it go and put Ukraine's legislation on the mainland, and register here on the mainland. And exclusively, let's say, with the characteristics set out, we agree that we can set out the specifics of the procedures for the conclusion and registration of such contracts and contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u103	Got it. That's a very logical explanation and a proposition. Because we do not know how the agreement is made in the occupied territory. Maybe it's under duress. That's why you put it together and register. Please let the committee comment. Victor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u104	Well, dear colleagues, let's read both part four and part five of the law. We do not forbid individuals. But we have legal entities, and we have an ennam number of lawsuits and our property, which is in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. For individuals in part five, we made it clear that only if the rights are exercised in our register. If necessary, I agree with the People's Deputy Ljovckina, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, with an additional order for the registration of these rights. But it is logically explained in article 4, article 5. We can unite them if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u105	I mean, I understand that the proposal is the 5th article to leave in the light of the positions that the first deputy minister of justice has heard. Yeah? Do you accept such, respected colleagues, positions? Let's not vote, because we're just going to break the law. I'm addressing the People's Deputy, Philippeenka. So this is a position that you've practically announced. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u106	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, it's not really the proposal I announced. I announced that, according to part three of article 120 of the Rules, we have the right to exclude certain parts of the article that is proposed for us to vote on by the Main Committee. And I proposed, and our group is proposing to exclude part four, sixth and seventh because they are contrary to the principles of freedom of contract. We will not be able to give our citizens the right to freely enter into agreements on their property that is in Crimea. If we don't, unfortunately, I don't think the Economic Development Group will be able to adopt this law. Because we are against the citizens of Ukraine being forbidden to lay rights in Crimea, Ukraine. And we ask you to put to the vote this proposal that I have made on behalf of the group, in accordance with part three of article 120 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I cannot deny it. Please vote on the deletion of articles 4, 6 and 7. Please vote. [[13:38:36]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is entirely possible to agree with the People’s Deputy Philippeenko on the exclusion of paragraphs 4 and 6 of this article. But you can't touch that, 7 points. See what it says here: "In a temporarily occupied territory, any right to immovable property, including land plots, committed to violating the requirements of this law and other laws of Ukraine, is considered worthless." That's right. So let's rule out 4 and 6, and we're going to support each other, and this is going to match the position of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this position to rule out 4 and 6, leaving the 7th. Is there no objection? None. I ask everyone to vote so that we can make a decision later. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[13:39:59]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there any other amendments that the MPs insist on? Yes. 124th. Please turn on the microphone to the People’s Deputy Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, my amendment refers to the point of view that Alexander Valentinovich conducted so as not to take possession of our possessions. The thing is, in Crimea today, there are health clinics for open stockholders or public shareholders of Zaporoztal, Dniprostal, Kragrofit. "Sich Motor" and stuff. Therefore, the characteristics of economic activity, where any economic activity is prohibited, are wrong. So I propose that Valeriy Vasilovich confirm for the transcript without voting that this does not apply to activities related to the provision of medical, preventive, rehabilitation services to citizens in sanatoriums and health facilities that belong to us, Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u111	Please, National Deputy Terjohin wishes to speak on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we have now reached Article 13, which defines the characteristics of economic activity. I can tell you that more, seven, exactly, seven meetings have been held with a vast variety of companies, legal persons, and individuals involved in entrepreneurial activities. In the way that this article is written in this law, it is practically forbidden to engage in any economic activity in the occupied territory. That's not true. We have a different offer. And she agrees with virtually all factions that article 13 simply states that the characteristics of economic activity in a temporarily occupied territory are defined by a separate law. We are committed by the end of this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I understand Sergey Anatolyovich Teryochin's offer. And by the way, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Heads of Deputies and factions, this proposal was also supported. There is a suggestion to formulate the 13th article as announced by Sergey Terhochin that the question of economic activity in the occupied territory is governed by a separate law so that we can be. And the correction is taken into account by the sanatorium. Please. After all, not just by the sanatorium, but by all the property of the state, so that we can emphasize it in the vote. Is that a question? Is there a word to be made, People's Deputy Ljovczyn? Thank you. Dear colleagues, when we vote, we'll take a position like this, and I'll announce it again before we make a decision. Dear colleagues, for that matter? Please, Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u114	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. What Suhi said is the only thing I can say to state and public organizations, especially those with disabilities. There's, you know, public property. Just add it to the protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u115	Public and public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u116	No, it's not. I think there are property and legal persons, yes or no? And these are public organizations -- trade unions. Yes. Okay. Dear colleagues who still insist on the amendments of Yuri Miroshnichenko and Julia Ljovczyn. In turn, let us give the opportunity to express ourselves and make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I would like to return you to article 8 and there's a sub-paragraph "a" in the first article 8 where this is meant: "in the temporarily occupied territory, any business activity in parentheses is prohibited (entrepreneous and not commercial economic activity). I suggest that if it is subject to state regulation, such as licensing for obtaining permits for certificates, etc. I propose to exclude the provision of higher education services so that we don't exclude our students who are studying Ukrainian programs. The educational institutions that work in Crimea, so that we don't actually push them out of the educational space of Ukraine and according to Ukrainian standards, and that their diplomas are recognized. So I'm going to add it there.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u118	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u119	I read sub-paragraph (a) of any business activity in parentheses (entrepreneursary and non-commercial economic activity and additions other than higher education services) the parentheses close and then the text closes. So we're actually testifying that these are our citizens, they're the ones who get education according to Ukrainian standards. In principle, this amendment was taken into account, even written down, probably simply not entered technically.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u120	I apologize for how much I understood we excluded the entire article. We have ruled out the entire article 13 where this amendment is to be made. [[The voice from the hall. This is article 8.]] That's 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u121	She's already changed the number, please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u122	I'll explain a little bit to this law was added to seven more articles and the article you're saying now is article 13 we agreed to exclude the activity of agriculture into a separate law and then write it down. So it's going to be included in the new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u123	I see. People's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the amendment of my 206. So what's this all about? Imagine the situation: now many Ukrainian citizens who are in Crimea have no physical ability to obtain any kind of State aid, any kind of consultation. I just have a bunch of citizens in reception who are asking simple, pressing questions: "If I want to get a high school diploma for my child, Ukrainian, and go to Ukrainian colleges, what should I do?" The same health issues and so on. We have a situation where the Ukrainian authorities do not recognize the authority of Crimea. Thus, the Ministry of Education of Ukraine does not communicate in any way with the Ministry of Education in Crimea and so on. These issues are not resolved and are not agreed upon. My amendment therefore proposes to establish a special body with the representative of the President to the Crimea, some focal points in Crimea that would allow citizens to regulate life issues and address these life issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u125	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u126	In Crimea. That's what Kugel was talking about with Majelis's proposals. And here I agree that this is a public organization, it cannot perform these functions. So we need to invent some form, I propose here in the presence of the President, as focal points in Crimea, where citizens can address their current civil, legal and mass issues. If we do not engage in this dialogue, in the absence of dialogue between the central authorities of Ukraine and the self-proclaimed authorities in the Crimea, we are losing contact with our own people at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u127	Please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u128	I completely agree with you, but that's not the law you need to make right now. Either a decree, or a separate normative act, that will regulate the matter. Understand correctly if we don't adopt the Occupational Areas Act. We already have the world's recognition that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is occupied, except for the Ukrainian Parliament. Well, let's not break this law in order to make it a whole, and then a separate decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u129	Please, dear fellows! Bogdan Benjuk, National Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u130	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich! I'd like to get the attention of all the deputies -- 172 and 173 -- because they're specifically about the fate and the military who served in Crimea and they're going back, and the judges, the next amendment, 173. So 172 amendments are going to sound like this because article 9 after 8 is added, and it's going to sound like this: The military, which, during a special period, came from the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and expressed the desire (if available) to be released from military service, were released from military service on the basis of available grounds and, in the absence of them, because of the cuts in the states. Soldiers who have not arrived at designated locations are considered to have left the military and are placed under the authority of the appropriate officials are excluded from the lists of personnel. Relevant information on their search is provided to law enforcement agencies. Military officers who have received documentary confirmation of their membership in the Russian Federation Armed Forces have been excluded from the lists of military formations and law enforcement authorities in Ukraine, and the contract has been terminated since they were included in the Russian Federation Armed Forces." And the next amendment is 173. Article 14 after 13 refers to judges, which is very important, that judges who want to continue working are provided with work on the mainland. I'd like to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u131	Please, Valery Vasilovich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u132	As for the first amendment, I agree with Bogdan Mikhailovich, this applies not only to our military, but also to internal affairs, to the militia, to the State Security Service, and to many others. I fully support it. As for the second amendment, the transfer to the mainland land of our judges, the judicial corps, is included in another article. So it's secure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! It's accepted, isn't it, an offer? Please, please, colleagues, come on, I feel like we're making a decision. Sergey Teryochina's microphone, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, there's literally another little right and wishes. Alexander Valentinovich, the law applies to article 7, paragraph 6. There is a novelty: If a person moves from Crimea and wants to stop working relationships, since he does not go into occupied territory to do so, he can do so in court. This is not true because there is no subject matter. It has to be written that such relations, at the request of the settlers to the mainland, are legally binding. Legally, since it is not clear who will be the defendant in a court of law in such a labour dispute, it is there in the occupied territory. And a second wish. Alexander Valentinovich, and the legal administration, and my remedies were suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u135	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u136	on the introduction of terms relating to illegal occupation or annexation to established rules of international law. We must use this law not only for internal use but also show it in the United Nations and in other international institutions. I have a request to adopt this law with the mandate of the Legal Authority to do technical legal work in part of the terminology of international public law that exists in the United Nations and, as a minimum, in the Hague, Geneva Occupational Convention. With all these remarks, I would like us to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! People's MP Filipenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, indeed, there was a fair offer that applied both to the exclusion of the economic bloc and to the judges. I just want to draw your attention, Mr. Chairman, that if we, and we are doing the right thing, are transferring judges who want to work in the territory of Ukraine and are transferring cases that are being transferred to the relevant courts, we should or should instruct the appropriate authorities to examine in order to increase vacancies in the courts, because the judges must be transferred to vacant positions. And if the pressure on Kiev goes up to the district courts, maybe there's a need to increase the vacancy. This is a very important question. I think that in the Final Situations it is necessary to give the necessary instructions to the appropriate authorities to consider this in the shortest terms so that we can ensure the right of citizens to a fair trial and the right of judges to work in the appropriate courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I think we will give a protocol commission to our meeting and to the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet of Ministers. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Levockyny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u140	I want to go back to the question I asked the Chairman of the Committee. He agrees with me, but he says that the law must be passed and that the adoption should not be hindered. I completely agree with that. Then I have this suggestion: if you don't want to accept this amendment as it is written down, I suggest then "to assign the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an appropriate order and."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u141	Order of what?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u142	Establish a body to deal with Crimea citizens in Ukraine. And I'd like you to write that down. Secondly, what I wish to say to the Chairman of the Committee is a massive violation of article 116 of the Rules in the preparation of the Act. Articles appear that were not, articles disappear from the law that was in the first edition, and it is very difficult for members to work and submit their amendments in such a regime. Therefore, the request for the future, when considering such important laws, does not violate the Rules when considering drafts in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u143	Thank you. Turn on Valery Vasilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to give you an answer that I support you with the Cabinet of Ministers, your offer. And with regard to breaking the Rules, this law has radically changed from that law that was in its first edition. That law had sharp corners, and we had to take them away in order for this law to be prescribed for citizens, to ensure the rights and opportunities of citizens. All the amendments to the people's MPs that we've made, we've tried to take into account. The working group was not just a committee, but all the ministries and departments that we now have in the state were working. Plus he worked for the International Organization of Migrants, plus the United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees. The working group worked for a week, followed by 77 amendments. Do you understand? Such a law was to be divided into at least 3-4 laws. And it should regulate a certain kind of activity. But we can't step aside now so we don't approve of this law. Because this is how we cross-reference the rights and capabilities of all citizens who are now in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u145	I'll give you a very brief comment. The Cabinetman is considering this question. They're the only ones who haven't identified themselves, they're going to be the Minister for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the Deputy Prime Minister for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers is creating a separate department from occupied areas that will deal exclusively with this problem. So, dear colleagues, these positions are already taken into account. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! I ask in the final positions what the judges have said, not only by judges, but to prescribe the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to anticipate changes to the budget for this year. The opening of vacancies in those positions of judges, law enforcement, the Ministry of Defence, which will be transferred to the territory of Ukraine and which will work. So that they'll be provided with the budget and the housing, and the jobs, and everything else. That is, the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers is protocol not only for judges but for all other organs to prescribe the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u147	Okay, that counts. Dear colleagues! Before voting, I ask that we give the word or the minister of justice, or the first deputy. Who will speak? Please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon. I'd like to ask you a huge request. Of course, this law is very complex from the point of view of the technical side, the legal side. But without this law, we can't solve a whole series of urgent issues that are now being raised by our compatriots who are living in extremely difficult conditions in occupied areas. This is also a question of protecting them from the forced acquisition of Russian citizenship. This is also a question of simplifying the transfer of business to Ukraine. This is also a question of the possibility of recourse to the courts, the Ukrainian courts, in order to protect their property rights, property rights, personal rights. This law solves a whole range of issues for every ordinary citizen who lives in the occupied territories. In the occupied area of Crimea. That's why I'm asking you so much. Let's adopt this law, this is going to be the first step in helping our citizens not just in words, but in real action. If any questions arise in the future, we will make changes. And I'm convinced that by taking these steps, we're really going to help those simple people who are in an extremely difficult situation. With regard to the law and so - called prohibition of the establishment of rights in Crimea. This rule was laid down in the law with only one purpose: to prevent violations of the rights of our citizens because some fictitious property change procedures will be applied in Crimea. We have a proposal, and I ask before voting in favour of the law in general to try to vote on such a precise regulation. The first sentence of part five. "The acquisition and termination of property rights to immovable property in the occupied territory shall be carried out in accordance with Ukrainian legislation outside the occupied territory." This means that any interested person who wants to sell or buy real estate can do so in any settlement in Ukraine, in any notary, according to our legislation. This is technically possible because, as of today, Ukraine’s registration service will register all real estate rights on the mainland of Ukraine. I ask you to give our citizens such an opportunity so that they can legally exercise their property rights. And once again, please support this law as a whole. Indeed, with the mandate of the Legal Authority and the Committee to undertake technical and legal drafting of this bill. But we really need him. Ukrainian citizens need it first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I would ask that we take into account the remarks that the Minister of Justice has just announced. And so that when we vote, we can count them. I'll remind her that we ruled out article 13, more faithfully, that they gave her an editorial that would regulate the economic issues of the occupied territory by law. You and I have been through virtually every amendment. I also confirm for the transcript that the law will need technical legal processing. And besides, dear friends, I ask you to support the offer of the military and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. What does it mean? So that we can form this article during the technical legal process. They're asking for permission to privatize the military and the employees of the Ministry of Service's residence, you know, so that they can become owners of the service housing, so that they don't use this service housing for occupation purposes. I would ask the military to support this issue, and so would the law enforcement. And during the technical legal process, form this with a separate article. And the 13th article, I emphasize once again, will be drafted as we have made a decision, a separate law that will be clearly stated in it. So, dear colleagues, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u150	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m0.u151	Of course, except for those who have betrayed their oaths. For protocol. I fully confirm this, only those that will be approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the Public Prosecutor's Office, or the Security Service, or the Ministry of Defense, so much the better. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will now make a very responsible decision. All national deputies please come to the hall and make an appropriate announcement. Dear colleagues near the column, I beg you, please sit down and we will now take a very serious question and vote. David Vajajevic, please take your seat. I already asked the secretary to call. Please make a loud call, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support with all the regulations and additions that I have mentioned at the end, which I have pointed out, the Minister of Justice, please support the bill in the second reading and in general. 4473. Please, colleagues, let us be more responsible for our responsibilities. Please support Project 4473-1 on second reading as a whole. Please vote. [[2:04:02]] For 228 Decision taken. I thank the national deputies for their acceptance. Wait a minute. Let's not break up, dear fellows. There was an offer to hold a closed meeting tomorrow. Please, colleagues, take your seats. In order for us to hold a closed meeting tomorrow, we must vote in accordance with our Rules. Therefore, I would like to ask the honourable national deputies to support the proposal of the leaders of the MP factions and groups of all, by the way, to hold a closed meeting tomorrow on the protection of the State and the protection of the constitutional system, that is, the State's security of our cocaine. Please support this proposal and vote. [[14:04:57]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you for your work. At 16 p.m., I ask all the deputies to come together to the hall so that we can work effectively and make up the time we spent on the negotiation process. At 4 p.m., the Supreme Council will continue its work. Thank you.
