ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Negotiations between faction leaders continue. Today, there are major issues that are not agreed upon. This raises the issue of opposition -- to continue negotiations between the majority and the opposition, between the opposition and the authorities. I think that round table that was launched by the new year, it really should continue its work, and we will continue the negotiation process. But there are five national MPs in the hall who are elected to major districts. They want them to become legitimate national deputies so that they can fulfill the promises they made to their electorate, to carry out those programs that were supported by the electorate. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to register. [[10:39:51]] There were 254 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National MPs, on 9 and 13 January 2014, the Central Electoral Commission registered Ukrainian National Deputies elected for the re-election of Ukrainian National Deputies on 15 December 2013 in one-man election districts: District number 197 – District number Leonid Mikolajovic; District No. 223 – Pilipisin Viktor Petrovic; District No. 94 – Badajova Ruslana Gennadiyovich; District No. 132 – District No. 132 – District Mikola Petrovic and District No. 194 – Flood Mikhail Mihajlovich. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. So to make an oath, I invite the Ukrainian national deputy Leonid Mikolaiovich Dacenka. Please. Where is he? I'm asking you to turn on the microphone on the rostrum. Do you have a Dacenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine, Dacenko. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u3	Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Swear to God. Unplug the microphone on the stand. Victor Petrovich Pilpisin, a Ukrainian national deputy, is invited to take the oath. Please. Well, let's go to the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, Victor Petrovich, to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u4	It's an oath. I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. Taking care of the welfare of the country, the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of fellow countrymen. People’s MP, Philippesin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u5	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Rusla Hennadijovich Badajov, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you. National deputy of Ukraine Badajav.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u7	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Petrovich Kruglov, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. People's deputy Kruglov Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u9	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikhailo Mikhailović, is invited to make an oath. Please. Turn the microphone on on the stand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailo Floodski
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the new national deputies and wish them success. [[Applause]] I'm calling it a break. The faction leaders are requested to enter the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The break is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-15-m0.u12	Today, on our schedule of work, I ask you to focus on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomorrow, you know, the first question we've adopted with you is the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree to consider the draft State Budget Act of Ukraine for 2014. So I'll invite you to the 10 o'clock session room tomorrow. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And the leaders, the leadership of the Supreme Council, the leadership of the factions will continue to reconcile the issues on which there are differences, and we will continue to consult. Good-bye, good-bye, tomorrow, 10 o'clock.
