ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Traditionally, I'm informing you that today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Bagraev Mikli Georgiyovich and Baysarov Leonidas Volodymyrovich Please welcome your distinguished colleagues. [[Applause]] I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Colleagues, sit down and take your seats. I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. [[10:04:31]] There were 295 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Dear colleagues, we are now starting work on the Order for Amendments to the Supreme Council Regulations on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call. Now, honourable colleagues, considering that even this morning many of our colleagues have tried to take some new initiatives to change the committee or to move from one committee to another, or to include many non-committee deputies and elected to the Supreme Council, I will ask one of the authors of the draft decision – Andrija Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk to report the decision to the full extent that all representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions, as well as the non-fractional national MPs, can clearly get information on the final content of this project. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You know, over the last period of time, a lot of new deputies have taken an oath, and according to the Rules, the MP has to work on the committee. We have balanced all statements made by deputies according to the quotas of factions on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, agreed with all factions of the draft Order, and for your consideration is proposed Decree No. 4121a, introduced by all factions of Parliament, with the following content: Order to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to make the following changes to paragraph 6 of the Supreme Council Regulation of 25 December 2012 on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call. First. Select the first deputy, deputy head, secretary of the relevant committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene the following national deputies: Researcher Ruslan Henadaiyovich, National MP, member of the Group "Supreme European Ukraine" as deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, dismissing from office the national deputy of Ukraine Jeremeyev Igor Mironović; Kurinj Vladimir Kostinović, member of the Faction UDA, elect the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs; The Pharyon Irina Dmitrovna, a member of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, choose the first deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education; The Uriya Vasilovich, a member of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, is the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, releasing him as a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations; Bondarczuk Oleg Volodymyrovic, a member of the Freedom faction, is the first deputy head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice. The second paragraph of the decree. Select the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene the following national deputies: Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, a member of the Fatherskin faction, is a member of the Committee on Fuel Energy; Hanchukova Aleksandra Kostinović, a member of the Communist Party faction, a member of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption; Griniva Igor Aleksiyovich, a member of the Fatherland faction, is a member of the Committee on Information and Information Technology; The tribute of Leonid Mikolaiovich, a member of the Fatherland faction, is a member of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations; Demiduk Vasil Haritonović, member of the Communist Party of Ukraine, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, member of the Committee on Legislative Protection; Kalgan's Helen Valeriyovna, a member of the Fatherskina faction, is a member of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council; Nikola Petrovich, a member of the Economic Development Group, is a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice; Krutiya Vitali Ivanovich, a member of the Faction Impact, is a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information; Ledovian Olen Volodymyrovna, a member of the Fatherskina faction, is a member of the Committee on the Rules of Deputies of Ethics and the provision of the Supreme Council. Marjana Romanović, a member of the Freedom faction, is a member of the Legal Policy Committee; Makula Leonid Jakovic, a member of the Fatherskina faction, is a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice; Merikova Vadim Ivanovich, a member of the Fatherland faction, is a member of the Committee on Economic Policy; Novinski Vadim Vladislavovich, member of the faction of the Party of the Regions, member of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour; Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich, member of the Freedom faction, member of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MP ethics and Security of the Supreme Council; Pavelska Rostislav Mikolaiovich, member of the Impact faction, is a member of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, releasing him as a member of the Committee on Science and Education; Philippe Victor Petrovich, a member of the "Supreme European Ukraine" Group, is a member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice; Flooder Mikhail Mikhailovich, a member of the "Supreme European Ukraine" Group, is a member of the Committee on Culture; Raupova Rustam Burhanović, a member of the Strike faction, is a member of the National Security and Defence Committee, releasing him as a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information; Revenka Anatolia Dmitrovitch, member of the Strike faction, is a member of the Committee on Science and Education; Fishery by Vladimir Vasilovich, member of the faction of the Party of the Regions, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; Stadniczuk Roman Vasilovich, non-fractional member of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice; Firsova Jegora Pavlovich, member of the Impact faction, is a member of the Tax and Customs Policy Committee; Furman Alexi Yuriovich, a member of the Freedom faction, is a member of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Policy; Black Galina Mikhaylovna, member of the Freedom faction, member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information; Ms. Alexander Mikolaiovich, a member of the Fatherland faction, is a member of the Committee on Science and Education; Shewchenka Alexander Leonidovich, a non-fractional member of the Committee on Economic Policy; Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, a member of the Fatherland faction, is a member of the Committee on Transport and Communications; Ilyashenko, a national deputy, a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention. Please support this decision on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, is there a willingness to vote? There's a ready one. Please take your seats. Sit down, dear fellows, sit down. Then you'll have a meeting during the break. Please take your seats. And support the Decision Project. Guys, I can't wait for everyone to get elected. Please. Deputies from Liberty, call your colleagues to come to the hall. Please, dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, the project has a registration number 4121a, it's a technical issue, but it's important that all national MPs in accordance with current legislation can not only have a mandate but also work on the committees of the Supreme Council, as required by current legislation. Dear colleagues, just the MPs from Liberty say they're meeting with high-ranking applicants right now. And they ask for a few minutes to reach the hall. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Ivanchuk. There is another amendment to this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! And for the transcript, I would like to say that the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is asking the People's People's Deputy to transfer from the Committee of Ecology to social politics and the Peacekeeper to the Committee of Ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u5	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, taking into account the proposal made by the national deputy Ivanchuk, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Decree 4121a as a basis and as a whole. Please, Your Honor, vote as a basis and as a whole. [[10:15:39]] For 235 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 68, Party of Regions – 4, Impact – 34, Economic Development – 35, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, Freedom – 0, Company – 26, non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the members of the Freedom faction. I ask you very much, contact your colleagues to come, they'll come. Because right now we're going to be looking at very important, strategically important issues for our country. And that's why the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, is present. Let's welcome him, dear fellows. [[Applause]] And that's why I'm asking that all the people's deputies be in the room now to make responsible, important decisions. I'm asking the Secretaries to make an announcement in the auditorium so that we can make a decision right now. Let me remind you, right now we're going to be looking at issues that need to be included in the agenda. But the government is asking that the issues that we will include in the agenda, which are of vital importance to the country and which we need to consider immediately so that we can accept in the first reading. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u6	Oleg Tuggnibok faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Of course, we have the agenda and we have to go in this order of the day and work positively and vote. But today, the whole Ukrainian society is outraged not only by the situation that is currently taking place in the East, it is our primary problem, but also by the fact that, for unclear or perhaps understandable reasons, we don't have a system of illustrating judges. How could it be that Ovcharenko returned to the Constitutional Court? I think we need to put a stop to any day-to-day discussion process and solve all of our legal possibilities or other possibilities to stop that vachanal, the personnel vachanal that is now being created in Ukraine. If this continues, the old Yanukovchevan personnel will embrace positions in various structures, the highest judicial, executive and legislative structures in Ukraine, it will be a complete disaster, Mr. Head. Let's get it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u7	Thank you for the offer, dear colleagues. This is, indeed, a serious problem: the Ukrainian judiciary, which, you know, liberates criminals, makes unjust decisions, unfortunately, have a very high corrupt component. And the only thing that respectable colleagues are simply discussing this issue without really working out projects to solve this problem is probably a waste of time. So let's assign factions, first of all, I'm asking the factions of the coalition to propose to a working group of representatives who are aware of this very important issue. And this working group of two factions and coalition representatives could have worked up to 12 hours when we had a break, a proposal on how to act in this situation. Moreover, I also invite the Minister of Justice to make proposals from the government on this issue. Dear colleagues, we already have one. We don't have a discussion today, please. We've got honorary colleagues on the agenda, I'll remind you. So we're starting to consider very important issues. This is primarily government proposals that relate to Ukraine's energy security. You know, honourable national MPs, that against our country, besides the war in the East, Russia is waging an energy war. And it's the protection of our country from this aggression -- that's exactly what the Cabinet of Ministers has to do with the immediate consideration of several legislative acts. Arsenius Petrovich, who will report from the government? Dear colleagues, the word is given to Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk. And now two drafts of these analytics can we do that? Okay. First of all, this is the matter of the Law (register No. 4116a). This is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on reforming the administration system of Ukraine's single gas transport system. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u8	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Reverend Mr. Head! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regularly informs the Supreme Council of Ukraine about what is happening in the country's energy market, what measures are being taken to stabilize the situation of negotiations with Russia's Gazprom company and how we will continue to provide energy for Ukraine and the tiredness of the European Union. 3 numbers here, in Parliament's walls, I told you about the negotiations. And then there was also the assumption that there would be attempts to discredit the Ukrainian gas transport system, there would be diversions to legitimize the so-called South Stream, this is one of the gas stations that are trying to build around Ukraine, and to undermine Ukraine's reputation as a reliable transitor. And this happened two days ago, when there was an explosion in Poltav district at the Urengoy-Pomara-Uzhgrad gas station. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs is looking at one of the key versions. One of the key versions of the IMF data is a diversion and it's a deliberate gastropod. In doing so, we have managed to secure the transport of gas to the European Union, of course the loss. 10 million cubic meters of gas. That's a lot of money, but despite that, we've secured gas supplies to the member states of the European Union. Now we've sent a government delegation to Brussels and there's been negotiations to increase the turnaround in Ukraine. And in order for us to be able to provide the whole gas supply, on the one hand, we need a reverse, on the other hand, we need an honest market, not a political, not a discriminatory agreement with Russia's Gazprom, and an appropriate price. As far as we're concerned. Now, honourable Members of Parliament, transporting gas to Ukraine's territory for the purposes of the European Union is not done on the basis of a contract that is between Ukraine and the European Union, but on the basis of a contract that is between Naftogaz and Gazprom. We believe that this scheme should change and the gas transfer point should move from the western border of Ukraine to the eastern border of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to the operation of the gas transport system. We need to decide on the modernisation and joint operation of the Ukrainian gas transport system. What does the government of Ukraine offer? The Government of Ukraine is proposing according to our obligations as a country that has signed the Energy Charter as a country that is a member of the European Energy Community and is implementing the Third Energy Package, to make a number of decisions that will create a new model for the functioning of the energy market. What is it? First. The Ukrainian gas transport system remains state property. The other one. Ukrainian gas depots also remain state property. Third. An operator is created to meet the requirements of the Third Energy Package. Four. The ownership of the company operators, namely, the controlling package of the company's shares, belongs exclusively to the State of Ukraine. Four. 49 percent of the shares of this company can be exclusively for gas transport companies of the member states of the European Union and they must be members of the European Energy Community and the United States if such companies are properly certified energy companies. What does this give us? The first is that it allows us to modernise and invest in Ukrainian GTS. The second is that it allows us to increase the capitalisation of the Ukrainian gas transport system, which remains a state property. Third, this allows us to have new conditions for transporting Russian natural gas. Fourthly, this allows us to stop the construction of the southern flow and to correct all the volumes that were planned on the southern flow through the Ukrainian gas transport system, as the European Union member countries will first be interested. This is an extremely important document, which is a real step towards the formation of Ukrainian energy independence, the adaptation of Ukraine to the requirements of the European Union, the involvement of investors in Ukraine from the European Union and the United States, and Ukraine to become a transit state that cannot be bypassed, which guarantees the continuity of transit, which is not by Russia's Gazprom, but which makes it possible to provide Europe with gas that enables it to develop the Ukrainian energy system. For this bill, we ask Parliament to vote on the basis as a whole. As far as Bill 4117a is concerned. I have negotiated with the faction leaders and I support voting for this bill only in the first reading. As the faction has a lot of questions and suggestions for this bill. What's in the special period bill in the fuel-energy complex? It is possible that if there is a threat to Ukraine's security of energy supply, and today it is, if there is a disconnection from the supply of natural gas or any other energy products, it is possible to introduce a special state into the energy market -- the so-called state of emergency in energy. When a state of emergency is introduced in energy, the government is empowered to control both consumption and supply of energy resources; to establish special procedures for both procurement and sales, including natural gas and other energy products; and to impose sanctions. And the main purpose of the bill is to enable the executive branch of power to manage the energy market in an extraordinary way to provide people and businesses with minimum capacity to keep the country floating. Therefore, I ask the honourable Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading and in favour of the reduced procedure in the next plenary week, adopted by this bill as a whole. The country's honourable national deputies, these two laws, are for the first time in 20 years the real steps towards building the nation's energy independence, the steps to ensure that the Ukrainian energy and gas transport system becomes the guarantor of the continuity of transit and income for the Ukrainian State, which everyone has talked about, but never done. That is why I ask members of Parliament to support Ukraine's energy independence and vote in favour of these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Now we're going to put this law in order of day, one and the other, and then we're going to discuss these legislations. I'll give you a chance to come out of this. Please, Your Honor, this is a very serious question. Let's put it in the agenda and then we can talk about it. Let's put it in the agenda and try to talk about it. Please be seated in your workplaces, dear colleagues. Please include the "Council" system and support the government's proposal to include legislative acts 4116a, 4117a and 4117a-1 in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal and vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote on your jobs. [[10:31:26]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is about the energy danger of the government. By factions, please show me. 68 – Fatherland, 1 – Party of Regions, 34 – Impact, Economic Development – 24, Sovereign, European Ukraine – 3, Freedom – 20, Company – 0, non-fractional – 26. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign off on the factions one minute at a time. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u10	The strike faction will, of course, support this bill, because... Indeed, we are talking about the energy independence of our nation and the efficient use of our gas transport system. So please go back to that question. All the nuances there can be discussed in this discussion. Please support this bill for the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Hellaway, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u12	May I have the floor of the MP to the Peacekeeper?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u13	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u14	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It is clear that Freedom can support the introduction, I emphasize, of these bills in the agenda. But I'm sorry, because things have changed in the country, our position hasn't changed. We cannot allow the actual privatization of the gas transport system, as we call it. Because in that bill, which is prescribed, and where the committee was just voting yesterday, the government representative didn't know the answers, we're not ready to support it in that way. Because in fact the operator becomes the owner and all the financial results are in his own pocket, and the country is left with iron, which is whether or not the operator invests in the reconstruction, is a huge question. And in terms of operators, one hundred percent is going to be Gazprom, because he's in everybody, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Donny, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u16	We have two positions. On the one hand, we understand very well how much Ukraine is in a difficult economic situation right now, and certainly the government is looking for any way to improve this economic situation. On the other hand, we also understand that there are few liquids. The high-end goods that remained in Ukraine are a gas transport network. And so we know that most oligarchs in Ukraine have been profiting from untransparent relationships in the energy transport network, and now such an accelerated regime without public discussion is disturbing. In our view, more transparent government action, discussion with experts, with the public, and then back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u17	Bezbach National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u18	I'd like to give the floor to Dr. Martovitzki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Today, under the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a draft Law on a Special Period in a Fuel Energy Complex was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose Project No.4117. is proposed for the introduction of restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms, except for military status, state of emergency or for the President's decision on mobilization to be supplemented by a reason – I pay attention! – restrictions on energy supply in Ukraine. Therefore, I stress that the management of Ukraine’s gas complex, the restriction of some consumers in the use of natural gas, or the granting of Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers extracurricular rights to the purchase of all the gas produced in Ukraine. This does not require a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u21	National MP Calchenko, please. "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u22	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u23	Please turn on Sergei Sobolev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u24	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. You've noticed that our faction has supported inclusion in the agenda. But I am addressing the Prime Minister. Arsenius Petrovich, please point out that this is not the privatization of these highways and gas shelters. It's a transfer to management, and that's the way we're ready to support it. We voted and now we vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u25	National MP Simonenko, Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u26	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. The company will not vote in favour of this decision, and we consider this project to be the surrender of the national interests of the State of Ukraine. I would like to draw everyone's attention once again that the process that was previously related to the definition of Ukraine's strategic interests in cooperation, particularly with the Russian Federation on the use of this gas transport system, has concluded that this system will in fact be lost to us. This issue will further exacerbate the negotiating process primarily on gas supplies to Ukraine for the Ukrainian consumer. The Ukrainian authorities do not reply that they will be with the chemical industries of Ukraine tomorrow. These are tens of thousands of businesses that are working, and they're going to be out of a job. What will happen to the energy that uses gas for, above all, electricity in the context of the Donbass War and the lack of energy coal. It's a heat failure. What's going to happen to the metallurgy that gives us the ability to have a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u27	People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Our MP group fully shares the concern of the Cabinet of Ministers about the gas situation. We support the Prime Minister's position on the inclusion of draft legislation in the agenda and support that they should be put to the vote for the first reading. And in general, separate bills, but the point is that we are still in consultation on these personnel issues that are scheduled to be considered today, so as soon as only our deputies from our group are fit, we ask that we put them to the vote again and support the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u30	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! First, for the first time, the government of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine want to create a transparent gas transport system in Ukrainian territory, and that's what we need, from non-fractionals, I say that we fully support it, first. Secondly, I'd like to ask my colleagues to make sure that you have a pipe that goes into the territory of Ukraine, not called the acquisition of Ukraine, let's make sure that the acquisition of Ukraine is an aerospace complex, IT technology, high pharmaceutical companies, high technology. And the pipe, which may be empty, as we already have a few examples, when the pipe is empty and rusted, nobody needs it at all. But still, I'd like to take the government into account, either by voice, or by second reading, to make proposals that we don't have a monopoly, if we give 49 percent to someone, so that it is, or 3 or 4 companies, desirable from different European countries, and that the domestic energy building complex is involved in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Before giving the floor to the Prime Minister, I would like to welcome Commissioner Fulle of the European Union, who is leading the issue of European integration, to welcome you, dear colleagues. [[Applause]] He is also accompanied by the Ambassador of the European Union, Mr. Tombinsky. Let's welcome him, too. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask after we have exchanged positions between our factions and the MPs, to allow the Prime Minister to comment and then to decide on the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I very much ask all Ukrainian national MPs who express positions that comment on the law at least to read this law. The Ukrainian gas transport system was, is and remains state property. But if anyone wants to leave the Ukrainian gas transport system with only a metal scrapper, then they will not vote in favour of this law. I'll try to explain again. The pipe, along with the gas shelters, is exclusively 100 percent property of the Ukrainian state. No question, no privatization even stands. The other one. There is now no operator of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System that meets the criteria of the European Union and has the money to invest in the modernisation of the GTS. It's a state company that's just been mixed up in money laundering equipment for the last 20 years. We propose, as required by the Third Energy Package and sound economic logic. Based on 100 percent of government property, to create an operating company that will be owned, 51 percent is state property, it's a control package; 49 percent belongs exclusively to European Union member countries that are members of the Energy Community or US companies certified in the energy market. And it's very important that it says "property" and "controllable." So that no other country can take ownership through the back door. The most important element of this is that if Europeans enter this operating company, Russia will not build the South Stream. If this law is not passed, there will be a salute in the Kremlin! Because they will know that they have a fully-open door for the construction of the South Stream. And the power of the Ukrainian GTS, think of it as a total of 140 billion cubic meters of gas per year. We jumped 122. Now we're rolling 80. If the South Stream is built and it's built, if this law isn't voted, then at best we're going to pump 40 to 50 billion cubic meters of gas. And from the budget, we're going to have to do Russian gas transport. It's very simple to understand arithmetic. And stop speculating political ones for privatization, for something that doesn't fit in reality. Read the laws and do not lie to the Ukrainian people. The one who wants to make a metal gun out of a Ukrainian pipe, the one who wants to make Russia a Russian power to build a southern flow, the one who doesn't vote against Ukraine being a key transit state -- the one who doesn't vote for it. And whoever wants the Ukrainian GTS to make money, to supply gas to Europe, to modernize it, and to make Ukraine a player in the energy market, they will support the law, and then we will do it. And in the end, let's make Ukraine a key player, not the European energy market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats right now. Dear colleagues, this is a very important issue for our country, a very important one. I am asking without political speculation, and I am responsible for the information of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and I am now in the process of identifying myself. Let's vote on each law separately. To be determined now for the inclusion in the agenda of our session of a bill (registration number 4116a) on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reform of the system of administration of Ukraine's only gas transport system. Dear colleagues, please include the "Council" system and determine whether or not to support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:46:54]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions. Parenthood – 71, regions – 0, hit – 39, 33 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 1, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. I'd like to ask the Sovereign European Ukraine representative. Mr. Jeremeyev, please have a word. Because your faction does not allow you to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u34	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The issue of the gas transport system is one of the important issues in the state of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. And you know that every Supreme Council has approached this issue. And we stand in the position that the question of discussion: who will enter the consortium, which companies will enter the consortium, on which principles should be discussed publicly. And when that question comes into the hall, we should know about it already. And today, in one day, making such an important decision is very difficult. So we would ask that this issue be referred to, for example, as discussed, and then as a decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we are now voting for inclusion in the agenda. We don't vote in general. Please, Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u36	Dear Lord of the faction! It is difficult to discuss a bill if you refuse to even include it in the agenda. It is difficult to involve European companies in investment if such a bill is not adopted. I want to officially state the position of the Government of Ukraine. We suggest that the decision to involve investors in an operating company be confirmed by Parliament's decision. We'll come here to the Supreme Council after the adoption of the law, bring in companies from the European Union and the United States that will win public tenders. And here in Parliament we will vote on the decision. Because investors are interested in guarantees. And Parliament's vote on the involvement of these investors is another additional step to make them invest more so that the loans are cheaper and the Ukrainian GTS is stable and reliable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u37	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any secret that our gas transport system needs billions of dollars. And most importantly, today is the resource that will enable us to have real independence. We can have this independence in cooperation with the European Union, with the United States of America and with other civilized countries that are willing to help us keep it and make money on it. At the same time, many, Mr. Prime Minister, have noted that the government will try to set up companies that do not suit the interests of Ukraine. And so I think that the Prime Minister's proposal for Parliament to agree and ratify agreements on cooperation with the world partners is a proposal that will enable it to support this law. I'm calling on my fellow MPs to support this law, which will give us real energy independence and opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the national deputy Jeremeyev, the leader of the "Supreme European Ukraine" faction, asks to explain the faction's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u40	Dear Head, dear Mr. Prime Minister, the distinguished Ukrainian people! There are so many complaints to this Supreme Council. This Supreme Council has been polluted every day for various decisions and decisions made over the past three years. And you know very well what it is to create a consortium and how this Supreme Council came out, as soon as that question was raised. But we are ready, our "North European Ukraine" faction insists that this issue should be public and open. The Prime Minister said that every company that would be offered to participate in the consortium would be given public hearings and would speak openly in the Supreme Council Hall. If that's what it's all about. Now it's being written into this law that it's going to be public reading, that we're going to know public companies, then the Sovereign European Ukraine is voting today for inclusion in the order of the daily law. And I think it's the right decision, we have 46 million people behind us, and I don't want to, and our factions don't want to click in the districts and in the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the faction has changed its position. I feel like we can make a decision right now. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take the matter very seriously. This is a question of the energy security of our country -- it is a question of protecting the end of Ukraine from the aggression of the Russian Federation. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda, including in the law those proposals on openness and parliamentary consideration of a deal that will be concluded with partners. Prime Minister, please confirm this position for the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u42	I want to re-declare and confirm the position of the Ukrainian government. The Ukrainian people need to know who we involve as an investor in the modernization and operation of the Ukrainian gas transport system. These should be the key publicly-known European and American companies that should come to Parliament, declare their intentions, report to the people of Ukraine and to Parliament, get consent and get guarantees. That's why I'm saying again: we're purely for the very transparent process.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Please include in the agenda the draft Law (register No. 4116). Please, Your Honor, sit in your seats, a very responsible question and support the inclusion of this law in the order of the day by voting. Please vote. [[10:54:29]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We can immediately adopt this law, taking into account this proposal. Is that like a greeting or something? [[B in m in s a l in]] First reading. Lithuania's Volodymyr Mikhailovich, give us a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u44	Dear Head! Dear Prime Minister of Ukraine! If the decision is not put to the vote, this law should set out a rule that "the functions of the operator of the Single Energy System of Ukraine may be secured by the owner, the founder and owner of which can be performed exclusively by the State or the State owns at least 51 per cent of corporate rights, and the legal person, the legal persons who belong and are controlled by the residents of the countries", followed by the text: ". provided that the Supreme Council of Ukraine listens to these companies clearly and gives them consent to work with the Ukrainian gas transport system." And a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u45	Arsenius Petrovich, can we with this right pass the law as a whole? All right, first reading. In the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u46	There is an offer to accept it in the first reading and to work on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u47	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u48	So, the Honourable Prime Minister, the Honourable People's Deputies, has gathered several thousand men to the Supreme Council who insist on the adoption of Law 4895.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, this is not the issue we are discussing. I'll give you a chance to say after you've discussed this. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! I want to tell you very simple and understandable things. The people who, after the adoption of this law, will have the right to make any decisions in the system of the whole of Ukraine, are today's Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Sales, who has demanded gas contracts that the whole of the Cabinet has not given the right to sign, and Mr. Igor Didenko, who signed the Agreement with Russia on low tariffs for gas transport through Ukraine. It's madness to make a scheme under which the BET and these thieves will run the entire TEC without any control. So it's only a complete review of these laws by Parliament, by the profile committees, and not taking this black cat in a bag in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, please, the National MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u52	Sobolje, Fatherland. It seems to me that the United States government and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are crying not only at the Furtash, which is hiding in Austria, but at several other persons who are his voice. So I have a proposal: to vote in the first reading for this law, and to continue working on it, and to put it to the vote directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u53	National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u54	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, we're not selling pigs, we're now deciding the fate of Ukraine's gas transport system. So let us ask the Ukrainians, do they support this bill in the first reading? For starters, we put the committee on a fire yesterday, we put it to a vote. Well, can we count on people's opinions? Because, for example, we have a program for protecting Ukrainians, there is a definite anti-privatisation of any form of equity or any other kind of gas transport system in Ukraine. What are we talking about? We ask people, we vote, we support them. But people’s opinion cannot be taken into account! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please, the Zarubinsky National Deputy, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this discussion and the emotions that prevail in the hall are caused by the very procedure of this bill. Last night, a meeting of a professional committee, literally warm, distributed pages of the bill. No one's seen him. We all know very well that investment is needed. It is a good thing that the bill states that these are residents of the EU, the Energy Community and the United States. And the Prime Minister rightly says that these are companies that have universal authority, these are really serious companies. But, Your Honor, I'm explaining to you why this is happening. You can't cheat everything into war. Parliament has to remain a parliament. The public needs to be consulted. Well, isn't that right? And the explanatory note says in paragraph 8: "The bill does not need public consultation." How can you do that, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u57	Please, Your Honor, let's give you a chance right now, one minute to the Prime Minister. And we're going to make decisions about further consideration of this issue. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Government strongly supports the full procedure for reviewing the bill. First of all, let me thank you for the fact that 246 people's deputies of Ukraine have supported the state's energy independence and have incorporated the bill into the agenda -- this is an important step forward. The other one. There is a procedure and we are ready to have a public discussion on all committees, and I will also report to the Ukrainian people in order to adopt the bill in the first and second readings. So I ask, I ask the committee to consider the bill, to bring it back to Parliament for consideration as a whole. Is it supported by such respectable colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u59	Supported. Supported by the People’s Deputies. We will not be discussing this issue now in order for it to be seriously worked out on the committee, so that we can discuss it publicly and with the public, so that the information government will ensure that the issue is addressed and clarified – a very important issue for the energy security of our country. And so, dear fellows, let's take a chance on this issue today. Is it supported? Supported. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question we need to include in the agenda of the Prime Minister is the draft Law on a Special Period in the Fuel-Energy Complex of Ukraine (4117a) and is alternative law No4117a-1 (Deputy). Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of this matter. Please, dear fellows. For, for, for, for, [[11:02:27]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions. 71 – "The Fatherland", 0 – regions, "The Strike" – 38, 33 – "The Economic Development", "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 2.34 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, 25 – non-fractional. National Deputy Jeromew, please. The coalition is voting. Dear colleagues, let's support inclusion in the agenda. It's not in the first, it's not in the second, it's not in the third, it's in the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u60	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear Arsenius Petrovich, national deputies, Ukrainian people! A few weeks ago, you and I decided that we needed to make a decision immediately in time of war so that the Ministry of Defense could immediately purchase oil products and everything else -- technology -- in order to provide the army. As a result. Careful! As a result, a tender was conducted in Odessa, where the technical and material part was purchased twice as expensive. Today, we are proposing a state of emergency in order to make decisions on all energy packages and on all energy activities by hand. Let's discuss this so that we can make the right decision. If we have such an emergency today, let us introduce and make such decisions accordingly, not to carry out a medical emergency, a state of emergency in education.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! What we have is an extraordinary state of energy, it is you who should applaud not make a statement, but the path of Vladimir Vladimirovich for the extraordinary state of energy in Ukraine, which is blocked by the Russian Federation. There is aggression against us! If you don't know it, dear colleagues, turn on the TV, any program, and you'll find out! Please, the Prime Minister is a brief comment, and we will make a final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head and National MPs! Once again, I ask a very big request. I understand that members of Parliament are very busy, but please read the bill. This bill provides an opportunity to introduce a state of emergency in the event that energy supplies for Ukraine are being cut off. How can we control the energy system if we don't have any influence? There will be no bill, then four months from now, honourable colleagues will be responsible for the lack of light and gas in the homes of those who oppose the bill. The government is now taking responsibility for these things. Don't worry that there's a bill that says that all of Ukrainian's own gas, in the event of an emergency, should go solely to the needs of the population as decided by the government. What did you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! I'm once again making a proposal for inclusion, I'm stressing, not acceptance, but inclusion in the agenda of this important issue. And I'd like you, my dear colleagues, to read the draft laws before you comment on them. Please, dear fellows. It's about protecting our population, only at a time when the Russian Federation shuts down the gas from Ukraine. And there has to be a willingness for that. Please, Your Honor, vote. I'll show you by factions then who votes. Let's get into the order of the day. [[11:06:18]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report to the Prime Minister and we will move on to an important issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u64	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable Members of Parliament! I'm willing to report all the factions on these bills. We'll hold a public, once again, government meeting. I invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will be specially conducted on two drafts. This is our joint task with you: to have a strong gas transport system, to have a strong impact in the European Union on energy transit and to provide Ukraine with energy resources. Thank you for supporting the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! We are now approaching the time frame for human resources, prior to consideration of personnel issues, two factions of communists and regionals, and have asked for a 15-minute recess for consultations. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin our work in 11 hours, 25 minutes. Please don't be late. It's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are moving on to human resources issues and the first of them, this is the appointment of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I will remind you that this issue is being considered in the presence of the President of Ukraine, and I invite you to the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. () [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 25, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for granting approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the Attorney-General of Ukraine. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 11, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council the appointment of Vitali Grigorovich Jaremi as Attorney General of Ukraine. The materials are distributed to all national deputies. The President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to represent the candidate for this high office. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u67	Dear national MPs, dear friends! I have the honour to be present at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to begin the work process of constructive interaction between the head of state and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I really wanted you and I to keep the atmosphere that prevailed in this room two weeks ago during the inauguration. The whole world was impressed by the ways in which we demonstrated cooperation. In the presidential election this morning, nearly 55 percent of Ukrainian citizens supported my program. I haven't talked about this once during the campaign, and the second time in this rostrum, I'm stressing my commitment to the parliamentary-presidential republic. [[Applause]] No usurpation of power is needed today by the country. The current edition of the Basic Law of our country gives me, as President, an entirely sufficient amount of authority, including the personnel needed to resolve the promises made to the Ukrainian people. Today I have come to you with the first human resources proposals to be implemented by our joint competence. I'd rather start with any discussion of the predecessors of these candidates. These are the real men in charge of the Attorney General's Office, the National Bank. They took up their positions in conditions close to catastrophic ones. And to keep the country, they all did what they could, each in their positions. For some objective reason, they were unable to do something. But in order to fulfill my obligations to millions and millions of voters, whose will I have been held responsible for the country, I would like to form a team of patriots, professionals, thinkers. Now we're just starting this process with you. And today, for the first time, I assure you, it's not the last time I've come to you with a staff proposal. As for other decisions, they will. There is an intense process of searching for candidates who are able to perform extraordinary tasks in the extraordinary conditions that have now taken place in Ukraine. At the same time, the Supreme Council is being tested today for our ability to cooperate, for the ability to count with the newly demonstrated will of the electorate, for the ability of the entire political elite of Ukraine to consolidate. I am confident that we can demonstrate this for the sake of the peace and rescue of Ukraine. I hope that together today we will set a positive precedent for solving human resources problems, which will be a solid basis for further cooperation between the President, the Supreme Council and the Government of our State. Then I propose to your consideration of Vitalia Jarema. [[Applause]] Please accept his appointment as Attorney General of Ukraine. To be honest, I've been looking at different candidates. There was a judge, there was a lawyer, and he decided to stop at law enforcement. Because not being present in these conditions of writing in the employment book "Prosecutor's employee" is more of an advantage than a flaw. [[Applause]] To reform this system, not to be a victim of it, can only a person outside this system of things who is uneducated by it and who is not obliged to do so. At the same time, Vitaly Jarem is an experienced human rights defender who has passed through Maidan purgatory through the grip of coordination of law enforcement bodies during recent events in Ukraine. If you, honourable national deputies, agree to appoint Mr. Jarem as Attorney General, today, I am sure, will be a black day for all Ukrainian crime, both organized and not very, for all those who are not in compliance with the law and conscience. [[Applause]] I also wanted to stress separately that the role of the Attorney General in the fight against corruption is crucial. We made a commitment to the entire nation to overcome corruption in the country immediately. And the fight against corruption is also an important and priority issue for people, as is the fight for peace. The people understand that without fighting corruption any movement of the country forward will be blocked, I understand that. And as a guide and symbolic wish to Vitalia Grigorovitch, my favorite quote by the author of "Singapur Wonder" Lee Kuan Yu. "How to start a fight against corruption. Start by planting three of your friends. You know exactly why, they know what the people will believe you about." [[Applause]] And the last. It's very important. Attention! It is vital not to delay the adoption of the new Law on Public Prosecutions. I am ready to participate in the discussion and to adopt a new European Law on Public Prosecutions, which we together will make the Attorney General's Office a real European body. I sincerely ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, is there a desire to vote without discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's still give Vitalia Jaremi a word. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote? Do we know Vitaly Grigorovitch? Should we? Vote? Vote. Dear colleagues, the inspiration in the hall to vote. And then the opposition will applaud, I think, the election of Vitaly Jaremi. Dear colleagues, at the request of the people's deputies, I am voting on the draft Decree (registration number 4113a) to grant approval for the appointment of the President of Ukraine, Vitalia Grigorovich Jaremi, as Attorney General of Ukraine. Please support the vote, please vote. [[11:39:45]] For 329 Decision taken. Hello! [[Applause]] Vitaly Grigorovich, briefly, two words. The factions ask for a vote, 81 - Fatherland, 13 - Impact - 41, 37 - Economic Development, 35 - Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom - 35, Companies - 0, non-fractional - 87. Please, Vitaly Grigorovitch. Attorney General of Ukraine Vitaly Jarem.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u69	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable deputies! I want to say thank you and say that I will do my best to ensure that there is peace, peace, and the rule of law always prevail in our country. I'll do everything I can to protect people from criminal assault. And I want to pay my respects to the acting prosecutor, to Igor Olegovich, who, during the period of Knaczyk, Oleg Igorwicz, apologize for the difficult time for our state to carry out its duties and direct the prosecutor’s office to fight crime. Thank you very much again!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u70	Thank you, Vitaly Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Attorney-General cannot combine his office with other functions properly and in the public authorities. That's why Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenuk filed for the release of Jaremy Vitali Grigorovitch as First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Please support the ruling on the release of Jaremy Vitali Grigorovitch from the post of First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please support the vote. Please vote. [[11:42:03]] For 331 Decision taken. Thank you. So we would always, dear colleagues, vote in favour of all matters. Dear colleagues! These are not all personnel issues yet. We need to consider the application of the President of Ukraine for the discharge of the foreign minister, Andrija Bogdanović Deszczytza. [[Applause]] I think we respect Andrija Bogdanovich, we welcome him to carry out his duties, to make objective comments on many issues. [[Applause]] I would like, my fellow Members, to say that it is the right of the President of Ukraine to submit both for release and for the appointment of a foreign minister. And now I'm bringing you into your consideration and I'm asking you to support by voting the Supreme Council Order (registration number 4111a) on the release of Andrija Bogdanović from the duties of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine how to vote. Please vote. [[11:43:53]] For 319 Decision taken. But let us still welcome Andrija Bogdanovich, who has fulfilled his duties as minister of foreign affairs of Ukraine. [[Applause]] According to factions, he's asking for freedom to be shown. Parenthood – 72, Party of Regions – 57, Impact – 39, 37 – Economic Development, 34 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 80. "Freedom" is 0 for. I want to say that they voted "against" 35 people. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you, colleagues, to calm down that according to articles 85, 106, 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukraine's Minister of Foreign Affairs is appointed Supreme of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. According to article 106, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine submitted an application for the appointment of Foreign Minister Paul Anatoliyovich Klimkina. The relevant materials concerning Paul Anatoliyovich are distributed to the national deputies. () [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can vote. Please support the draft Decree (4110a) on the appointment of Paul Anatoliyovich Klimkina as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. On the basis and in general we vote, I remind you. [[11:45:48]] For 335 Decision taken. () [[Applause]] Welcome to the newly elected Foreign Minister. Is there a need for a few minutes? Please, Minister, a few minutes about your position in securing Ukraine's foreign policy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course, colleagues. Colleagues, all the materials are handed over to the National Deputies, I would like to remind you of a biography of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u71	Mr. President, Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen of the people! Thank you so much for trusting me. I will try to do everything to ensure that Ukraine's foreign policy is consistent, consolidated and proactive, aimed at protecting Ukraine's national interests. Thanks again so much for trusting me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u72	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, are appointed to serve as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the day of their appointment before taking office at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Before making an oath, I beg you, Pavel Anatolyevich, proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u73	I, Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u74	We welcome the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and we wish you fruitful work in this difficult and responsible direction. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we do not have all the personnel issues that the President of Ukraine has also put forward for the release from office of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine of Ukraine, Mr. Stepan Ivanovich, and for the appointment of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Ms. Valeria Alexiyev Gontarev. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? [[Applause]] Can we not discuss this? Please, Fatherland faction, head of the Sobolev faction Sergey Vladislavovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u75	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. We asked for a brief recess before the vote on the first and second questions in order to hold a faction meeting, since the information we were about to receive had just become known. So we ask you to call a 10-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I think we need to listen, we need a consolidated position on many issues. Can we take a break? At 10. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, colleagues, colleagues. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u77	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Dear Mr. President, Peter Alexiovich Poshenko! We're looking at you today with extremely important personnel issues. It seems to me that if such important issues are to be resolved, there should be a policy to overcome military aggression when it comes to the appointment of the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. When it comes to assigning the head of the National Bank, there are people at the Supreme Council who can't pay off their currency loans for years, and it's obviously important for these millions of people in Ukraine to hear that position from the head of the National Bank. I ask, Your Honor, the solution to the strategic human resources issues, let's consider, Majdan fought for transparency of power, for accountability of authority, for control of power, not for "the gallop of Europe," as was done in the days of Yanuković, Chechov. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to stress that the issue of the format of this important issue is the decision of the Supreme Council. When there is an insistence on consideration, in accordance with the Rules, we will consider in accordance with the Rules without any restrictions, so calmly. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, am I once again, Sergey Vladislavovich, insisting on the faction at the break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, colleagues, colleagues. Sergey Vladislavovich, so that there are no questions in our national deputies, can two factions sign a recess, negotiate with our colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I'll call it a break. Because now, you see, the room insists on making decisions. Two factions, Freedom and Fatherland, insist on a break. There's a 10-minute recess. By 12 o'clock, five minutes. Please, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u79	Please take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. Please sit down, dear fellows. I would like you to make an announcement that Parliament is continuing its work and that it is now adjourned. I want all the nationals to come into the session room. Sit down, dear fellows, because now we're going to have to figure out the first question. Then we'll move on to the second question of choosing the head of the National Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, prepare to make your decisions. Decisions are responsible, and other decisions are not taken by our Parliament. In accordance with Supreme Council decision 4112a, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 18, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the release of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich from his post as Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to decide on this decision to accept it as a basis and, in general, on the release of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich, who has worked very well and productively in this position, has worked effectively. He did a report yesterday, but there's a President's application and we have to support him. Please, Your Honor, make a decision on this matter. Please vote for the release of Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. Please vote. [[12:04:47]] For 302 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 36, 57 – Regions, Impact – 39, 36 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 32, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 67. Dear colleagues, the next question is the appointment of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, not the Supreme Bank, but the National Bank of Ukraine, which is the President who made the application for the appointment of Valeria Alexiyivni Gontarev. There is an offer without discussion to consider the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] In view of the fact that the proposal was uncontroversial, I ask that it be put to the vote. Please decide how to vote on this issue without discussion, fellow honourable colleagues. [[12:05:58]] For 272 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Show the voting factions. Parenthood – 16, Party of Regions – 62, Impact – 40, 35 – Economic Development, 35 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 7, Company 0 – non-fractional – 77. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree (registration number 4114a) on the appointment of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Valeria Alexiyivni Hontarova. Please, Your Honor, support this motion of determination as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:06:54]] For 349 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Let's welcome the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for this high office, and please, Valery Aleksyevna, a few words about the policy of the National Bank of Ukraine on the stability of Ukraine's financial and banking system. Please give a few words to the people's deputies and the people of Ukraine, first of all. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u80	Dear people's deputies, well, it's amazing, and I can tell you that you supported the President, because none of you honestly know me. So this is an even greater responsibility for me. I'm just going to say a few words about who I am and what we can expect, and what we can expect from a person that the national MPs have unfortunately never seen before. And I can say that 20 years of my life I really gave to the development of our country's financial and banking market. Thus, it is well - said, of course, in narrow circles. So bankers, I think today is a very positive signal for them too. Moreover, I hope that this is a really very positive signal for international investors. Because I spent 15 years of my 20 years building foreign banks in Ukraine. I've been in charge of the Sousse General Bank for more than five years. But then I was the first deputy head of government and then the head of the government of the Dutch group of the ING Bank in Ukraine. Moreover, for 20 years I devoted myself to the development of the financial market and the capital market of Ukraine. So for the last seven years, the company I've been running for today, I'm out of control, a new life for me, a new life. The company I've been running for the last seven years is a company that's become a leader in the bond market, because 90 percent of the domestic government debt market we're like trading papers, it's our market. So it's also a company that's the largest asset management company. So I think this experience in financial markets will help me in this position. And, of course, it's a completely different life. Because the monetary policy of the National Bank and the prudential policy of the National Bank is quite different from commercial policy, which I have been doing for the last 20 years. So this is a real challenge for me. But I hope that my professional skills and my macroeconomic knowledge will help me to do so. Well, this one. How to say this in English. It's amazing. [[Applause]] I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u81	No, we don't have an answer to our questions. Dear colleagues, I think the new head of the National Bank will feel the situation in this position. And as soon as possible, it will come to the Supreme Council with information about the prospects for the National Bank's work, about the stability of the financial system, about the banking sector, about the withdrawal of many banks from crisis situations. I hope that we will hear the report of the Head of the National Bank in the near future. Thank you. And I would like to give the floor to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u82	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, dear colleagues! From the bottom of my heart, I wanted to thank you for such a brilliant, fruitful start in our work together. In the near future, I would like to suggest that my meetings with the factions take place. And let the close interaction and close coordination between the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine be an example that we have so far missed in recent years. I would especially like to thank you for the effective work of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Who, at the most difficult moment, took responsibility. I guarantee that Stepan Ivanovich's place will now be extremely important in the political process. I wanted to say thank you to Cleary Oleg Igorovich. [[Applause]] And the evaluation of his work is my appointment to Oleg Igorovich as Councillor of the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I especially wanted to thank Andrija Bogdanovich. [[Applause]] I can say that I have been asked to lead one of Ukraine's foreign diplomatic institutions, and he has accepted this offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't insist on the country! That's what we're going to figure out with Rain. Thank you. Friends, thank you for your fruitful cooperation! I'll see you later. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, please sit down. Now we have another personnel question. Dear colleagues, literally. I'll give it to you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is one personnel issue that needs to be voted on. This is the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal, the release of Alexander Volodymyrovich from his post as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. Please support the Order on the Liberation of Rybchenk Alexander Volodymyrovich from the post of Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. [[12:14:33]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by several faction leaders who have asked to consult before voting on the appointment of the Head of the State Property Fund. Is that what I'm saying? That's why let's do the assignment for the next time. Please, dear fellows. Decision taken. The factions, please. 75 – Fatherland, 52 – Party of Regions, 40 – Impact, 34 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company 0 – non-fractional 53. Please, People's Deputies, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u84	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, honourable fellow MPs! Right now, there's our Ukrainian citizens standing by the walls of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainians who are now being thrown into the currency cabal. A working group is currently in operation, which was created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the own solution to this problem, the issue of monetary lenders. But it seems like we can't get to the common denominator. So there is a proposal and our faction, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, insists on including this bill today in the agenda of the daily bill (No. 4895) on the transfer of foreign currency debt into national currency, the adoption of this bill in the first reading and amending it. Our faction, once again, insists on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I will now continue our work on the inclusion in the agenda, and I will place 4,895 in the agenda. Please, fellow colleagues, please, please, we have a minister of finance sitting to report on an issue that we also need to include in the agenda. Let me remind you, this is the draft Law (4101a) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Capital Taxation. Please, dear fellows. Alexander Vitaliyovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, on March 27, this year, Parliament voted in favour of the government to amend the Tax Code, which established a procedure for taxation of capital income. After that, a serious discussion took place throughout Ukraine and in particular in the banking sector about the extent to which the standards that were adopted here in Parliament are fulfilled. I want to remind you that the bill itself is made up of such norms. We have broken the entire Ukrainian community into 4 groups: up to 20,000 incomes from these people's capital we don't tax; those who have incomes from 250 to 500,000 are taxed by 15 percent; 20 percent, between 500 and a million and 25 million. However, I would like to remind you that in order to carry out such taxation, we had to make decisions to remove the banking secret from the population's investments. This is the norm that caused the biggest debate in the investors’ environment. After consulting investors, with bankers, the government is proposing to Parliament another system of taxation of our citizens' interest income, namely: first, we propose to raise the rate after which income is paid. I'm sorry. First, to replace the taxation of citizens' interest by a special tax on commercial banks, they're going to pay that tax and they're going to pay 18 percent of their expenses. With regard to the progressive scale of taxation, taxation is taxed, but only those citizens whose income is more than 500,000 dollars per year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u87	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u88	Thank you. In this case, taxation will be 5 percent higher, and those who receive more than a million dollars of capital will pay 10 percent higher. In that case, we keep a bank secret, which is extremely important. There are two more rules in the bill. One of them is the taxation of joint investment institutions. We're proposing to take off the benefits from these institutions, because in fact, one of the largest internal offshore areas in our country has been created. We've already discussed this in Parliament and decided to listen to the joint investment funds that work in construction and remove them from this legislative proposal. Well, the government finally decided to go to a business meeting to cancel the actual double taxation on dividends. Here are exactly three standards that are in the proposed law. And I have a request for you, honourable national MPs, in the event that these standards are not adopted from July 1st, the current system of taxation of capital income enters into force today. It's complicated enough, it affects more than a million people. I have an offer to put it in order of the day. And the request is great to vote in the first reading. On the second reading, we will work out this document with the committee and invite you to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, let's put it into the agenda right now, because without including this law, we don't need to discuss it. Let's put it in the agenda and then there'll be a possibility, I'll give you a chance to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u90	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u91	Sergey Anatolyevich, as soon as we include him, you report him to the committee. Well, please, literally a minute. Sergey Teryohin is from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! There was a meeting yesterday of the profile committee, where we discussed the bill in detail. There was a pretty strong discussion. I'd like to sound the decisions we've made. First of all, we need to adopt this law as a basis. Since it is true that dividends are taxed on 1 July, there is a rather awkward nature in which about 14 million investors are required to carry declarations to tax inspection the following year. It's unacceptable. For the second reading, we're going to be in a working group on the committee to change the tax philosophy of dividends. interest on deposits, make ***pump tax on the payer's personality to keep the bank's secret. But instead of assuming the actual double taxation of creditors, not creditors, I apologize, but the banking financial institutions that are offered in this project. That's why the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u93	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u94	So the committee is asking for the basis of this bill, to define a shorter procedure so that we can give a new edition in a week to the Supreme Council and, among other things, to consider a separate issue. And building funds, because there's everything going on there too, let's say, with a sword. Therefore, a request for support is made in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, let's put it in the agenda, and I'll give you the opportunity to discuss it because it's important. I'll remind you that you and I have already made a decision, and that's what the law does. Moreover, it should soon come into operation by means of a full - time program. And it's those changes that the Cabinet of Ministers is making that support a profile committee, that they're just about to ease the action that was previously passed by the law and make a differentiation on that issue. Please, Your Honor, put in order the bill, registration number 4101a. Please, Your Honor, let's take our seats. Attention, colleagues! Please, now we're voting, an important question. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the Law (register No. 4101a). Please vote. [[12:24:26]] For 266 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I address all present, let us give it to him. Can we go to the first reading right now? We can. Please support in the first reading with the refinements that Sergey Terjochin proposed from the profile committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] And to the second reading by a reduced procedure. I see. Please support in the first reading. Please vote. [[12:25:09]] For 249 Decision taken. And immediately, my fellow Members, for the brief procedure for dealing with this issue. Please support the committee's proposal to adopt it immediately, this law. [[12:25:28]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question is, it applies. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's Deputies, please, one minute. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, of course we also support this legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers. But not the way it's reflected in the bill. In particular, we do not support the specific tax that is imposed on banks. Because there is no economic justification. Of course, the faction of the Party of the Regions is consistent in the idea. In the passive income tax model. And I would like to point out to the citizens that the faction of the Party of the Regions did not vote in favour of the bill to prevent a financial disaster and to create preconditions for the economic crisis that introduced the model of passive income taxation. We said that it was foolish and absurd to deprive banks of their duties as tax agents in taxing their income. We insist that the rate is linear for the administration to be simplified and banks to be obliged to perform tax agents. That's why we're saying that all the MP factions and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u98	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, I have a simple revolutionary proposition. We've all been given a day's work. Why bother with MPs, read documents? Let's put everyone on the vote right now and take them. What is happening today in the hall, when documents are not even discussed when there is no question of the appointment of candidates, we do not hear about the policy they are going to do. This is another argument to state that this Parliament has no right to life. It must be dissolved, and new parliamentary elections have been held.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I would like to answer Mr. Pinzenik's question that all the proposals I put to the vote are the proposals of the people's deputies. And without discussion, it was also an offer, including your faction, when we talked about the appointment of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. So let's determine your position, and then you'll make these statements. Dear colleagues! I'm asking that we move to the next question of registration number 4973. This is a draft law amending article 34 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (for strengthening guarantees of the exercise of independent justice). Please, Your Honor, decide to include this project in the agenda. I recall registration number 4973, the draft Act amending article 34 of the Criminal Procedural Code (for strengthening guarantees of independent justice). Please support inclusion in the agenda, Your Honor. [[12:28:54]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Please, one minute to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to report that there is a technical amendment to this bill in part I would like to request that we state that paragraph 5 reads as follows: "The court in which criminal conduct is to be considered is located in an area where an anti-terrorist operation is conducted, a state of war or emergency is imposed and there is a threat of ensuring the independent exercise of justice or interference with the professional activities of the judges." So the language goes that this is the only reason that the territory where the court is located is the territory where the anti-terrorist operation is conducted. The issue of the definition of an anti-terrorist operation is defined today by the Anti-Terrorist Act, which has clearly defined the status and procedure of acceptance and declaration. So the observation that this rule can be used to simply arbitrarily transfer the issue from one court to another, obviously, already.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u101	Clearly, fellow believers! I would like to remind you that this is a serious question, it is about providing justice for those citizens who are now deprived of the opportunity to go to court in connection with their being living in territories where an anti-terror operation is taking place. So it's about changing the jurisdiction of these issues that can't be dealt with in this area. Dear colleagues! It's an important question, it's about our citizens. I would ask, however, to support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. And the corrections that the national deputy of Yemen was talking about, and yesterday the national MPs were talking about, they could be discussed and included in the discussion. Now it's about getting into the agenda. Dear colleagues! I beg you, let's give Olesia Donny one word, one more minute. We're going to make decisions on whether or not to include this issue in the agenda. Please turn on Donya's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u102	A very important bill, a perfectly right-wing colleague of Yemen. We must now vote in favour of the inclusion of the agenda, but I would like to ask my colleague Yemen to add another amendment. Not only do we have an anti-terror operation, but we may have a war situation in place as soon as possible. And it has to be adequately predicted in these regions of the anti-terrorist operation, or in a state of condition, in the case of the introduction of a state of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u103	Okay. Dear colleagues, an important offer. I ask with this question to support the draft law and not to deprive our citizens of the possibility of being in territories where there is an anti-terrorist operation to refer them to the courts, of the question of changing their jurisdiction. Please protect our citizens and support the inclusion in the agenda of the 4973 project. Please, colleagues, back up, please. [[12:32:09]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand the attitude to this important issue. The factions, please. 63 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 0, we're talking about the protection of Ukrainian citizens, Impact - 35, 27 - Economic Development, 24 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 - Freedom, the Company - 0, non-fractional - 20. Dear colleagues, I would ask that the secretariat make an announcement and all the deputies come to the hall so that they can make responsible decisions. Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u104	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Well, I'm just wondering, for today, there's no justice in the entire range of territories. This is about basic things, protecting the rights of our citizens, if these are murders, rapes, any other most terrible crimes. Are we going to keep pulling on them for months and not let them go to court? The question is basic, what Deputy Donny said, it's settled in the draft, right in this text, that if you can't look at it directly in an area that's a jurisdictional territory, it's going to be considered in another territory. Well, that's how we're going to protect the millions of our citizens whose rights are being violated today. It's not a question of some sort of anti-terrorist operation, but anything else, it's a question of fundamental protection of citizens' rights in court. Let's vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u105	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u106	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dearly beloved, please forgive me for my word, but what a mess!? They've solved the personnel issues and they've run around the clock!? What, did they begin to welcome the newly appointed high - rankings? Did they run to the buffet? [[Applause]] . How can you do that?? This is about the life and death of our children, our defenders, our heroes. In general, any question relating to conducting an anti-terrorist operation, fighting in the East of Ukraine, releasing Ukraine from terrorists, diversians and separatists, it has to vote unanimously here, and here we have to draw I don't know what to do to keep the issues in order daily. You can't do that, Alexander Valentinovich! Tell the Secretariat, let them ring all the bells, let them kick you in the ass, dig you out of the buffet of those deputies, vote here now! All matters of the military must be voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues. That's a very good position. The only point I want to make is that it's not even a military issue, it's a matter of access for our citizens who are now in an area where an anti-terrorism operation is taking place, where the courts cannot work so that they can appeal to other courts. And regardless of what they say, and according to the problem, and the territoriality of the problem that is being discussed in court. So, dear colleagues, I ask you once again, let's support the inclusion of this important issue in the agenda. I'm addressing everyone, my dear colleagues. Please vote, everyone. Alexander Volodymyrna, please vote as well. Please, Sold, National Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u108	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm now addressing those deputies who are in the hall for you to vote in favour of this project. Explain why. In addition to allowing the project to seek the protection of its rights before different courts, the project will also provide an opportunity to protect the rights of property and other rights of people who are currently being violated in courts under terrorist control. People are now turning to those occupied territories who say that because of their court decisions they're taking property, because of their judicial decisions, they're making it legitimate for the riots and the abuses that are taking place where the fighters and the invaders are now. That's why I'm addressing all the deputies. Please vote if you really respect the Ukrainians, the Ukrainians, who now need your protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u109	Please, Your Honor, everyone has made their stand. The position is clear. I ask once again, Your Honor, to support the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 4973 on Amendments to Article 34 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on the Strengthening of Guarantees of the Implementation of Independent Justice. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:37:15]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 64 – Fatherland; Party of Regions – 0 (position for the protection of citizens understood); 37 – Impact, Economic Development – 30.29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues! Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u110	Well, somewhere else I can understand the individual MPs from the Party of Regions when they're voting bills that don't exactly match them, let's say, intentions to leave their soft spots here in the chairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I can't understand when you bastards spit in the face of ordinary Ukrainian citizens! When you spit in the face of those people who voted for you yesterday! Repent! Let's put it back to the vote and give me at least 10 votes! Ten voices, lest the Lord God punish you for what you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, please, the author of the law, the national deputy of Yemen, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u112	Deputies from the factions of the regions. You who have been chosen there in moreretary districts. I'm addressing you first. Because the point is that today, tens of thousands of judges don't work there, because they don't have that possibility today. Because buildings are occupied by people with machine guns because the judges are afraid to go to work at all. And ordinary people suffer. The question is that no human can seek the protection of his rights in court at all. And that way, it's completely undefended. And you today, when you don't vote, you take away the right to protect your personal rights of every person. Well, think about it as thousands, millions of people in the Lugansk and Donetsk region, to which we propose today to give the legitimate right to defend our interests in court. That's all you have to think about. I'm just begging you and asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote again. One last time. This is the last time I'm going to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please calm down, calm down. National MP Voropeyev, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, if you have a coalition and a majority, please do not accuse us of your sins. That's the first one. And the second. You have created a law whereby you can hand over any cases to those regions in any court you wish to refer them to. You forgot that you insisted on enacting the Automated Case Allocation Act in order to avoid corruption. It's a purely corrupt law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, it seems to me that this is simply a cover-up, a refusal to protect the people in the Luhansk and Donetsk region, first of all, who cannot go to trial today. They are given the right by this law to appeal to any other court when their court does not work for objective reasons. And that's why we're talking, dear colleagues. And covering up your unwillingness to cover for people, and making them worse is just cynical. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to speak to the MPs who say they represent the opposition. When it comes to protecting the Ukrainian state when it comes to protecting the people of Donbas, we don't care who in the coalition, who in opposition, our duty is to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, but also the right to defend them in court. And I'm addressing the opposition MPs: to mention my constituents at Donbassa, who are now deprived by terrorists, by bandits, deprived of their right to go to court and defend their rights in court. Thousands of people sit in prison at Donbass, taking businesses, taking apartments, taking cars, and not being able to protect their rights. I ask you, when it comes to protecting the state, protecting citizens' interests, forgetting your political preferences, remembering people, and remembering that it is a sacred duty to protect Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I'm asking for a vote on support for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to Article 34 of the Criminal Procedure Code (for strengthening guarantees of the exercise of independent justice). Let me remind you, the registration number for this project 4973. Please, dear fellows. Please sit down and support the inclusion of this project into the agenda. Please vote. [[12:42:53]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is very difficult to make simple decisions when such sabotage is taking place. Please, colleagues, we still have a lot of questions to consider. Please be seated in the workplace. Please make an appeal to the deputies who are outside the session room to come into the hall and work. Next question. Please give the Yemeni a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this bill now on both the basis and in general, because people have not been able to apply for a month to defend their rights. I ask, in order for there to be no insinuation, I will read under the transcript the text of the amendments to paragraph 5. Which now sounds like, "Criminal conduct is referred to another court if." – paragraph 5 – “a court in which criminal proceedings should be considered is located in an area where an anti-terrorist operation is carried out, a military or state of emergency is introduced and there is a risk of ensuring the independent exercise of justice or interference in the professional activities of the courts”. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can. Please, please, let's support this as a whole. I feel like I do. Colleagues, don't let anyone out of the hall, please, MPs. Please, on the basis and overall, support this 4973 registration number. I apologize, fellow believers, there are observations, say that when it is counted, the law will be upheld. Is that what I'm saying? Please, Rudzkowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, in order for us to take as a basis and as a whole, there is an offer of everything that has just been made by the author, except, after the words "a." So then we're going to accept, honourable colleagues, and, we're going to allow people to go to court, we're going to protect people's interests so that they can in those areas of course where the ATO is being held, they're going to be introduced, or they're going to be in a state of emergency, people can't protect their rights, they're going to look elsewhere. But if we write, "and other threats," yes, "hazards," it could be rain, hail goes on and on and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u121	Understanded the offer and supported by the copyright team. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u122	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. The law is extremely relevant, the law is very important, but let's not turn the Supreme Council meetings into a farce, and we hear the third draft of this bill in words. So the impact faction is now proposing: we're voting in the first reading of it, we're voting in the reduced procedure for consideration of the second reading, and in the next literally sessional week, we're voting on it as a whole. There is a proposal to put the bill in first reading and a reduced procedure for consideration for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u123	National MP Mirny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u124	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The faction insists that we now vote on the bill as a whole and remove the issue, and then, if there is a point to be made to amend the law, otherwise we will not vote on the law at all. We're constantly carrying, transporting, carrying, people in distress, people in tragedy, they can't solve questions on the spot, they're taking property, as if legally, because there's a solution under the guns, and every word of fornication and desire to move, not to hear, is rejected. If the drafter now agrees with Rudzkowski, he says so and we vote in general. Otherwise we just waste all the questions that stand, and the people who live there, I think they'd love to come and spit in your eyes, because you're stretching that question, not voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u125	Please, National Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u126	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear voters, dear colleagues! First, the question is almost exclusively about the inhabitants of the two areas of Donetsk and Luhansk, so I think that the Party of Regions should take care of the people who voted for them here, because there are also major districts that are appropriate, which no one has changed. Therefore, it is necessary to vote in the first and in general, as proposed by Leonid Jemetz, if he agrees with Rudzkowski’s amendment and does not translate it for the next week. Because I'm going to remind you that the next plenary week is July 3, and the next week we have work in the districts, and another decision we haven't approved yet. So people who can't wait for justice and injustice in these areas will wait for us to return to that question. So let us do without wickedness, in the first reading, and in general immediately vote on the edition of the Yemeni newspaper that he said on the transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the only thing I can see was the discussion of the author of the law from the impact and impact factions. Are we voting in general? Vote. The strike supports the whole thing. I'd like your respectable colleagues, on the basis and in general. Please vote. Vote. [[12:49:27]] For 218. They didn't touch a bit. The factions, please. Parenthood – 76, Party of Regions – 0.34 – Impact, 28 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional – 20. Please give the author of the law a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you, I understand that someone is now stalling to discuss this bill. I'll read it again, there's a very short norm, it's very short, it's very clear and it's very simple. It sounds like that "the court in which criminal introduction should be considered is located in an area where an anti-terrorist operation is carried out, a war or state of emergency is introduced." The dot, everything, of course, is simple. I'm asking you very much, even the week that we're going to consider this bill further is hundreds of lost. And questions, I'm not afraid of that word, because it's about rape and robbery and robbery and everything else that people just can't go to the courts today because they're not working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u129	People's deputy to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished representatives of the so-called coalition, and especially the distinguished Mr. Kirilenko, who is very concerned that the faction of the Party of the Regions does not properly care for its electorate. Take care of your constituents, Mr. Kirilenko. With regard to the substance of the legislative initiative, we support the idea that we are against manual redistribution of cases, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] But we're in favour of that. The bill does not in any way affect the rights of the electorate. Why? Because this is the transfer of criminal conduct to the courts. What does that mean? This means that there are certain reports in the register of offences filed by the prosecutor’s office and duly examined by the courts. [[B in m in s a l in]] And accordingly, it's not about citizens' rights, it's about the need for a prosecutor's office or a court of law to deal with criminal cases. That's why we don't need you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u131	Please, the national deputy of Yemen, the author, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, what else can be added here? I believe that every national MP chosen to protect, first of all, their interests today is simply obliged to vote in favour of this law. Otherwise, if we don't do it, well, I'm sorry, this Supreme Council is unable to represent the interests of the Ukrainian people and has to dissolve itself, repent and never appear in these high walls of the Ukrainian Parliament again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to uphold this law for the last time. Colleagues, come on, there's been a lot of replicas. Please. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, I will give you the opportunity. Let's vote now. I'll give you a chance after that to tell you. Honorable colleagues, on the basis of and in general, are willing to vote? Let's go back to that question. Let's go back to that question, and then we'll make a decision on the adoption of this law. Please support the return of the National Deputies to Project 4973. Please vote. [[12:53:20]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 74, Impact – 36, 28 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign, European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I think a little later let's work in this direction. I feel sorry for those who today did not support protection, especially against opposition. And I beg you, Viacheslav Kirilenko. His last name was called.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u134	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." You see, the Party of the Regions just confirmed a statement made yesterday by the Doña leader Lewchenko. They said that as long as you can see, they're shooting there. They're putting an end to any political activity on Donbas. And now the law, which specifically applies to the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, they don't vote. And they don't care if the rights of the people in the courts are being violated, people are taking property, cars, apartments, beatings and killings, and the Party of Regions is voting zero. That is why I urge the voters of Donbas: never vote for this criminal and selling political power again. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the next issue that we should consider is the draft Law (4032a), the draft Tax and Customs Control Act in the Crimea Free Economic Zone and the specificities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I recall, this question relates to the occupied territory temporarily, or Crimea. And you and I agreed that the economic part of the Occupied Territory Act would be voted on separately. This is exactly the kind of project that, according to the commission of Parliament and the committee, has been prepared. Give me one minute, please, Sergey Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, there was a committee meeting yesterday where this project was considered. I remind you that on April 21st, we passed the Law on the Temporary Occupied Territory, where article 13 instructed the Cabinet of Ministers to develop an economic part of this law for 15 days. You see, it hasn't been two months, and our businesses, which are in other parts of Ukraine and, among other things, in Crimea, are sitting under the damoclus sword of criminal tax evasion. So in this law, it's difficult, this law solves a lot of issues, not just about taxation, but about the repatriation of business, let's say, the evacuation of temporary displaced persons, currency regulation, customs regulation. We would ask very much on behalf of the committee, and I understand that the government supports (need to ask the minister of finance) that we should take this bill as a basis and adopt it in a reduced manner until the end of this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I understood the proposal and the committee and the author of the law. The government's backing it up. Yes, Alexander Vitaliovich? The government supports this bill and we really need to regulate economic relations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and those entities that are outside the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but have ownership, or property, or other assets in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The very protection of our citizens, first of all, is the purpose of this law. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of a bill (4032a) on tax and customs control in the free economic zone of Crimea and on the specificities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please, regarding the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:57:48]] For 247 Decision taken. Please turn on teryochina. Turn on the factions. Now, Sergey Anatolyovich. Parenthood – 65, Party of Regions – 34, 35 – Impact, Economic Development – 28, 26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 24. One minute, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in order for us to adopt this law in this session, the committee is now asking us to take it as a basis and vote in favour of the reduced order of preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, can we support you? We can. I see that there is inspiration and desire. Based on the base. Victor Mikhailovich, on the ground. On the ground, not in general. I understand that Victor Mikhailovich would like to do it in general, but let's just put it on a base. We discussed this very much with a view to working on it. Please turn on the microphone to the People’s Deputy Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u140	Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Well, I've been in this room a lot, but I haven't seen this mass disregard of any procedure. Well, at least let the factions talk about the bill. Well, it's turning into an unnecessary meeting of the Supreme Council. Let's take the day order at 10 p.m., vote it out. Let's at least have a brief discussion of the law and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I propose that we do not depart from this question, because then it will be difficult to return to it. For the summary of his consideration, please vote. [[12:59:42]] For 230 Decision taken. Please, please. Sergey Anatolyevich, you've spoken three times on this issue. I think we already know what you're doing. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this statement. Two for, two against. The word is given to the National Deputy of Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! This is the kind of bill that can't be delayed. You know how many of our entrepreneurs today have branches of their businesses, or even businesses in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that are occupied today. And they are now subject to taxation in Crimea under the law of the Russian Federation, but just as their businesses are registered in Ukraine, at the same time, they are subject to taxation under the laws of Ukraine and we put them in a very uncomfortable situation. It's with customs control. On the contrary, we need to show how much the State of Ukraine, its Parliament, understands the situation, creates such conditions that Ukrainian business appreciates this and understands how humane it is in taxation and customs control, that we are announcing to them the free economic zone, by making sure that they do not forget that they belong to the State of Ukraine and that it creates an additional good business environment for them. This needs to be done as quickly as possible, because otherwise, those who have business are affected, and those who work in it are ordinary citizens. So for the first time I'm reading, for the second time in the committee, we're going to clear the law and it's going to be the one that's going to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u143	Thank you. The National MP, Palamarczuk, gives the floor to the People’s Deputy Pinzenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. For me personally, it's a very unusual situation for me to speak out on a law on free economic zones that I've never supported. But it is a unique case of not only supporting but also urging a colleague to vote on the law. Because it's not about tax benefits, it's not about tax preferences, it's about addressing the extremely problematic issues that have arisen in connection with the occupation of the Crimea. Tax matters that need to be settled. In this regard, I will urge my colleague to vote in favour of this law, for it is not tax benefits. But do you remember when we first voted on the law, and how many problems have we caused? And it made us put economic issues into a separate law. I would ask, for two weeks, if it has been two months, whether it has been two months, it is important not to hurry, but to solve the problems that have arisen for Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Therefore, the request to support in the first reading, but carefully, to look carefully, because unfortunately, it is a complex law and we need to remove all obstacles to the normal functioning of Ukrainian businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sobolev is handing over to the People's Deputy Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u146	Xenia Leapina, Party for Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this law is very long-awaited. In fact, for two months now, businesses have been asking us to settle all of these issues in real life as soon as possible. In fact, I support my esteemed colleague Pinzenic. It's not that much of a benefit, it's not at all a benefit, it's actually a justification for the situation that is. We provide legal grounds so that we can move goods properly across the actual customs border. Even though it's not legal, it can't be legal, but we all understand that. Because Crimea is the territory of Ukraine. So we give her special status. And we can work quietly with her. We need to do everything we can to make Crimean businesses want to work in Ukraine. For this to be our Ukrainian gross domestic product. I was approached by the Chamber of Commerce of Ukraine. They are willing to join the task force to improve our proposals for second reading. To strengthen the preferences that we create for businesses that export businesses to Ukraine and employ citizens who are actually forced to receive the status of refugees from Crimea today. They'll hire them. And this is actually going to work to create Ukraine's national wealth. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, in the first reading, based on a reduced term. And serious preparation for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u148	Please pass the word to Michael Blavajk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u149	Please turn on Michael Blavacky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u150	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our committee's work is now very poorly organized. And a full session, I mean, when there was a quorum, it was the last time in December. I want you to take this under your own personal control. Because it seems to me that the members of our committee are still in business today, there are many businessmen and oligarchs who continue to organize their relations with the prosecutor's office, with the authorities, with the militias or continue to implement new schemes and want to implement them under today's government. Please consider this. And with regard to the bill, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has long insisted that a free economic zone be established in Crimea. And this today, we all understand, unfortunately, is hard to realize and bring these standards into practice. That is why we urge this bill to be adopted today in the first reading. Create a management company to control Crimea. This is what I mean by also addressing the President and the Prime Minister to give opportunities, some broad possibilities, these should be authorized persons who work in the Crimea. And take it in the first reading and prepare it in a simplified procedure for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's prepare for the vote. That's an important question. It actually applies to hundreds of thousands of our citizens or who work in enterprises or enterprises that are in occupied territory, etc. So let's support the first reading proposal. Then we'll discuss the issue with a reduced procedure. And hopefully, in the near future, this law will be passed in general. Please, colleagues, adopt bill 4032a, the draft Tax and Customs Control Act in the Crimea Free Economic Zone, and on the specificities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Vote please, Your Honor. Please support me as a base. [[13:08:29]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, immediately following a reduced procedure for dealing with the matter. Please support the proposal of the committee and the deputies who made the presentation. Please vote. [[13:08:52]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we continue the topic of the occupied territory of Ukraine, temporarily, I stress, the draft law on sanctions for persons involved in the occupation and annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Registration number of Law 4752. Dear colleagues, ask for a job and support the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, 4752 for inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, please take your seats. Hold on, hold on to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal that is objective. Because civilized nations of the world have imposed sanctions on those involved in the occupation of Crimea, and Ukraine has not yet approved that decision. We are obliged to approve and implement this decision in practice. Please, for inclusion in the agenda 4752, please vote. [[13:10:27]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The author of the law one minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u152	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear fellow MPs, I am addressing you and I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. We are witnessing the occupation and annexation of Crimea today. We are witnessing today when Russian-funded divers and terrorists shed blood, tears, and war on our Donbassa. The whole world, I emphasize, has united the entire civilized world to bring responsibility to those who have committed illegal annexation of Ukrainian territory. Even in the State Duma, Russia is about to impose sanctions against us. And the only parliament that can't protect its country is the Ukrainian Parliament. We still have not decided to impose sanctions on those involved in the occupation, the annexation of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. You and I demand support from all over the world, but can we count on that support if we are unable to protect our country ourselves and impose sanctions? Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to put this question to the vote again until it is accepted. It's a disgrace when we're in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u154	It is a disgrace when the Ukrainian Parliament, when MPs who call themselves Ukrainian national deputies, are afraid or unable to impose sanctions against persons involved in the occupation and annexation of Crimea. Those of the MPs who don't vote for sanctions, they support this military aggression, they support the occupation of Crimea, they support the war on Donbas. And I'm asking for a list of deputies who didn't vote in favour of the day-to-day issue of sanctions against persons involved in the occupation of Crimea and Sevastopol to be published in the parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Let the whole country know those who support and encourage the aggressor. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues! Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Here we are today actually making a census of separatists and diversors in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I agree with my colleague Lazko on the fact that today we are to examine the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the favor of protecting Ukraine's national interests. And I ask you to put that question to the vote again. But, Oleg, I want to make a note of you, you call the Party of the Regions, the Yanukovich gang, the opposition and the communists. They're not opposition, they're opposition like a fork fork. The opposition will be chosen in the next parliamentary elections, there will be new forces, new young people who will really represent Donbas, who will vote for the simple people who live there. And once again, strike for the election and ask the Council to dissolve itself, as required by millions of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u157	National MP Fedoruk from this, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u158	Dear National Deputies! Yesterday and today, in Chernobyl, mourning has been declared for the fact that two days ago, 10 soldiers were killed under Lugansk, right from the Chernobyl Battalion, who defended and fought those who preach terrorism and secession. The situation in Chernobyl is extremely tense, women, mothers have blocked international traffic routes and are demanding that they investigate all of this and not send more soldiers to die there. There's information that needs to be sent to a battalion of territorial defenses that was recently created in Chernobyl to protect the area. I appeal to you, Alexander Valentinovich, to give the Ministry of Defense a mandate to consider these situations, taking these situations into account until they are directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u159	I understood the offer, fellow believers. Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u160	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! We finally have pride and we have the power to tell those who take over our territory that we are ready to fight them, including those bills. Why, we are not prepared to vote in favour of imposing sanctions on those who are involved in the capture of our territory!? Do we even have a little respect for ourselves? Are we ready to go to bed under anyone and we're afraid to be brave? So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom claims that, first of all, it will support itself -- 35 votes as it was -- 36 votes as it was, sorry -- and requires everyone else to order those who are trespassing on our territory. And I want to tell Capplin's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u161	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u162	A small wish: the spelling of the Ukrainian language, when it comes to a man, is said "Easy," and if they say "Easy." Well, maybe you know something. But this is a woman's sex, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, with spelling let's sort it out a little bit later. And now we need to find out about the adoption of this law. Colleagues, I ask once again for the insistence of the people's deputies 4,752 to support inclusion in the agenda. To the order of the day of our session, dear colleagues. Please take your seats and vote. Please include the "Council" system and support inclusion of 4752, the registration number of the law, into the agenda. Please vote. [[13:17:36]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am sure that Parliament will still make this decision. Please work with the missing deputies, who are not working in the session room for some reason. By factions, please show this vote. 68 – "The Fatherland", 0 – Party of Regions, "The Strike" – 32, 28 – "Economic Development", 26 – "European Sovereign Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35.0 – KPU, non-fractional – 25. National MP Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u164	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We are not in vain insisting that the results of the vote be given after every faction vote. And we're going back to these rams, sorry, as we mentioned earlier today: in the morning, we voted, including all the factions of the coalition in full stock. Now, dear colleagues, well, we are voting on important issues. But spit on those regions with the commies, that's the fifth column of Moscow. But don't let your deputies go. With each vote on one, you have less votes for two deputies. Well, where did you go? Are you hungry? Now the Ukrainian people are hungry, to those MPs who do not fulfil their obligations to the electorate, and will have claims against all of you. Therefore, honourable colleagues, first of all from the coalition, we have enough votes, keep your deputies tied up and let them vote on all matters, not just those put up by the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people expect important votes from us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question. I'm convinced that we're going to go back to this question and we're going to accept that it's important enough for us to consider it and accept it. And not just to put it into the agenda, but to take it as a foundation as a whole. Please, Your Honor, the next question is, we need to put it in the agenda with a view to making a decision. This is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (responsibility for the financing of secessionism). We can now assess by vote who either finances separatists or supports the funding of separatists is those who do not vote in favour of this law. Please, Your Honor, registration number 4822. Let me remind you again, this is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (responsibility for the financing of secessionism). Please, dear fellows. Colleagues, then give us a hug, please take your seats. Mr. Bogdan, please go to work. One minute, Irina Lucenko is the author of the law. Please. Yes, from the city of Irina? Put the timer back on so she can perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Continued with the subject of sanctions, we have two articles in the Criminal Code that qualify for acts of inciting and inflaming hostility and separatism. But in this context, one element that is decisive for fuelling these conflicts is the financing of this separatism. Let's take a systematic look at this problem. Where did Crimea begin? Isn't it from separatism? Isn't it a matter of separation? Were not these instigations financed through the media, television, and the performances of the same national MPs? We voted and tried to vote on the removal of the MP's inviolability. Why do we close our eyes to this basic problem? Let's face it, Ukraine wasn't ready for this, was it? Well, she was not prepared for the fraternal people to finance us through our fifth column.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u167	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u168	Please, Alexander Valentinovich, a serious question. Let's look at it systematically before that. It all begins with the instigation. We've come to the point where we're catching up on these problems. Let's solve them systematically. Let's face it, we have to build a mechanism for the joint work of the National Bank, Customs, Tax Office, Prosecutor's Office, BSS, by identifying these funding channels. We know where they come from, let's turn them off. So I ask you to take a responsible approach to this question. Today Lugansk, yesterday Crimea, Donetsk. Do you see what's happening in Odessa?Oh, my God! We know that this kind of instigation is going to be supported by Freedom, and in Lviv, Frankivsk. Please put to the vote a bill introducing criminal responsibility for financing separatism, such as the ball that these trees are thrown into in order not to allow this plague to spread all over Ukraine. The Cozemyakin committee supported the bill. The Chumak Committee also admitted that there is no corruption component in this bill. I ask you not to catch up, but to solve them now and here to support this bill and vote for its inclusion in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're not discussing it right now, let's support inclusion in the agenda, then we'll be able to discuss it. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of a bill to impose sanctions on persons involved in occupation. Oh, I'm sorry. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for the financing of separatism (Registration No. 4822) on the inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[13:24:17]] For 223 Dear colleagues! Bezbach’s national deputy approached and wanted to vote in favour of the law. Please, Your Honor, let's get into the agenda. Colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda. Let's sit in our jobs. Please support all possibilities of fighting for Ukraine. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote (4752). [[13:24:58]] For 225 The factions, please. 73 – Fatherland, 1 – Party of Regions, 35 – Economic Development – 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues! Please, National Deputy Ilyenko with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u170	Andrew Ilyenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm not going to say it's a shame what's happening right now. Why don't we take a look at the proposal so that those MPs who don't vote, maybe we should take them to the Attorney General's Office? Maybe we should confiscate their property and then exchange it for our captives, because I see it as the best way to use such national deputies, then exchange it for the captives of our own, who are in the hands of separatists, because today I see no other application for them will be, well, confiscation of property, of course. Alexander Valentinovich! Perhaps we will consider this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u171	Dear colleagues. We would have changed them a long time ago, but nobody needs them, so that's the problem, you know. So let's go back to that question, colleagues. National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u172	Dear colleagues. This bill was discussed in our committee, the Committee on Law Enforcement, and all the MPs representing Parliament voted in favour, and there were no comments. In large numbers, this bill contributes to the integrity of the state, and we all say that we are a single state, and I think that those MPs who doubted will now change their position and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u173	National Deputy Ariev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! We have recently had a case where we have a traitor to Ukraine, barely agreed to his arrest, a man who calls for, simply a war against Ukraine, is a former colleague of the Kings, whom he received, for whom only 226 votes were paid for his invocation of responsibility and arrest. It's a disgrace. But we have a coalition of over 250 subscribers. Please tell me where they are today, Alexander Valentinovich! Let's take the next question of the Supreme Council discharge order and get out of here. Because it's already a shame.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, please, colleagues, let's not break up. Now, I feel like there's going to be a vote because very inspired, reasoned statements have gone away. Dear colleagues, let's not, you see, a few more men have come to the vote. Please, dear fellows, I've already heard the offer of discharge. Colleagues, come on, you better call your colleagues right now so everyone can vote. Dear colleagues, please. Opposition, please vote. We have the opportunity to speak when we discuss the matter. Colleagues, 225 I recall voting and I feel there is now an inspiration to adopt this law, to include it in the order of the day. Yes or no? Please vote to include the project in the agenda, 4822. Please vote. [[13:28:43]] For 242 A decision to make. [[Applause]] Please. Dear colleagues, is there an opportunity to accept as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u176	Please vote. [[13:29:06]] For 238. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, if such inspiration has been given, I ask you to return to Law 4752 on the imposition of sanctions against persons involved in the occupation and annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol on the inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support me. I see the patriots are still coming up and coming up to the hall. Please vote. Please vote for an important law. [[13:29:46]] For 214 Dear colleagues, I don't understand. The factions, please. 76 – "The Fatherland", "The Region Party" – 0, "The Strike" – 34, "Economic Development" – 17, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 26, 35 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 26. Please, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u177	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, well, first offer. I'm going to add to that the proposal that Andrew Illenko made. In addition, I propose that we announce which factions do not vote from the coalition. Because, you know, sitting around, yelling about Parliament's self-delivery, smart-ass, saying there are signatures for depriving MPs for a five-day walk. Our faction has all signed for this Kaplan bill. Instead, some 15 punches were not signed for the bill. So let's be honest. If we vote, we show. The vote now showed that several members of the coalition had not voted. And that's just not enough votes. The Freedoms faction votes unanimously: 35, 35, 35. If we were 226, I think there would be no problem at all and proper and patriotic laws to protect us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u178	Thank you. National Deputy Kirilenko, please. I ask the members of the Secretariat to announce once again in the towers that immediately all the deputies will enter the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u179	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear voters, dear colleagues! Well, there's obviously some kind of shock in some of the people from what Ukraine is going to do is take a step against Russia. There are other deputies. But I want to point out that, first of all, the entire civilized world, the European Union, the United States and even the Third World have already imposed sanctions against both the country and the individual officials of the Russian Federation. Secondly, this Russia itself has long imposed sanctions against Ukraine and against national MPs, most of us, and against government officials, and even against Ukrainian goods. Potatoes are already the best Ukrainian Russia in the world does not want to buy. Although they do not have enough potatoes. That's how they hate us all with you. I want to remind you that criminal cases have been committed against officials and the National Guard. Therefore, we must now vote on this law and not be afraid. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Herman insists on your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u181	I ask you, Mr. Head, to mention those people who are standing on the street demanding the inclusion in the agenda of the bill that we are talking about. 4895. Please make the vote, don't take the time. Remember not only your own interests but also people’s interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is about protecting the interests of Ukraine and this is about sanctions against those involved in the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Dear colleagues, please let's define now. I gave a representative of the Party of the Regions. Take it easy. Dear colleagues, I ask you to urge the deputies to return to this matter and vote on its inclusion in the agenda. Dear colleagues, please vote. [[13:33:52]] For 218. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 73 – Fatherland, region – 0, hit – 37, 20 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, please come back to this matter a little later. So inclusion, we've gone through the issue of inclusion in the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to speak a little less loud. Because you don't need to turn on the microphones, you don't need to hear them on the street. I want to explain to you that this is a question that is included in the agenda. On, it is included in the agenda. So when there is insistence, I can understand it in the first reading. Do I get it right? Is that how national MPs insist? What about separatism? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to say again, calm down. Voting, a bit of the Rules. To the agenda is to the agenda of the day session, not the session day. Hence, honourable colleagues, the proposal and heads of the working committee, Alexi Petrovich, and other national deputies, regarding inclusion in, not inclusion, but consideration in the first reading of two bills. 4895, 4895-1 are laws on the transfer of foreign exchange liabilities to the national currency. Colleagues, can we consider this in our first reading? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? Oh, no? We can't vote without talking about it. Dear colleagues, for the summary of this matter, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:36:03]] For 176 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have two alternative bills: 4895, 4895-1. What's more, I'm going to remind you that a few weeks ago, we created a working group of national MPs who, together with the National Bank, discussed this issue. The only thing I want to say right now is that we're going to be on top of the first reading of this law, because there is a newly elected Head of the National Bank, who must be reconciled to this issue in order for it to be a working, not a theoretical, acquisition of parliament. So, colleagues, please, we have two drafters of the bill: People's MP Rudzikowski, People's MP Opanaschenko. Then, before the committee speaks, I would give Mr. Kaidi's head of the task force the opportunity to speak. And then there's the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please, Your Honor, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. National MP Rudzkowski Mikolaajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u183	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in our own time, we have incorporated Bill 4895 into the agenda so that we, in the working order of the committee, together with the foreign exchange lenders of the National Bank and the government, can find a common language with bankers. I'll keep you posted. During the week, after a day of three to five hours, we met with bankers, government officials. Unfortunately, we were not able to find the solution for just one reason, because for no reason, I emphasize, the representatives of the banking lobby did not go to any concessions. What do lenders insist and ask for? I'm just reporting this law to you, for the national MPs, it's been prepared by banking lawyers, and I'm going to stop it again. In 2007-2008, you remember when the government was adamant that we would have a national currency stable, take loans in foreign currency, people trusted and borrowed loans in foreign currency. After that, especially in 2008 and now, we see that the government has changed its policy, and from supporting a stable national currency, it has moved on to a floating course. But people took credit from their wages, and banks analyzed that it was a third of the family’s income. Thus, in 2009, 80 percent of the family’s income was already paid. After the 2014 crisis, the collapse of the bracelets, people have to pay 120 percent of their family’s income.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u184	Half a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u185	To cover these loans, people borrow money from neighbors, acquaintances, and so forth. For your information, since 2008, more than 200 people have committed suicide, more than 113 thousand have been evicted from the housing that they paid for by half or two thirds. I'm asking you to support in the first reading the conversion of monetary loans into a bracelet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u187	the difference between all pennies and fines, because people were given more pennies and fines than credit commitments, the setting of a marginal interest rate at the National Bank’s account rate and other proposals in the law. I ask you very much from the people who have gathered here, from the hundreds of thousands who have not been able to come, let's adopt this law as a basis, and with the committee together to the second reading, let's take all the proposals of banks, government and so on, let's take people's opinions into account, so that people don't go to Kiev to Parliament, but work in their places. This is the middle class who took loans that he trusted the state, and now, if we don't make a decision, he'll go out in peace, because they'll be thrown out of the apartment and made like all the other beggars. Please support this law in the first reading. Thanks to all the national deputies who supported this law for inclusion, and people are waiting and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! Please, People's Deputy Opanaschenko, an alternative bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u189	Dear National Deputies! What's going on now? It was created, so, really, a few groups with banks, with representatives, with the National Bank, but the question is, whose account are we going to solve what happened in the country, the exchange rate difference that we now got? Is it people's fault if we don't accept this bill and we accept a bill of banks, or banks, or the state? That's the thing. And you and I need to figure out, if we don't accept this bill, I'm already watching that working group for a month -- getting together, putting together this kind of bank credit agreement, putting it in small pieces, and there's no attempt to solve the issue on the side of the banks. So we need to adopt a bill, and I'm sure banks are working on how to get help from the state. Because they have lawyers, they have shown it well in the working groups. If we reject the bill, we leave the people behind and solve all the questions about the exchange rate difference at the expense of the people. It's very simple. You can make it up and say, if you look on the other side or not on the other side. Again. Banks will really need help from the state. But for the banks to start demanding it, we need to adopt this bill. But in my bill, an alternative with the sign "1" is proposed for a difference of 8. Let's say I agree that it's not eight, it's at the time of the contract. If the contract is done at 5.5, let's say it's 5.5 if 7 is 7. So I agree with my colleague Rudzkowski, but I still insist that this be a restructuring, not an conversion, and the interest rate was one NBA interest rate. If we do that, it's going to be the first step into the exchange rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u190	Please finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u191	We're going to take the first step towards lowering interest rates on loans in Ukraine, 20-15 percent of businesses don't have that kind of profitability now in Ukraine in such difficult times. So this is going to be the first step towards the civilized interest rates that are in Europe. We want to go to Europe, and we have to take the interest rates that are there. So I'm asking you not to leave people alone to solve this difficult question, to accept it on the first reading, and we'll see that banks offer us a mechanism like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, from the Alexi Kyde working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u193	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our working group, which was formed under the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, met repeatedly. Representatives of both the public and representatives of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Securities Commission were invited, and discussions were held on a number of occasions about the work of the new bill. But I'm responsible for saying that we're not going to get to the common denominator. Why? Because one party is satisfied with the bill, the other one is not satisfied, the other one is not satisfied. And accordingly, in order to cut down this "proud knot," it's probably necessary to vote here on the first reading of the bill, and to make amendments to the second reading. In general, there was a position at the meeting of the working group: a three - part distribution of responsibility. It's the same thing that monetary lenders are supposed to do because they took loans in the currency, but not in the national currency, and, again, the National Bank is guilty, or let's say, the state's fault is in the person of the National Bank, perhaps the Ministry of Finance, other government institutions that have allowed the collapse, the catastrophic fall of the national currency. And, in itself, commercial banks that should probably better explain their rights, duties, and risks to monetary lenders first. So there's actually going to be a three-part division of this responsibility. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will definitely support, and we will vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. And we're going to all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u194	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u195	Give your suggestions to the second reading so that we can go on an issue, and who has any suggestions, and including, I think they will submit proposals both from the National Bank of Ukraine, and from the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to improve this bill. Yes, it is raw, but it needs to be approved in order to get to the end point, to the end result. After all, tens of thousands of Ukrainian families are innocent of failed policies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u196	Please finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u197	Thank you. . Which are innocent in failing policies of falling bracelets, sometimes. It's good that we passed the Moratorium Act on the alienation of property, and they were just thrown away with little kids on the street. We should not allow this situation to be resolved as soon as possible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, please. National Deputy Rizenkov Alexander Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. There's no committee head? The missing head of the committee, that's the attitude to the matter. Please turn on Minister of Finance Alexander Schlapak's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is very concerned about the problem that is currently being addressed in this room. And we're also here to find a solution to the currency loan problem. Yet, dear colleagues, I cannot agree with the statements that claim that there is no progress in solving this problem. At least two bills with different approaches, including what were called here, are now being worked out. We think we need to continue with the task force. We might need another week, another two, but we'll find a solution that won't bring down the banking system. I want to emphasize that. Even first-reading voting is a blow to the banking system. We want to save 87,000 people -- it's the right thing to do, and we will do it. But if the price of this is the collapse of the entire banking system, we're going to get it. Because the banking system for today is expectation. As soon as such steps are taken, I assure you, unfortunately, we are having a huge blow to the banking system. So I'm asked to go back to work in the task force, not radically, and I'm going to now, solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. Please, People's Deputy of Spirin, the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u201	I give the floor to my colleague Martinyku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u202	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u203	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Right now we're in practice and we're going to see who represents you and how your interests are. Before that, you must have followed closely what was happening in the session hall, what was the euphoria when the politicized questions were considered. And you can see how calm and quiet it is when life’s issues are being considered. That's the first one. The other one. I think the working group, and here the working group representative said honestly, did nothing and would not do anything. Therefore, it is not possible to support the minister's proposals. Because if we do not now vote at least in the first reading, the working group will continue to pull the blanket on itself. So let's encourage them -- let's vote in the first reading and get the working group to work, or we'll vote in a whole week. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u204	People's Deputy Moshensky, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u205	I ask you to pass it on to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u206	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear national MPs, Ukrainian people! The first strike on Ukrainian citizens was in 2008. The second strike is this year. Power has changed twice, but there are no economic improvements. And our obligation today to accept this law and to help people. As a result of the events that took place this morning, it will be necessary to introduce an emergency situation into the banking system. Both in the first and second readings without discussion. But our faction insists that today this law be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention. And this is to help our Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u207	People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u208	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, dear Sir! Juggling working groups and anything else we can't solve the global problem. Our political power will support this bill, but at the same time, I invite you, after solving this issue, to the Supreme Council of those who have been cheated by credit unions. And tens of thousands of people like that. When the relatives of Azarova formed in Odessa credit unions that robbed hundreds of millions of dollars of Ukrainian money. I invite all those with whom the Yanukovich regime has chosen the business. Such people are actually millions. And they will all be under the Supreme Council sooner or later. Sooner or later, the children of war, the pensioners, the disabled, all those to whom the state owes us, we will have to pay. And we'll never pay until the government, the security sector, the Attorney General won't return all the big and little gold bars stolen by Yanukovich and his regime. Hundreds of judges, prosecutors, all millionaires, individual billionaires, oligarchs. Third country in the world after the export of capital. Everything needs to be returned, everything needs to be given to ordinary Ukrainian citizens who have built and left us a state. At the same time, I'd like to ask the government. We also have to increase GDP and make money. When you bring a reform plan to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such as your own Parliament, for example, mentioned by the President by the great Reformer Li Quan Yu? Such a plan of reforms as Roosevelt, Baltzerovich, has brought enough of this bark, the new crown of the Tax Code, and the budget, show the country what you will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! We've discussed it. No, I'm sorry, everyone hasn't discussed this. The People's Deputy, the Freedom faction, conveys the word to the Peace People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u210	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Look at the pros and cons. The pro arguments are clear, there's a problem, there's a problem, there's a problem where three parties are involved, and that's objective: the state, the commercial banks, and the people who took the currency loans. And it is clear that this solidarity needs to be divided, and it is clear that this is the first step to be taken. You have to do something. There's a counter argument: we're going to take down the banking system. But let us remember, first of all, what does our nation do for 23 years when the crisis occurs? Saves the banking system. And what made us live better? We're saving the banking system for 98 years, we're saving the banking system for 2000, we're saving the banking system, we're saving the banking system, we're saving the banking system now, but we're saving the banking system regularly, we're confident that tens of billions of dollars are being exported year after year, and those on the bank's watch are somehow going to go blind and don't see how through the conversion centers, through the nearby banks, through the government management system, they're just destroying the stock, the country's currency reserve. And there's no alarm? So let's, really, then we'll adopt laws on the return of capital from the border, then let's adopt laws on non-existence, on the prohibition of monopolies and oligopoly, and it turns out that our banking system will be as stable as ever. But why, all of a sudden, at this point, constructive proposals are going somewhere. So, Your Honor, let us not be misled, let us make decisions, let us vote in the first reading, and seek the path that pleases.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u211	Let's do the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u212	Let's look for a path that will satisfy all sides in one way or another. Because the time has passed when there is a small group of people who are simply bullying the country, and some painful pathology has already existed. There will be no such thing! And we won't give, and people won't give! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u213	National MP Vaschuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I understand that people need help and I will vote. But I have a question for the Minister of Finance, the National Bank and the Banks. To what extent will there be a foreign currency cult in our country? Why are loans to ordinary citizens given in currency? Why is it necessary to pay in a foreign currency for a hospital operation today? Why do foreign currencies go along with the national currency when we talk about Ukraine? We strengthen them, and we bury our own. So only for external economic operations! Some purchase requires a foreign currency. And in Ukraine, we have to make sure that only the bracelet goes. Then there will be no such situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u215	National MP Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u216	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Vitaliovich, thank you so much for saying that you are ready to cooperate. Unfortunately, I'll be honest with you, the three weeks that the working group is working, and I'm a member of the working group, we don't have the ability to cooperate. And the representatives of the National Bank, who, thanks to Mr. Kubiwa, initially prepared a normal bill, taking into account even changes and understanding that the damage is some kind of income, an understanding of taxation, we couldn't find any common language afterwards. We understand that this is a matter to be settled. Please tell me why the political, economic, economic crisis has only paid for corruption since 2007 for the citizens of Ukraine. We helped you in 2008 and 2009 with the refinancing banks. Who helped them? I can give you a lot of examples when you were asked to change buses. The boys took loans, they rented apartments, and they took them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u217	Of course, thank you. Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u218	The scariest, Alexander Vitaliyovich, let's stop the collectors. Let's stop the realisation of the property that is today, which is taking 200,000 apartments and selling 20s, and that's where the banks themselves are profiting. Let's support the first reading. And with you, I swear to you, we'll do it in the right way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, come on, I can see a few more hands. God’s People’s Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u220	I'm sorry I didn't make a very loud call. Alexander Vitaliyovich, Ministry of Finance, we said from the beginning that such a structure was not safe enough to be proposed in the law. We initiated the creation of a working group ourselves. The work of this working group has been overrun by the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. We found the touch points, we could get out with the law. We didn't do it. I want to prove to you that today the first woman has shown hunger. She's not gonna make it. It's a middle class that, you know, it's impossible to process. Why do we today insist on first reading? Because we think that only the first reading will force Nazbank and Minfin to sit down and prepare a harmonized text of the law. The principle is agreed on by three. We share the risks. The principle of compensation on the part of the State was already offered by Minfin. You can't talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u221	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u222	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Ministry of Finance and the National Bank don't support this bill, motivated by the fact that if we accept it, we will protect the interests of millions of Ukrainian borrowers, of foreign exchange loans, we will collapse the banking system. But that's not true. I've got the numbers. These are, by the way, secret numbers. Neither the National Bank nor the Ministry of Finance publishes them. As of April, the National Bank has issued a total of 101 billion,674 million dollars to our banks. From this figure, for example: the Russian World Bank received 223 million, the Russian Alpha Bank -- 109 million, the Prominestbank -- one and a half billion, the Bank of Yanukovitch -- 565 million, the Bank of Arbuzowa FIDOBANK -- 585 million. And I can go on with this list forever. So more than a hundred billion dollars to refinance the banks that are making them, they're buying them, they're charging them with currency. There's money for that, and there's no money to protect the interests of the borrowers. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u223	Half a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u224	Let's not twist our heads! You just don't want to share revenue. You don't want to share over a billion profits. That's why the law has to be passed, and the state that gave consent to currency loans, which was a crime, because it was a crime, first of all, against our national currency, so the state has to be jointly responsible for its reckless actions. I call on Parliament to vote and support this much-needed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u225	Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u226	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The situation is not easy. On the one hand, we all realize that a large number of Ukrainian citizens who have taken foreign exchange loans simply cannot handle them today. The question is, Who is responsible for people’s finding themselves in this situation? People themselves? No, it's not their fault. They calculated their loans according to their income. Is this the fault of the banks? No, the banks aren't guilty either, because they were acting in accordance with the legislation that was at the time. These risks were created by the State. And, of course, you can vote on this and you have to vote on this bill as a basis, but here I am addressing the Ministry of Finance, the bill should provide for a mechanism to compensate the banking system for the potential risks created by this situation. The difference of course that will be fixed, let's say, between how people were taken and returned, and what is now, who would cover? Because they're in banks, they're not just borrowing credit, they're depositing deposits.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u227	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u228	We may find ourselves in a situation where tomorrow those who have deposited deposits will come under the Supreme Council, so this issue must be resolved in a complex in preparation for the second reading of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, we have two People's Deputies' Peacekeepers simply, and we are finalizing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u230	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, we live in a state where we have the highest interest rates on deposits and loans. In these circumstances, the risks today must be borne equally by all three parties: both borrowers and the state that guarantees them the stability of the economy and the financial system, and, of course, banks. And that's why when the Ukrainian state today dropped millions of borrowers, borrowed loans in foreign currency at one rate, and today they can't handle these loans, because the cost of the dollar has increased twice or even more, of course, these risks have to be borne by everyone and, above all, by the banking system. Today we have to put this responsibility on everyone equally, to vote on this bill. And in the future, we have to do everything we can to make interest rates follow European patterns, at European level, then we have a fair system. And don't protect me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, he asks for the floor before we can determine, Minister of Finance. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Once again, I urge you to think calmly about what is being proposed. First of all, the bill that you are about to vote on in the first reading does not provide for any responsibility on the three sides, and then all the damage is translated into commercial banks, and I emphasize that. Secondly, Parliament is not involved in its affairs; it is already setting interest rates at which loans should continue to be issued. Please think about what you are ruining today is the legislative field in which the banking system lives. And the worst. I assure you that the adoption of this bill on the first reading tomorrow will lead to a colossal outflow of bank deposits, tomorrow the course will be completely different, and the responsibility for such a completely populist decision will lie with the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, let's think again, we'll find a way out: we'll break it down into three, we'll do some damage not only to the banking system, but to the people and the National Bank, but we won't accept such a bill. 25 million investors are at risk, please remember! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, I beg of you, let's be calm. Because I want to, you know, when we talk about elections, we forget about reality and we start working exclusively in the populist genre. And Parliament must be responsible until the last day of its work for every decision it makes. And the problem is not simple, it really exists, the problem of investors, the problem, sorry, and investors, by the way, mostly banks. We know how many banks we can't handle right now. And the problem of those who took the currency loan, by the way, at the risk that they took when they took the loan. Therefore, respectable colleagues, attention, we need to understand that when we are told that we care about citizens, we need to take care of all citizens. And a large majority of people can get hurt when banks stop when the issue is not balancedly resolved, and a balanced solution can only be one way – the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the interested party. Dear colleagues! Wait for the vote. So when the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance doesn't make any proposals to solve this problem, it will be a vote that will work against both those on the street and those who aren't yet on the street. And that's why, dear colleagues, I'm still saying, populism is a good thing, but responsibility is also a good thing. We need to get out of the situation, on the one hand, on the other hand, professionally. And I'm the only thing I want to say, Alexander Vitaliyovich, and not supporting the situation today, because we've given time to solve this problem, and we have to solve it, not hide it from it, so that it doesn't make that decision. So, dear colleagues, I want to consult you objectively, let's think about the consequences of all our actions. Dear communists, your position is well known, come on. The offer, fellow believers, along with Minfin, I ask the minister of finance to listen carefully about the week to solve this issue by Tuesday, the next sessional Tuesday. On the next session Tuesday, the first question is the solution. If Minfin fails to solve the problem, we will vote, I will not be able to hold Parliament back and vote on the law. But this law that you're proposing right now, it won't work, it won't work, it won't work, it'll work, it'll work, it'll work. That's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! It's not about the vote, I suggest you do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u234	I also gave the factions of the regions a word. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I propose to support Parliament's proposal that the commission, as part of the specific leadership of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the Committee of Profiles and the working group, which we have been working for two weeks before Tuesday, comes up with a proposal for the adoption of an appropriate decision, or a law. Is such an offer accepted? Please, I ask the faction leaders to comment on this matter in one minute. I continue to work in Parliament. Please, strike faction. Kowalczuk National MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u235	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. Dear colleagues! I think we should support the proposal, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. Because we need to make a balanced decision. On the one hand, we have to solve the problems of the borrowers. But on the other hand, we have to remember that we can create problems for bank investors and investors far more than borrowers. In addition, we today have to preserve the stability of the banking system in such a difficult time for Ukraine. So I think we really need to consider by Tuesday all possible solutions to this problem, along with the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, in order to come up with a consolidated decision Tuesday that will be supported by the government. And we must understand that we must adopt a law that will not be passed by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u236	Thank you. The Communist faction, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u237	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! You've heard and you've seen how the discussion goes, unlike other bills, which in a second are 100 times as long as they don't last. That's the first one. The other one. All those practically speaking were alone if we do not promote the first reading of the so - called working group, the law and your problems will not be solved. We agree that we do not accept the law, we accept it in our first reading. And this is an incentive for the so-called task force to do everything in its power to be accepted as you consider necessary. If we refuse now and go to the point that we let them work again, they'll work like wet burns. And people will die, just like they do now. So let's vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u238	Please, from Freedom, the People's Deputy of Kyle.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u239	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, you remember how difficult it was to vote under the law on the imposition of a moratorium on the alienation of property, in fact, of foreign exchange lenders. But this enabled us to take the next step: to speed up consideration of the problem of our monetary lenders. And actually, if we now vote on this bill in the first reading, it's going to be, again, an incentive for the Ministry of Finance, for the National Bank to make proposals and not hesitate. When a working group makes its proposals, they are covered in some unknown decision or other ephemeral threat. We demand, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, to put this bill to the vote in the first reading to stimulate the very act that is sitting in the offices and thinking about how to save those billionaires and oligarchs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u240	Please, from the "Economic Development" faction, who will be speaking? National MP Homutinnik, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! The question that is being discussed today is, of course, to be discussed first at the level of the Committee, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the National Bank of Ukraine. Today we have chosen a new head of the National Bank of Ukraine, and it would be very good if the newly elected head of the National Bank came out with a concerted initiative to resolve the issue. Otherwise, if we make such decisions in general today, who will answer, how many banks will lie after we vote on such a law? Once the banks are in place, investors will come to the Supreme Council and there will be another question. Therefore, there is no need to make popular decisions; we need to prepare ourselves with balance for this decision. So we'll support your proposal, Mr. Head, for the task force. The initiative must be the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u242	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Doubenkov, faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to emphasize that the proposal, in fact, that was made by Alexander Valentinovich, is in line with the position that the faction of the Party of the Regions stands for. I would like to point out that in terms of the given question, it is balanced. We understand that there is a problem with the currency loans that people have taken. But most of the time, people are adults, and they've taken, frankly, lower interest rates and as a result of the devaluation of the national currency since 1996, maybe they've been predicting the right monetary risks. But above all, we need to be balanced in this matter. Because 25 million investors, as the minister of finance has already said, although it is an opposition government to us, but the faction of the Party of Regions understands that if the bill is adopted in the first reading, unfortunately, it is a populist bill, it will be a social catastrophe. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u244	Thank you. Please, from the "Fatherland" faction Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u245	Sobolje, Fatherland. You know that our faction, our faction colleagues were initiating the same consideration of this issue. And we believe that the only right decision should be made today. First. I think that until we hear the head of the National Bank and the National Bank at all, putting this issue to a vote is purely an adventure, because in the end, we're going to have a balanced situation practically in the whole sphere. Secondly, our proposal is just as specific. We're proposing. There's a week, next week's not a session. Immediately set up a working group and put the first question to the vote on Tuesday. If we vote in that way right now, whoever wants to really like it in the end is going to be in front of these people not knowing where the children's eyes are. So an immediate task force and a solution by next Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u246	Thank you. Please, "North European Ukraine." Please, who's speaking? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u247	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The law is very important. It is unfortunate that Minfin and the task force have not worked out to this day how to adopt this law, which should be the norm. And, of course, it would be worth the law today to vote in the first reading, thus encouraging this working group to really work. Nothing will change if the law is passed in the first reading. This morning we planned to adopt some laws in the first reading, thus enabling them to be discussed in committees and in working groups. Why can’t we do so in this situation? But it should also be said that there are, indeed, many investors, and these investors today are also looking at the adoption of this law. And we have to take an important position. But our faction thinks it's the first reading. does not object to the consideration and the work of the working group in the coming week to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u248	Please, from the non-fractional People's Deputy of God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, I propose to the first reading immediately before the vote that the law is adopted in the first reading, taking into account the principle of risk distribution on three sides: The National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, is a state and a investor. Under such conditions it can and should be voted on in the first reading today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, we've discussed all the questions. I gave everyone a chance to speak to the factions, give them the opportunity to speak out in a non-factional way. Calm down! Dear colleagues, I can predict the situation that is about to take place. Now that the authors insist that laws be adopted in the first reading, they will not be supported by Parliament. After that, I'll give you an assignment, it's an extrasensor's ability. And after that, I'm going to have Tuesday to work out the only law that will be signed by the National Bank, the Government, and the working group of the Supreme Council. Who doesn't believe, we can check the situation now. I put it to the vote in the first reading. I'm betting on the vote in the first reading of draft Law 4895. Please, National Deputy Kowalczuk. The faction manager because. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u251	Dear colleagues! Vitaly Kowalczuk, Faction of the Hitting Party Vitaly Klick. I actually want to go to the drafters right now. What if they take a state position, if they realize that the future of this law depends not only on investors, but also on the banking system and borrowers, and, in general, on the economic system in Ukraine, let us suggest that they withdraw their bills and join the working group with Minfin and Natzbank in issuing a new bill that will be adopted in the Supreme Council. And don't let them excite the people on the street. Because we are all interested in protecting every Ukrainian citizen's rights and freedoms. But let's not speculate on what's going on right now. So once again, I invite the drafters of the bill to withdraw the bill, process and submit a bill that is consistent with the Government and the Nutzbank. So that we can take it as a base and a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u252	I support the offer. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, one minute. The author, are you in favour of the Head of Strike?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u253	So, your honor, I'm, first of all, one line. There is no need to bind deposits to foreign exchange loans. Currency loans were issued at the expense of European banks, they gave their subsidiaries in Ukraine less than 2 percent, they gave the citizens under 12 a profit. We were getting profits, and now we have to take care of bankers, that's the first. And there's no relation to the short money of Ukrainian deposits of the bracelet, that's the first. The second question, my dear colleagues, is this delay, this discussion, I'll tell you, people in the square are saying, "tell me from the rostrum, Vitaly Call before the mayor's election, the head of your party, went out to the people said the faction would give every vote, everyone would pay for this Law. Yulia Timoshenko, leader of your party Timoshenko, will meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u254	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Opanaschenko, one minute. And we make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u255	Dear colleagues! The question is really complicated and it really affects deposits. So to solve it, it really takes banks, Minfine, to work out and give them how to make up for that difference so that there's no banking crisis. But again, I'm saying, there was a period of time -- a month, no proposal from the working group, the abuse was from MPs and citizens. So the proposal to introduce this bill, and the government will draft its bill, and he sees that the Hall is trying to support with all its efforts the compensation offered to the banks. Government Bills are first considered, so there will be nothing. And I'm sure we have an experienced Minister of Finance and no crisis and currency leap, he'll handle it, and that's his main task. So in our country, everything will be quiet, and I'm talking to the citizens. Thus, in the first reading, it can be accepted and, along with the second, adopted a second law regarding the distribution of responsibility. There's no other way out. I'm asking you to support the citizens, support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, since the authors have not supported the proposal to transpose these laws, I am now putting them to the vote. I'm going to predict they're going to fail. Please, Your Honor, and this is the responsibility of the authors of the law, because they understand what I'm going through. Please, Your Honor, determine whether to vote on draft Laws 4895. Please vote in the first reading and on the basis. I would like to make a decision on Parliament. [[14:24:59]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. 28 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 5, Impact – 25, 7 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 23, Freedom – 35, 28 – Company, non-fractional – 23. Next law, honorary colleagues, 4895-1. I would like to base my vote on the first reading. [[14:25:39]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 32, Party of Regions – 6, Impact – 27, 5 – Economic Development, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 27 – non-fractional – 22. What I've been predicting, dear colleagues. So always listen to wise counsel. I'm in charge. Attention! By Tuesday, the next session Tuesday, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank, together with the profile committee and the task force, to prepare the only law we will consider on Tuesday. And I ask you not to delay this question. This is an assignment I'm asking you to take control of. Thank you. I'm making an ad, my esteemed colleagues, one more before the session is over. National MP Bogdan Ruslan reports on the entry into the faction of the Party of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues! This concludes the morning session. Parliament will continue its work at 16 hours. Thank you.
