ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Come in, please, to the hall. Turn on the Council system, let's have the National MPs' registration. [[10:01:19]] There were 299 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Dear colleagues! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Buttons, please write down your respected colleagues. Please, the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union, Sergey Sobolev, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, distinguished representatives of the media! I would like to prove the position of the Fatherland faction, which concerns a key issue on which our faction, like other factions of Parliament, has been insisting for a week. We believe that the ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union, which should be immediately introduced into the session hall, is a guarantee of a course that we did not even choose with you, but that we chose millions of our citizens in the areas on the sites during the Dignity Revolution. This is the course that continues the course of the previous revolution, which has not yet fulfilled its key task: to bring the country to European standards of living, to bring the country into a European way of thinking. And that is why our faction continues to insist that a draft ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union be immediately submitted to Parliament. This paves the way for the country's progress by the key standards that allow for a decent, decent standard of living that allows for democracy in the country and the rule of law. Furthermore, our faction insists that we listen to the voice of the multimillion-dollar public today and put to the vote the Law on Purification of Power, a illustration that will allow us to do everything possible so that perhaps for the first time in all 23 years of independence, the question is that the key parameters of life must be followed by all the fellow citizens of the country. And those who speak for the separation of state, separatism, terrorism, those who speak for the old, cannot continue to exist as one whole in this society. We must clearly divide all those who promote a new way of life, who promote a forward course, into the European Union, and those who draw us back. Third. The election law. The position of our faction remains unchanged: The Election Act should be based on a proportional system of open lists. And the bill was passed by our faction. We believe that this is the only way to preserve the country's territorial integrity: to hold elections throughout the country and to ensure a decent representation in the next Parliament of all the healthy forces of society. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u3	Please, from the Sovereign European Ukraine, Olesia Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Like many deputies, I traveled east these days. Last night, he returned from Lugansk, not only from the peaceful regions he already has, but Svatovo, Starobilska, was also in Happiness, in the Idar Battalion. I'm going to tell you a little story about the growing generation that they were raised in the Soviet Union and they don't know about. There is, for example, Angelica Rudnicka, such a famous singer, an artist. Her uncle was a volunteer, Oleg Mikhaylov, in the Idar Battalion. When surrounded by Russian terrorists, he blew himself up by grenade to get away with his brothers, and 10 of the Isdarites were able to escape. Sadly, society is unaware of such heroic acts. Regrettably, societies still do not provide accurate information about the heroism of Ukrainian volunteers. Coordination is missing. Yes, for this coordination, the issue could be resolved by the military state, the introduction of martial law in Luhansk, Donetsk. Sadly, the authorities decided not to do so. Yes, the election was to be held a month after the war ended, then heroes, including those who are now in military operations, could participate in the election campaign. Unfortunately, this was not done, and the country has already come to the election campaign. In this situation, at least to help our guys who are fighting against the enemy, against an evil enemy who, in his capacity as humanitarian convoys, now wants to run tanks and towns again. Coordination is not enough. In this situation, interpersonal disputes, including in Parliament, are played by the enemy. The law on illustration, the cleansing of power is a necessity, however it pleases some MPs. So the request is now: less internal strife, you need to focus on help and less now not just criticism, but distrust of our strength. Volunteers are the gold fund of Ukraine, and they must be respected, respected and helped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u5	Anatoly Kinach, from the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! The "Economic Development" is turning to your responsibility to the state and the Ukrainian people. As the risk of war deepens in the East, the systemic socio-economic crisis is gradually turning Ukraine into a region that is dealing with the global confrontation between world players. And in these circumstances, the joint consolidated actions of the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers for the support of society are decisive. We are deeply concerned that everyone is gradually becoming involved in the cynical, dirty temptation of other political scenarios, and at the same time the issues that are at hand with legislative and executive decisions are not resolved. In principle, taking into account today’s order of the day, it is not only national interests, public interests in terms of the current situation, but also the strict implementation of the Rules. Therefore, the integration of Economic Development requires strict adherence to article 47 of the Supreme Council Rules, which provides for the personal vote of each national MP on matters of national, national significance. And, of course, in general, in the matter of the order of the day. And we will act adequately. It's fundamental, and we're paying attention to the national MPs, the issue of the defense of the state. And we don't understand why the results of the parliamentary hearings of "Ukraine's Defence: the 21st Century" are the last in the order of today's session. We suggest that we look at it as one of the top priorities, referring to the systemic problems of the defence sector in Ukraine. It's very important not to forget the events in the East in the context of socio-economic issues. The government needs to take immediate action on the issue of exports of agricultural products, clear standards of assistance to the economy, industry, and business, which have, in fact, destroyed and destroyed economic development in the East today. The National Bank must today, in our view, speak — the Head of Government — and report on the devaluation issues of the bracelets from which the economy and our citizens suffer. Ladies and gentlemen, the unification of Economic Development calls for you to unite around the issues on which the future of our nation and the Ukrainian people depends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u7	From the MP's "For Peace and Stability" National MP Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I don't think we're all well in the country so we can afford to work one day this plenary. I think there are a lot of issues that need to be considered: this is also the Election Act, this is the laws about the economy, this is the laws about the restoration of peace in the East, so the first question I suggest you continue to work all week so that every day of the week is a plenary week. If necessary, continue next week. The second is the election laws, which are now going to be the most important for the whole country, because that's exactly what this is going to be. It is the people who will evaluate the members of the election and present the illustration. And what kind of law we're going to adopt -- that kind of power is going to be in people. Therefore, if it is proposed to hold lists or open or closed lists, many of the deputies have promised that the authorities will allow the public organizations to pass over to parliament, thus reducing the barrier to two percent. If we made such promises, we must keep them. Therefore, the Electoral Law should provide for a reduction of the passing percentage barrier to two percent and the block to five percent. This will be open to Ukrainian citizens and we will thus take down the monopoly of the great capital and oligarchs in the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Everybody knows how much a big campaign costs to get a big percentage. Third. This is what we need to foresee a clear plan for the restoration of Donbas infrastructure in the near future and for this week to consider it. There's a really big, let's say, humanitarian disaster, and the refugee problem, the refugee treatment program, and the ATO veterans, who are already over 50,000. We need to clearly develop the program and consider it. It's in this plenary week. It's not enough that we don't have the authority because in the parliamentary-presidential republic, the coalition is a virtually fundamental medium of power, that the coalition has given up responsibility and has gone aside, leaving the government and the President alone with all the problems. And I don't think we can shorten the work week. And the main question is to increase wages for our citizens. A thousand 200 bucks is bread and water for people. If we don't increase our salary to 25 dollars an hour, in the rest of Ukraine, let's say, that's how the Ukrainian people's genocide and the destruction of Ukrainian labour potential will be. So Law 4842 is the most important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u9	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u10	And I will insist that I also include it in the agenda and look at it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u11	People's deputy Shufrich from the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Let's call things, after all, by our names. There's a war going on in the country today. It is war, not an anti-terrorist operation, in which both soldiers and civilians are killed. The United Nations estimates show that thousands of victims are already accounted for. During the past 40 days, only about 500 soldiers have died, 10 times the number before the truce. However, the warlords do not always receive the status of a participant in hostilities who have left the zone of hostilities, unfortunately, do not receive refugee status. Tragedy is accompanied not only by grief and destruction but also by deception. And it's even scarier than that. Are our citizens aware of the number of direct casualties in the war? A figure that includes loss and loss of life and disability of citizens, breadwinners and representatives of productive forces of society? A figure that includes losses from the destruction of infrastructure facilities, factories, roads, bridges? A figure that includes losses from business stoppages? A figure that includes loss of economic ties? A figure that includes rising unemployment? Some estimates suggest that 4.5 million people have lost their jobs. Today, this figure is only in general represented by representatives of the authorities who hope solely for Western aid and an avocacy. The war in the eastern part of the country has placed the entire population at the brink of survival, especially the budget. What to do with them, the government has no idea. Moreover, power cannot today not only ensure peace in the country, which must be the only condition of a normal political process, including parliamentary elections. The authorities cannot enforce the law in Ukraine, especially in the East. Arbitrary and violence, the arbitrary arrest of the Ydarovites by the mayor of Lugansk Sergey Kravchenko, the mayor of Severodontsk Kozakov, the secretary of the Donetsk Mountains Sergey Bogachev, are all clear examples of lawlessness. Today, we ask the question: Do elections need to be held in these circumstances? Of course we do. However, today we must understand the responsibility of these elections if no elections are held in 44 districts. This means that today we are removing the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, from the map of Ukraine. For what? For the sake of ambition, one politician, the President, who wants to strengthen his influence in the Supreme Council and strengthen his power. In due time, I turned to you, February 23rd, that we have to do everything we can to make the Celestial 100, those are the losses that our country will stop at. Today we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u13	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u14	Today, unfortunately, we have to say that we have a "Donbasian thousand" and we still don't know where the end of our citizens' deaths is. Peace is the only way out of the crisis. Dialogue for peace. Negotiations for peace, not peace at any cost: the price of our children, our fathers, our brothers. We have to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u15	From the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union, Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u16	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! All this terrible painting that we have just heard from the representative of the Party of the Regions has to be put on the conscience of the Party of the Regions and their allies of the Communists, who hopefully are the last to sit in this room, and the next Parliament will no longer have those villains in our nation's highest legislative body. This is what led to the financing of separatism, terrorism! It was they who held speculative talks with the Ukrainian authorities after Janukovic fled to break part of the budget pie! It was their oligarchs who invested money in this war and in civil opposition. They were the ones who regularly traveled to Moscow, asking for military assistance, including military assistance. And now they still have a conscience to come out here on the rostrum and stare at the fact that there's a thousand of them. But all those thousands of people on your conscience! And you're thinking of getting away from them? Don't wash up! If you don't get rid of Heaven's blood, everyone will be responsible. Therefore, at the conclusion of our Parliament, the Ukrainian Supreme Council must adopt a number of very important decisions. First of all, we demand a week's work, not just on Tuesday. Imagine how our soldiers are on the eastern front, huh? Will there be only one Tuesday to fight with the Moscow invader? How, then, can we win the war? Everyone has to stay here and work. The other one. We need to adopt the Law on Cleanse of Power, on Illustration (4359a). "Freedom" had its own bill, but we voluntarily agreed to co-sponsor this bill on the cleansing of power. Along with other deputies, we are now the majority, this law should stand in Parliament. And I remember the first time in April 2005, that's when, after the victory of the Orange Revolution, I passed a bill of illustration, if they had listened to Freedom and voted in favour of the illustration, I wouldn't be President Yanukovich, there wouldn't be so many victims. And today, Ukraine would be different. Next. Today we have to clearly vote on the law: the proportional system behind open lists -- what Ukrainian society expects. In no case do we have to allow the Yanukowice 50/50 majority-proportional system, because this is actually the preservation of the oligarchs here in Parliament. And next, about sanctions. We have to vote on the government bill, but I want you to know that only in May did Freedom submit six bills of sanctions against the Kremlin against Moscow. Why didn't you listen to us then? Why didn't they vote for those sanctions? There would be another situation today. "Freedom" is constantly passing the right laws, and it's too late for them to be approved, and we bite our elbows, but together we need to concentrate and win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u17	Please. The leader of the strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u18	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today, the Supreme Council can repay at least part of its debts to society. These walls had a time of responsible decisions when the dictator was overthrown, but at the same time these walls remember the shameful January 16 vote. This call for parliament is short, and that is fair. Today, however, there is still a chance to fulfill its responsibility. The first is the duty to clean up power. The relevant law on the cleansing of power has been registered in Parliament. Yes, it needs work, but we need to start working on it and put it in the agenda so that we can work together with the public organizations and make a positive decision on this law. Because illustration, or cleansing, is the main requirement of society for power today. The other one. Parliament's early elections are also a step towards cleaning up power. But it is very important for citizens to have maximum control over which deputies will work in the next parliament. That's why the strike party will support the Election Act for a proportional system for open lists. That is what most democratic forces have claimed. Time to confirm the words with concrete action! And the last. It is impossible to allow those who have been behind the most disgraceful actions in this room, whose hands are the blood of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, to continue to enjoy the MP's immunity and, under this protection, plan to go to the next election. We must remove the touch, at least the deputies of Kaletnik and Olinik, who conducted the criminal vote on January 16th. We also call on the Attorney General's Office to address the Supreme Council for the removal of the intactities of those who supported terrorism, financed separatist movements, tried to use them in their dirty games, and take responsibility for the blood that is shed on Donbassa today. It's time to pay off the debt. The Vitalia Klitschka faction calls for everyone to be responsible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Many nonfractional deputies also have a desire to speak. In order for this to be an objective decision, the request to register with non - factional deputies is now being made. The first to be selected by the Council system will be given the opportunity to speak. Please sign up, non-fractional deputies. Please turn on the broadcast to the street. People's deputies are insolent, non-fractional, please. He gives the word Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! The first thing I'd like to draw your attention to is the cynicism of our northern neighbor. First, Donbas was bombed, thousands of our citizens, our military personnel were killed. Now they're sending us humanitarian aid. We don't need Putin's paws, we don't need Putin's macaroni! They try to hang this paw on the ears of the entire civilized world, lying about the Nazis killing civilians in Ukraine. I appeal to the Ukrainian authorities, to the President of Ukraine, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the Prime Minister. What humanitarian aid from Russia? What are you talking about? Russia is destroying our country, and you from Russia are agreeing to receive humanitarian aid?Oh, my God! Praise God, there is no famine in Ukraine, and all Ukraine is helping Donbas today by supporting the residents of Donbas, supporting Ukrainian military personnel by sending help there! So stop fooling around. No humanitarian, inhumane aid from Russia! They've already sent us humanitarian aid -- the Boozes, which are being hit by passenger planes, the Towns, which are killing our troops from Divisions, from volunteer battalions, from the National Guard! How much longer are we going to be receiving humanitarian aid?Oh, my God! The best part is to close the border to stop their so-called humanitarian aid, and in fact, death. The second thing I'd like to focus on. What have we been up to, gentlemen? Why did we have a revolution in Maidan? Do you want Golenko to walk on Kiev, the secessionist in Lugansk or Clinchayev?Oh, my God! Or that there should be almost half of Parliament in the Supreme Council -- the Separatists' manuals. This is where Medjannik, Gorokhov, walked. Ask them what they do when it's not a plenary week. They go to Moscow and pour dirt on Ukraine, on Ukrainian soldiers from Russian TV channels. The detained mayor of Stahanova Borisov, the detained mayor of Lugansk Kravchenko, showed Alexander Ephraim that Ephraim and Bolotov had organized a referendum meeting, financed a separatist referendum. Mr. Ephraim continues to walk like a goose on the Supreme Council. How do you go to the Supreme Council? You're going down the subway. Why don't you go and get people to see you and everyone else who's betrayed the country? I'm asking you, Your Honor, to close the underground passages or we'll flood them with water, or we'll run the gas there. Stop running like rats on underground crossings. You're called the People's Deputies, go through the people, and let the people spit in your face because of what you do, because you're betraying the country. And you hide from men because you are cowards, because you betrayed your Fatherland because you sold your family for a ruble. So get out of the hall of traitors!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, representatives of all the MPs and groups, spoke. Now we need to move on to the issues that the Supreme Council should consider today. Dear colleagues, here many speakers raised questions about electoral legislation. Of course, the Supreme Council of the Seventh Calling before its final stage of work. There is certainly hope that the new Supreme Council will work much better, much more effectively. But in order to choose an effective Supreme Council, honest transparent elections surely need to be changed to electoral legislation. That is why, honourable colleagues, the first cluster of issues around which there are many debates, is the subject of changes in electoral legislation. We discussed with the leaders of the MP factions and groups the technology of our work in this direction. Next offer, dear colleagues. The MPs of many factions insisted on a proportional system of electoral legislation, namely the restoration of this particular issue in electoral legislation. And you can see that the first cluster of issues is related to changes in electoral legislation related to the restoration of a proportional system, including open lists. So let's say this is as follows, dear colleagues. Now we're going to try to put into the order of the day the questions that are given to all the national MPs today. In the event that none of these projects are included in the agenda, we agreed that there would be a break to consult between the leaders of the MP factions and the groups in order to enter into a harmonized draft law. Dear colleagues, therefore, the request is not to waste time because there are many important issues that we need to consider today, dear colleagues. And now, by voting, you're going to demonstrate everything. Now, now. Personally, of course, only to vote in person. Dear colleagues, we have, in accordance with the Constitution, only a personal vote. Please, Your Honor, sit on your seats, prepare your right hand so you can press the button correctly. Let's work on how the Supreme Council works -- responsible and inspired. So, honourable colleagues, please identify yourself as Supreme Council for the inclusion in the agenda of today's session and the corresponding session of the draft Electoral Law to the Supreme Council (No. 4906), the bill's author is the national MP, Miroshnichenko. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[10:33:22]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 61, Regions – 0, Impact – 36, Economic Development – 0, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 2, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 19. Next question, colleagues, buttons, buttons, not your hands! Please, the 4906-1 National MP, Rudzkowski, proposes to support his draft law. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself (4906-1) as to the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[10:34:14]] For-160. That's a better result. The factions, please. Parenthood – 65, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 35, Economic Development – 0, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 3, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues! The next draft of the law has registration number 4906-2, the author is National Deputy Kosulinski, under the auspices of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, please, about the inclusion. Nice, nice law. concerning the inclusion of it in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:35:10]] For-167 You can see an even better result, 167, but it's not a decision you're making, dear colleagues. The factions, please. 69, "Paternity", "Party of the Regions" 0, "PUNCH" 39, it's working as fast as possible. "Economic development" is 0, "For Peace and Stability" is 0, "North European Ukraine" is 3, "Freedom" is 35, non-fractional is 21. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies (to improve the procedure for the distribution of parliamentary mandates among candidates for election). It's Mikolia Rudzkowski's bill again. Mikola Rudzkowski asks, you see, to support him. Please make up your mind, 4304a. Then. (Noise in the hall) Dear colleagues, we gave a talk and discussed it. It's okay. Colleagues. (Noise in the hall) Push the button. 4304a, please specify for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. [[10:36:39]] For 178. No decision taken, my dear fellows. The factions. (Noise in the hall) For the best yet, see? Colleagues. Parenthood – 64, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 38, Economic Development – 1, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 2, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, this is the bill, Sergey Sobolev. Draft law on introduction. Draft law on the election of Ukrainian national deputies for open party lists. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Sergio Sobolev. Sergey Sobolev asks for one minute to comment. (Noise in the hall) Oh, no? Well, I'm sorry. Sergei, come on! All in equal conditions. I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold this law. I have this feeling that he's going to show the best result right now. Please support everyone! Please vote. [[10:37:53]] For-200 200 votes! The decision is not taken, but it's the best result, your honor, 200 votes. The factions, please. Parenthood – 73, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 37, Economic Development – 0, Peace and Stability – 14, Sovereign, European Ukraine – 2, Freedom – 34, non-fractional – 40. Some people are heartbroken, aren't they? Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by the leader of the "Northern, European Ukraine" faction, and he insists that, nevertheless, his law, which offers a 100 percent majority system (registration number 4010a) should also be considered regarding the inclusion of dogs in the agenda. Can I put it up? I can make sure everyone decides to be an MP in all the formats. Please, Your Honor, please vote for inclusion in the agenda (4010a), please vote. [[10:39:11]] For-95 Close, but no decision is made. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we went through everything, everything. Colleagues, come on, after everything we discussed on the Conciliation Council yesterday, the laws. Regrettably, the Supreme Council did not make the decision, as predicted. Therefore, honorary colleagues, according to the arrangement, are declared a half - hour break of up to 11 hours for 10 minutes. I ask the leaders of the MP factions and groups to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council to consult on changes in electoral legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. The staff of the secretariat are requested to make an announcement in the towers of the Supreme Council and invite all the nationals to the session hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please come in. Come in, come in! Dear colleagues, it has been very difficult to reach a Conciliation Council with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions and have determined on the next algorithm for our actions towards adopting changes to electoral legislation, namely: two bills are now being tabled for consideration by the people's deputies. First bill, he's got registration number 4470a. It has a title: "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies" (for the Improvement of Individual Provisions). Individual positions, honourable colleagues, are a proportional position in electoral legislation, i.e. a proportional system with lists that can be published in a timely manner, which will be publicized before the electoral process begins. Once again, my dear colleagues, this is a proportional election system with actually open lists. Or partially open, let's say. And the second draft of the Ukrainian Act is to amend some of Ukraine's laws to improve legislation on the conduct of national parliamentary elections (registration number 4471a). This is a project that deals with bringing the current electoral legislation into line. This law is about shortening the deadline for elections to the Supreme Council. It deals with technological issues that will provide a transparent electoral system and other issues related to the regulation of the electoral process on the basis, I reiterate, a valid electoral system, that is, a mixed electoral system. At the suggestion of faction leaders, first we'll try to include in the order of the day project 4470a, which relates to the proportional election system. Please, come on, I can see your hands. One minute I'll give the author of the project Sobolje Sergey Vladislavovich, then -- I see a few hands -- from this issue. It's about getting in the daytime, once again, dear colleagues. Please, we can get out of here so we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Now, your point is to propose a bill that modifies the electoral system that was run by both the election and the turnaround in 2006-2007. The modification is that lists of parties are being opened, they are being reviewed by all Ukrainian citizens at the moment of approval and then by the time they are posted at all polling stations. In addition, this bill foresees those novels that everyone else has said: "This is the introduction of voting blocks, the reduction of electoral campaign and the reduction of election funding." So if we really want to upgrade parliament, to upgrade power, that's the only way -- the law that allows this to be done with the new electoral system, so that the election doesn't have money to compete, but there was a competition for ideas, there was a competition for those proposals that parties and their candidates made in those elections. So please support my bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we put the vote to the vote? Please, People's Deputy Philippeenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u25	Thank you, Mr. Head. Economic Development Group, Vladimir Filipenko, Poltavščina. Of course the MPs will determine themselves, but, Alexandre Valentinovich, our group asks you very much that when we vote in favour of these two bills, we comply with the requirements of the Rules. The point is, there's undeniable evidence that MPs who aren't just in the room who haven't even been registered on the desks of a written registration are physically absent from the Council, and on the system you can point out that their cards are somehow voted on, that is, they are defined by those deputies who are not in favour or against. If you have to get a name, it's a last name, for example, for your colleague Zhivago. As far as I can tell, he's not in the hall right now, but his card voted in favour of one of the bills. We ask you very much to meet the requirements of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me tell you! We ask you very much to meet the requirements of the Rules so that everything is actually under the Rules, under the Rules of Procedure Act, to announce those MPs who are absent, who are on vacations (such information as you have according to the Supreme Council's apparatus) and those MP cards that are not available, to block and remove in order to be individually voted on both by law and by another. Thank you. This is our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare me a list of missing deputies. And I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to adhere solely to the requirements of the Constitution for personal voting, to vote solely for yourself, because this is a responsible question and it actually applies to the format of the fair and transparent elections in our tap. Dear colleagues! Please prepare for the vote, and once again I emphasize that we are now considering the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the 4470a project, which relates to the amendment of the Law on Elections of National Deputies (for the improvement of regulations), is a proportional system reported by Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:03:51]] For a hundred and The factions, please. Parenthood – 74, Party of Regions – 1, Impact – 31, Economic Development – 0, Peace and Stability – 12, Sovereign European Ukraine – 2.35 – Freedom, 37 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, next question. This refers to the inclusion in the agenda of the bill (registration number 4471) "To amend certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of legislation on the conduct of elections of Ukrainian national deputies". This is about making honest transparent choices of the valid form of the mixed electoral system. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that if we don't adopt any laws at all, including this one, modified, we have a sufficiently problematic and unbalanced law, which was taken by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and which was followed by the last elections. And I think it's our responsibility to bring it into line with the requirements of both the Venice Commission and other norms. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to determine whether to include in the agenda a bill (4471a) amending some of the legislation on improving legislation on the conduct of the elections of Ukraine's national deputies. Please vote. [[12:05:46]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 26, Regions – 1, 34 - Impact, Economic Development – 26, Peace and Stability – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, Freedom – 0, non-fractional – 29. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, no questions are supported. No questions asked, dear colleagues. Please, for the reasons of Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. I'll give you a chance, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u27	Sobolje, Fatherland. As predicted, and discussed in the working group and in the session room, apparently the largest number of votes is a proportional system with open lists. 200 votes were won by my bill, which provides for the possibility of implementing itself to party leaders, and that is 10 seats that are guaranteed to the party's leadership positions. All other places are actually distributed by voters, citizens of Ukraine. I propose, in this case, that the barrier be reduced in order to allow the new parties to compete in the same way in the elections. And to compete, not with money, because of a 12-and-a-half million dollar mortgage, but to give the parties the opportunity to make the most of the election. I propose once again to put to the vote my law in favour of society, which requires all the choices to be held today in an honest, transparent, proportionate manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u28	Thank you. National MP Miroshnichenko, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u29	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! We, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, in particular Igor Miroshnichenko and Alexander Mirnem, were registered in the Supreme Council of the Electoral Code (No. 4010). Regrettably, he was not yet considered and voted in favour of inclusion in the agenda. This electoral code foresees and takes into account many requirements, including the Venice Commission, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There are elections for open party lists with regional representation. It includes not only participation in electoral commissions but not so much in parliamentary parties and those outside Parliament. There is also the requirement that Sergey Sobolev spoke of: a reduction of the voting barrier to 3 percent. For the new Parliament to be truly new. We insist that our bill also be considered regarding its inclusion in the agenda. And I guarantee you that Ukrainians who hide behind their chairs today and don't vote for changes to electoral legislation, they won't forgive you for that. Because there are major MPs here who are happy to respond to the fact that once again we fail, we don't put in order the day-to-day drafts on the proportional election system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u30	Please. I got the offer. Dear colleagues, close the block of issues related to changes in electoral legislation. Let's not waste time, the proposal to put it into the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, calm down. The proposal was for the Freedom MPs to try to put the daily Law 4010a into order. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify your deputies for inclusion in the agenda of 4010a. Please vote. [[12:09:39]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions. 73 – "Fatherhood", 0 – "Regions", "BALL" – 35.0 – "Economic development", "For Peace and Stability" – 0.1 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35 – non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, please, dear colleagues, let's not practice who can speak louder without a microphone. We must now continue to work with you in accordance with the order of the day. Very important questions, responsible questions. We'll be ready to return after 16, please hold consultations between the factions, and we'll be back. There will be no arrangement for us to have a successful vote. Colleagues, I repeat, consult with factions, make the decision of the faction to place at least ten times the same law, I will do it. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I was approached by factions' leaders, and during a meeting with factions' leaders, there was an initiative of several MPs and factions to invite a 16-hour head of the National Bank of Ukraine to inform parliament about the situation in the financial market of Ukraine. The situation, you see, is very tense and problematic. So at 16 o'clock, when Parliament supports, I invite the head of the National Bank to speak with information. Period. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable colleagues, motives. Find such a form in the Rules, I've allowed the Freedom faction to speak for reasons. Dear colleagues, the issue of ratification, a very important question, 0091. This is a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and Malaysia on the deployment of Malaysian personnel to Ukraine in connection with the fall of Malaysian Airlines. Dear colleagues, please invite me to the Parliamentary Chamber of Foreign Minister Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich. People's deputies, please, we have a lot of important questions to follow up on this brief procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[12:12:11]] For 212 Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen of the people! I present to your consideration the proposal by the President of Ukraine to ratify the agreement between Ukraine and Malaysia on the deployment of Malaysian personnel to Ukraine in connection with the fall of the Malaysian Airlines flight MN17. I am very grateful for your support of similar agreements with Holland and Australia. It is very important for our nation to continue the impartial and comprehensive investigation of the Malaysian Airlines tragedy that occurred on July 17th as a result of the terrorist attack. We are taking all possible steps to fulfil our international legal and political obligations to ensure the objectivity and transparency of the investigation, to establish and punish the perpetrators of this crime against humanity. On July 24, Ukraine decided to transfer the investigation of the disaster to the Kingdom of the Netherlands, whose citizens were most affected by the tragedy. Experts from many countries, ICAO experts and, of course, Ukrainian experts are actively involved in this investigation. As I said, the respective agreements with the Kingdom of the Netherlands and Australia have been signed and ratified. I would like to point out that Malaysian personnel who will be sent to Ukraine under the agreement are not the military unit of the Malaysian Armed Forces. Its main activity will be to contribute to the collection of remains and to investigate the causes of the aviation disaster in accordance with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u32	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u33	I would like the people's deputies to support the President's proposal and decide on the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u34	Thank you, Pavel Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, can we make a decision without discussing it? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can. The important question is, I'm sure. Colleagues, without discussion, can we accept? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can. Dear colleagues, please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Malaysia on the deployment of Malaysian personnel to Ukraine in connection with the crash of the plane "Malaysian Airlines" (registration No. 0091). Please support as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:15:39]] For 311 Decision taken, thank you. Dear colleagues, I see your hand lifting. Oleg Jaroslavovich, I understand that this will be a proposal for inclusion in the agenda. We're going to have a block right now. Now, Oleg Jaroslavovich, the block will be an issue of inclusion in the agenda and I will then be able to make and make proposals. Now, honourable colleagues, please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and Japan on the loan agreement on development policy, on economic reforms between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Japanese Agency for International Cooperation. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this with you? We can. I ask you very much to support, on the basis of this whole ratification project, because the resources for our country, especially in order to restore the economy of our crane, are essential. And working with the Japanese government is a very important strategic direction for us. Please, Your Honor, support the project (0090) on the basis and in general, please vote, Your Honor. [[12:17:06]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is something so professional that the Supreme Council has begun to work? Is the second breath open? Colleagues, now we have a huge cluster of issues related to the inclusion in the agenda and the decision - making process. I will now give you, my fellow Members, a word, the only thing I would like to ask is the staff of the secretariat, the government secretariat, to ask the government, to inform you that the government will soon begin to ask questions and I would like to come forward, other government officials to address many of the issues that relate to the strategic reform initiatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues! You and I have a serious enough block here, and I know that there are also deputies, Oleg Jaroslavovich, we're going to go through the block and I'm going to give, and Freedom is a proposal for inclusion. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, guys, let's do it again. Colleagues, let's be respectful. The factions determined the order of the day. I understand there's going to be a proposal for a illustration. I'd be happy to give you the word first, I'll give you the hand raised by Oleg Jaroslavovich, he'll make an offer, you'll support it hot, and I'll put it to the vote. But let's not lose the process until he's gone, and he's gone pretty well. Hence, respectable colleagues are involved in the daytime and decision - making process. I would like to draw attention to the decree (4401a). The question is very simple. You know, now that we're restoring the power system in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which have been destroyed by terrorists, in which we are actually forced to re-establish power from zero, 100 percent of the force structures are being upgraded, particularly the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We have to say that in the cities that were liberated were completely destroyed, the esteemed colleagues, the material and technical base on which both the executive structures and the power structures worked. And that's why there's an offer, my dear colleagues: in order to save money for the Supreme Council's work, there's an offer to give up a large car park of the Supreme Council and to hand it over to the employees, sorry, to the power structures that work in the free cities, towns, villages, villages of Donetsk and Lugansk. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss supporting this bill? Yes, we can, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can't. I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, this is a draft decree on the transfer of individual property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council to the balance sheet of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. It's about, uh, honorary colleagues, the transfer of the 41st car, according to the appendix that is. Victor Mikhailovich, do you have a question? Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u35	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I looked at the question of the appendix. I looked at this list. In this list of 12-year-old cars. Maybe we'll have some courage and sacrifice something more serious and give up more cars and not 12-year-old cars. I suggest that this list be expanded by means of new cars. We can all get to work on our own at the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we can give up light transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u36	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, I think all MPs support such a correct proposal. So this is the next request. This list, which is already composed, is supported, and the deputies are offered proposals to a regulatory committee that deals with all proposals. I think you can give away your own transportation if you want, can't you? Not just the Supreme Council? Colleagues, let's do this. And that's how we're going to complete this determination. And now, dear fellows, I ask you to understand the position, without discussion, without an unnecessary pianist support this initiative and first to include this determination in the order of the day. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the order of the day's decree (4401a) concerning the transfer of property to the Supreme Council. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. [[12:22:00]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. And now, dear colleagues, the offer: to support the whole as well. Please support, fellow believers, on the basis of the project as a whole (4401a). Please vote. [[12:22:27]] For 303 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, regarding the additional property that the Supreme Council may transfer to the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please make suggestions to the Regulatory Committee. We're going to do it quickly, and we're going to do an addition to that. The Supreme Council, for the first time, honourable colleagues, gives you a reminder. In the past, she was the only one who had taken up additional resources. And now not only have we reduced the funding of the Supreme Council, but we are really giving up property that can work in our own country. Dear friends with respect to the offer of further work. I very much ask, fellow honourable Members, now we have a few questions that I have brought to order by the President of Ukraine of the day and asked them to be considered prime. Now we're talking about a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of charity taxation. It's a volunteer movement, dear friends. Volunteers who raise resources to provide our Armed Forces, the National Guard, to help our heroes protect our country. And for there to be no problem in taxing this charity and very important assistance, this project is being submitted by the President. Colleagues, the request is to include it first before voting, in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project, I recall (register number 4455a) in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:24:25]] For 279 Decision taken. Please, national deputy Jeremeyev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u37	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! There is a bill submitted by the President's Administration or the President. But there are three alternatives, the same in fact. We'd like them to be included in the daytime and then in the daytime. Because each of these bills has its own good, right things that today could help volunteers and our military who are taking part in the ATO. If I may, I'll read the bill numbers, it's an alternative bill on exactly the same issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u38	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u39	Bill 4172a, Bill 4173a and Bill 4176a. These are three similar bills. Please enter into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I have an offer that I hope will be supported by you. Given what there are, in fact, alternative bills is the proposal to adopt the Presidential Bill in the first reading and to work with these three drafts to take it into account for the second reading, so that we will then adopt the Bill as a whole. So that we don't drag out any better. I think there's a lot of positives to take into account and put them together in the same project. Do you accept, Your Honor? Thank you so much for your support. Colleagues, offer. Can we then vote on it without discussion in the first reading? Taking into account the information provided by the national deputy Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich, in order to further develop these three projects. Is it accepted? Roger that. Please support this on the basis of the first reading of this project, taking into account the development of it, including the three projects that Igor Mironovich called. Please, Your Honor, back up as a basis, that is, in the first reading. [[12:26:44]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you very much, dear colleagues, very effectively today the Supreme Council is working, and I'm going to knock on it to keep it going. Colleagues, just one request, let's vote for the brief procedure so that we can prepare it for the second reading. Please support this initiative for the summary procedure. Please vote. [[12:27:23]] For-200 Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. That is, the whole procedure will address the issue. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Honorable Fellows, 226. What are you talking about? It's a short-term procedure. Can we vote again? You don't have to? Okay. Dear colleagues! The next issue is also related to the problems that arise in the ATO area. This is a draft law on the execution of justice and criminal conduct in connection with the conduct of an antiterrorist operation. Dear colleagues, I'd like you and I to put this issue in the agenda first, and then give it a chance. It will have to be discussed, so it has enabled the rapporteur to inform us more about this project. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda (4447a). Please vote. [[12:28:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 64, Regions – 0, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 15, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 19, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has given hope to all citizens that it will work effectively and effectively, and this is an important issue, dear colleagues. Then we can go back to it again. But now the next question that is proposed to be included in the agenda is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procurator's Act on the Establishment of Military Prosecutors. Dear colleagues, there is a request to include him in the agenda in order to discuss him and make a decision. Dear colleagues, 4446a, please include, support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please, Your Honor, vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:29:55]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 54 – "Paternality", Regions – 1.34 – "CHAPTER", 26 – "Economic development", "For Peace and Stability" – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 12, "Freedom" – 35, "non-factional" – 30. Dear colleagues, this question is not included in the agenda, I hope that there is more chance in the next law. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for budgetary decentralization). Please, Your Honor, 4435, the question of decentralization is relevant to all political forces, to all regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues to join us. Colleagues, we've been praised by the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, 4435, please include in the agenda of the session. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[12:31:14]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 53, Regions – 0, Impact – 34, Economic Development – 2, Peace and Stability – 20, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Freedom – 0, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues! The next question is related to the budget changes to increase the expenditure of CEVCs on non-recurrent elections, but there is one serious problem. Until we've changed the electoral legislation, which reduces the time-limit for elections that make other procedural things, the more the mortgage increases, the more we can't go to budget changes. That's why, dear fellows, this is a question we can only consider once the Supreme Council decides on changes to electoral legislation. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Colleagues, chorus, I don't hear your advice very important. So, honourable national MPs, I would ask that we consider this issue together with changes to electoral legislation. It doesn't make any sense. Next question, your colleagues, is the draft of the Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against the Fundamentals of National Security, Public Security and Corruption, by Colleagues. I'd like to, please. Colleagues, can we put it in the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u41	We can. I would ask you, colleagues, to identify yourself as a fight against corruption, with other particularly dangerous crimes related to the protection of the national security of the country. Please, distinguished national deputies, regardless of the political direction of your party work, support this project with regard to its inclusion in the agenda. 4448a please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:33:52]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 61, Party of Regions – 0, Strike – 34, 2 – Economic Development, Peace and Stability – 0.26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 21. Dear colleagues, next question. The Prime Minister himself asked to inform Parliament. I'll put it off until the Prime Minister can come to us or send his representative to report. We have another technical question, dear colleagues. And then I'll give the floor to the MPs who wanted to support the issue of Law 4359a. In particular, honourable colleagues are talking about removing disagreements in the text of Ukraine's adopted Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on food products – Act 4179a. This law was passed by the Supreme Council. Sadly, though, technical disagreements arose during the adoption. Is there a representative of the profile committee? You, Victor Mikhailovich, on that matter? Turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! This disagreement in the law that Parliament has adopted. Well, I've got a six-page text. This is a testimony to how we work. When a law is adopted without discussion, without receipt, without compliance, without the ability to speak. And then you have to take a lot of details. Please, Alexander Valentinovich, follow the rules. Allow us at least to hear the law that we are discussing. And as for the substance of these changes, I propose to support, support these changes, refinements. But please follow the rules, let's hear what the law is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u43	Honorary colleagues refer to 131 articles of the Rules, according to which the Supreme Council, in the case of a professional committee, considers that there are questions in the law that need to be clarified during the re-vote, in accordance with 131 articles of the Rules referred to by Valerius Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Victor Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, Pinzenik, we can now specify by voting. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u44	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, in the work of both Parliament and any other person who tries to do something does not rule out mistakes. But I am very grateful to both the deputies and the Head of the Supreme Council for the moment that this law was passed. Because if we did, we wouldn't have this law to this day, which actually opens the way for our agricultural and agricultural producers to go to Europe. And the fact that we have disagreements and refinements is just a small part of the big process that started. And thank God we were able to vote on this bill. And the Supreme Council in today’s warehouse and today’s state of affairs is completely paralyzed. And if we hadn't passed such a law then, we would never have voted it. So let us go to the polls and then follow all the norms and requirements that society has set before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, before going to the elections, however, the proposal is in line with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Support the proposals of a professional agrarian committee, which are handed down to the national deputies who specify the positions of this law. And that's the way to support it in general. No objection, dear colleagues? This is about supporting the agricultural sector. And I'm convinced that all interested in making the agricultural sector a locomotive that's going to pull our economy out of the crisis. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal and support the 4179 bill, taking into account the suggestions made by the committee. Please vote. [[12:38:44]] For 216 Dear colleagues, I beg you, I see that our purely disorganization has prevented us from supporting the agrarians. Catherine Timofievna, behind you are the boys who don't vote and don't support the agrarians. We're not just aviation, we're supposed to support agrarians. Can we go back to that question? I ask you, my fellow Members, the APC is the strategic sector of our economy. Please, and Ruslana Knazevitch please, sit in your workplace. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this question. Please vote. [[12:39:37]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. And now, let's not diverge, but all of us sit down and support this project as a whole, taking into account the committee's proposals. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. For the Ukrainian APC, we vote. [[12:40:12]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, Party of Regions – only two people support the agro-industrial complex, Impact – 32 National Deputies, Economic Development – 29, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 34. I promised Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok at the end of this block to give my word. Please, Oleg Jaroslavovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u46	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, there's already a Prime Minister, so we can vote in favour of the day-to-day sanctions bill, right? And the second thing I'd like to ask you is our 4359th Bill, the Law on the Cleaner of Power: People on the streets -- illustration -- the requirement of society. A joint bill, as a product of good will and of the arrangements of most factions in Parliament and of active society, I think it's worth considering today or this week and voting in general. But now let's vote for the agenda. The same is true of the request to put into order 4457a and 4456a, which is the changes to the Budget and Criminal Code, which relate to the formation of a social package for military personnel who are at war on the eastern front. So the oligarchs have to pay for the war.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, let's talk about package 4359a, it's long enough to talk about, I feel like Irina Heratchenko is actively supporting it, turn on her microphone. But with regard to other laws, let us not do so by word of mouth, fellow believers. We're going to go through the profile committees, we're going to get the conclusions, and then we're going to vote. Please, Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, first of all, the strike party calls on all political parties to read their program during the break, first of all. Where it's very clear that you, your distinguished colleagues in the Party of the Regions, are actually in favour of a listed proportional election system. So vote for your program! And we demand that after a break we return to the election issue and vote for lists, open lists. The other one. Obviously, this Council, which does not want to vote in favour of a change in the election system, proves once again that it should begin with its dissolution and illustration. We demand that we include the order of the day and accept today, at least in the first reading of the Illustration Law (4359a). And it's really necessary to start by removing the parliamentary immunity from those deputies who have been filed by the Attorney General's Office, and which are involved in the scandalous laws of January 16th. And the last. We ask that the daily Bill 4226a be put into order, which reinforces the fight against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Matvienkov on this issue also wants to speak. Let's give it a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u50	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Today, more and more often, we hear speeches and talks about what we need to adopt the Illustration Act. But unfortunately, all the laws that we see today have some political shade: and we are talking about the political illustration of some political forces. Indeed, there have been serious changes in the country, and what is positive is that there are extremely negative things that all policies are responsible for. We therefore insist that the illustration should be of all politicians. 4429a is a bill that prohibits all members of the Supreme Council who have been elected, who have returned, who have been members of Parliament since 1991, from voting in the next election. If this is a illustration, then the illustration should be capital, let us conduct it honestly and openly. Thank you. Please include this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u51	4429a, I understand? Dear colleagues! Can we do a direct illustration? Is there inspiration and desire? Yes. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for a definition of the inclusion in the agenda of the 4359a bill on the cleansing of power, which is what it is called. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to determine whether or not you'd like to be included in the agenda, I'd like to vote. [[12:45:03]] For-188. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, regions – 1, Impact – 35, Economic Development – 1, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 22, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 27. Dear colleagues, now. Another illustrative law of the People’s Deputy Matthew (4429a) was proposed, which provides a 100 - percent illustration of everyone’s life. Dear colleagues! Please determine how this project is supported (4429a). Please enter into the agenda, please vote. [[12:45:56]] For 238. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's good, my dear fellows! Nice! [[Applause]] This is serious! We've put this project in order of the day. Dear colleagues, do we accept in general? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please prepare this bill, and we will vote on it. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, calm down, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! I can see the mood. Please, everyone's in a good mood. Everybody wants to get some rest. I don't deny it. As for the vote, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues, please calm down! Please sign up for the factions. One from the factions. Please. Please, Your Honor, National Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u53	Please, Anton Yatzenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, well, this is a very difficult situation in the country. So the big request, let's not turn the Supreme Council into a circus of whispers, I apologize, and the stupidity of the bill does not put in, which is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and in general common sense, not even put in the hall. Because we're playing now, and I'm sorry, it's a very difficult situation in the country. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, let's not play games. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Opanaschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I think we need to be open, and here we need to either, in fact, ban everyone who has been here, in Parliament, or then, after the election law, allow those who have not yet been, to lower the threshold to 2 percent of the threshold. Then we will talk openly to the community. And if we don't now support this bill and increase the barrier again to 5-7 percent, unfortunately, we won't let others go to parliament. So my offer is one more time. There are a lot of people here who really deserve to keep working with their work. And the illustration will give the people how they can continue to be. But allowing young parties to go to parliament and social organisations is also a very important issue. And we need to lower the threshold. If we promised the electorate, we should do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u57	Please, the People's Deputies of Doubenkov, the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u58	I give the word to Hani Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u59	Dear Mr. Head! I think that the entire Ukrainian people will be very excited to accept the Supreme Council's decision that all new people should come to the Supreme Council. And our bill stipulates that all the people who worked as secretaries of the Komsomol committees, party committees, should not be allowed to be in power anymore. So our Cabinet of Ministers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Our cabinet of Ministers will be cleaned up by 90 percent, and Ukraine will indeed work with new people. We ask you to support this position of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u60	The only one. I think I should add a Party of Regions -- who worked in positions of responsibility. Yes or no? To make it really objective and what the Ukrainian people require. Dear colleagues, please let me give you a chance. Dragnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u61	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It can be said that today is almost a historic day. Finally, the illustration that we have been talking about for decades has been voted on in the Ukrainian Parliament. And it's very positive that we've reached that level of Eastern European countries that, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, still vote for the illustration. As a result, the level of economic and political development in those countries is much higher than in Ukraine today. This bill, which we have now put into the agenda, is very positive, and we will support it further. But I propose either to unite or to consider in parallel Bill 4359a, which lacks very few votes, because it is a much wider, respectable society. It applies not only to national deputies but also to sales judges, prosecutors, people who held positions in local authorities, former Communist officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u63	People who were or are in the state structures of Ukraine and were the agency of the KGB of the USSR and are now the FSB of the Russian Federation. So this bill is much broader. So the ice broke. The question of illustration, I see, the hall supports. Sir, we're voting on this. Once again, I ask 4359a to vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u64	Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u65	Vladimir Yavorowski, a Trinity that requires a rapid ratification of the treaty with Europe, Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that our Parliament with you is demonstrating its absolute birth. You know how the illustration was drawn in the countries of Europe that were liberated from under this socialist camp. This was done accurately, specifically, and very quickly. In this case, we're turning it all into some kind of wild farce. Is it not clear how and why? But the illustration has to be done, and she and I are terribly late. We wouldn't have Yanukovich long ago. We would not have had the fatal errors that Ukraine has made. Well, it's a good thing we put it in the agenda, but let's expand now. And let's really make a basic illustration so that those who have harmed Ukraine in these years don't pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u66	People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u67	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues! Of course, today’s vote is extremely positive and has indeed broken the ice. And I would like to make an early proposal to that legislative initiative that has just been voted on. In order for any eventual or transitional position there, not only to deprive the MPs of the possibility, including the Party of Regions and Communists, of any system, but also to foresee the total confiscation of the property they (for the Ukrainian Armed Forces) have looted through the control of the Ukrainian budget by means of two non-humans – Januković and Mikola Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, please, let's calm down. I understand that we have a little bit of, you know, electoral process is starting to look like frost. I'd like everyone to calm down. And you know, in all the nuances, in all the nuances, it's strange that we have a illustration and now in Parliament we have a party of regions that will be conducting a illustration of the whole country. Well, they probably think they have a moral right. At the same time, dear colleagues, I want to inform the initiators of other laws. Colleagues, read the regulations. In view of the fact that one law on this issue is included in the agenda, all other laws that have a illustrative direction are included as alternatives, please applaud. [[Applause]] So, dear colleagues, I'm convinced that we're going to take a single day to review all the laws that are no longer included in the order of the day, but we're going to define the meaning. I gave my word. And let's define, for the best law that reflects the position of not a separate political force, not, excuse me, the format of destabilization of the process, but really to paint a picture of those who have disgraced themselves by their actions or omissions, who have disgraced themselves by their work, both in Parliament and outside Parliament, who have worked against Ukraine, who have worked against the Ukrainian people. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please, in the near future, we will lay down all the illustrative laws so that we can look at them in terms of content and determine which law is supported by Parliament. Next question, dear colleagues. I gave my word. We have a question about the government’s proposal. Come on, Arsenius Petrovich! Arsenius Petrovich! I'd like to advise you to sit down, please, and I'd like to consult with the Prime Minister. It's a very important question, dear colleagues, which concerns sanctions. The sanctions that our country should be able to impose against the aggressor. It's a responsible question, it's a strategic question. At the same time, I can see that we have a little bit of emotion that's starting to take on common sense and ability to work effectively. And that's why, dear colleagues, let's consult. Can I put up a vote on this issue? Should it be moved after 16 hours? Arseny Petrovich, what do you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u69	Dear Mr. Head, the national deputies of Ukraine! You can, of course, vote now, you can postpone, but not question whether there's a mood in the room, but the question is, are we ready to protect our country? This is a law that allows for the first time in the history of Ukraine to impose sanctions imposed by the United States, the European Union and other countries of the world. They protect Ukraine. And Ukraine is obliged to adopt a law that protects our nation. The idea of the law is that there are 29 types of sanctions to be taken by the National Security and Defence Council. Each such sanction can be applied on the basis of a proposal from the Supreme Council, the President, the Government, the Ukrainian Security Service and the National Bank of Ukraine. I'm willing to report specifically on the body of the law, but the main thing is the spirit of the law. Ukraine requires others to protect the territorial integrity and independence of the state, while Ukraine itself does not have a legal mechanism to impose appropriate sanctions and protect itself. The government therefore asks Parliament to immediately vote on a bill that introduces the institution of sanctions. The government has prepared all the necessary documents for Ukraine, together with the United States, the European Union, the Great Seven countries, to also impose sanctions against the aggressor country and its legal and physical persons. So this vote can only be one thing: it's effective, on the basis of the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! I'm going to the hall. We're ready to work and make decisions until the break? Dear colleagues, I ask that we be determined by a signal vote. Please be seated in your workplaces by all colleagues. Please, I'm asking the Secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national MPs can come into the session room. And now, your honors, together, I ask you to determine what you're considering right now. I mean, not "inclusion," right now. To determine the timing of this important issue. By way of a vote, please determine whether or not to support the consideration of this matter for a recess. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[12:59:59]] For 206 For 206 national deputies, it supported the proposal to consider the matter now. So I see we'll look at it after the break. The factions, please. Now. 71 – "Paternal Development" – 11, "MS" – 0, "Supreme European Ukraine" – 25, "Freedom" – 35, "non-fractional" – 30. Dear colleagues, I think those who do not vote for this law today are demonstratively cooperating with the aggressor, the Russian Federation! They're demonstratively working with them! [[Applause]] Both responsibility and illustration must be responsible! Dear colleagues, this is a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament and parliamentarians who are unable to gather and organize the work of Parliament in order to adopt this law. Please, Kirilenko. I'll give you my word now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u71	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Honorable Voters and Honorable Fellows! Now we need to get a list of those who did not vote against the aggressor, the Russian Federation, and in alphabetical order each of them to illustrate. And before that, to bring people there to know by the names of those who now, when our people die in the East, when thousands of refugees, they vote against Ukraine applying sanctions against the aggressor. So, despite the fact that this is a signal vote, I demand that the names of everyone who voted for the aggressor be published in the parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine -- once. The government courier, because it's a government bill, it's two. And hang in Kiev on every column the names of those who did not vote against Russia. So that people would know. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm asking in the speeches is to make it clear that we didn't vote now for the sanctions, we had a signal vote on the issue until the break. Easy, people's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I would like to remind you that on July 22, the Supreme Council placed in order a daily bill under my authority No. 4752 on the imposition of sanctions against persons involved in military aggression, the occupation of Crimea and the annexation of Sevastopol, and terrorism on Donbassa. This bill is included in the agenda of our session. I suggest you put it on the table after lunch, 4752. Take the position of a government bill from there, if they suddenly don't coincide with what's included, consider and accept this bill as a basis and as a whole. And in general, if we've accepted it, I'm underlining 22.07 of the Supreme Council put in order a daily bill on sanctions against Russia. What is the need to reintroduce another bill today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, this is a government initiative based on an international sanction format, an international sanctioning format! – and this is a much broader format than the sanctions for personally traitors who worked against their own country. Please, national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u75	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This law is essential and must be adopted. The "North European Ukraine" faction voted in a signal vote. But we now propose to include this law in the agenda, in the lunch break to hold a committee, perhaps to consider Oleg Láška's bill, which also. some details, and after lunch, go back to this vote and adopt this law. And that would be the right decision. Because the law has only appeared today, and some national MPs may have questions. Therefore, from the second to the fourth, a committee should be held, analysed, and voted. Now, try again, perhaps try to get into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u76	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I also propose to consider Law 4602 on the nationalization of the aggressor country's assets in Ukraine as decided by the government. I believe that this is the most effective tool, not restricting the supply of products to Ukraine's territory, namely, that if the Supreme Council adopts Law 4402a, it will open up the possibility for the government of Ukraine to nationalize those skyscrapers, mobile companies, those banks that are currently operating in Ukraine, earn profits and are financed by all the turmoil that we have in the East of Ukraine. This is the most effective instrument of influence. I insist that we finance the restoration of Donbas, not at the expense of veterans, but at the expense of those who earn billions in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u78	Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u79	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. You finally noticed me. I'd like to point out that the faction of the Party of Regions doesn't mind, in principle, imposing sanctions at the legislative level. Because it's a basic bill that contains a list of certain sanctions that can be applied to one state or another. There's no specificization here, but we want to point out that the President and the government are doing things that have been said about the formation of the parliamentary-presidential republic, not the other way around, we're going against the strengthening of the President's powers. In fact, according to the bill, the decision taken regarding the imposition of sanctions is taken by the RNB, which is effectively controlled by the President. In accordance with article 107 of the Constitution, he will determine the personal composition and, accordingly, will actually decide which sanctions and whom to impose them against. We are firmly opposed to strengthening the President's authority. By the way, it's his pre-election promise. Finally, let's form a parliamentary-presidential republic and not drag all powers from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is about adoption in the first reading, and we could re-adjust the law to the second so that we can adopt it and take a clear position – the Ukrainian position. Please, Oleg Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u81	Respectable Society! Indeed, today we must vote in favour of this government law on sanctions. But I agree with the fact that he can be processed on the committee during lunchtime. Then I would like to take into account that Freedom submitted: 4098a on the moratorium on the supply of military supplies and dual-use goods to the Russian Federation; 4962 on the denunciation of the Agreement on visa-free travel; 4109a on the suspension of accreditation of journalists and technical workers of certain Russian Federation media; 4181a on the suspension of branch activities in Ukraine and the representation of Russian Federation banks before the end of the ATO; 4139a on the application of sanctions to Russian Federation aviation companies for violations of international flights. And then totally we can go to a very proper bill. But what Parliament has to give today is a positive vote in favour of the Sanctions Act – it is absolutely obvious. A war with a Moscow invader.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u83	Dear head! Dear National Deputies! The Prime Minister rightly stated that this law should be adopted by spirit rather than by body. I want to say "body." I think there was a right suggestion that this bill should be further worked out during the break, but I would like to go to the government. You know, when the sanctions go out, for example, when the United States loses $7 billion on one program or another, for the United States, $7 billion is about a tenth of the obvious budget of one city in New York. If such amounts are relative to Ukraine, you understand what they are. I would very much like to ask when there will be a period between the first and the second readings for the government to propose a compensatory programme in those sectors of the economy, when hypothetically, rather, they will be perfectly mirrored, more precisely, accepted by the Russian Federation to us. Then we'd work with the body, not just the spirit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u84	Please turn on the microphone of the Chumak People's Deputy and we'll take risks, colleagues, I've given all the factions the opportunity to all of you to step forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that the law is necessary, I would even say that we are seriously late enough with this law. And the spirit of this law is absolutely correct, we need to talk about the need to impose sanctions, but this law does not impose sanctions on any particular country, this law defines the legal basis for the application of sanctions by the Ukrainian State in general to other States. But at the same time, there are many gaps that need to be taken into account today in preparing for the second reading, do you understand? For example, with regard to sanctions, we say in this law that sanctions can be applied both to Ukrainian citizens and to Ukrainian individuals, but this is a nonsensus, because it can be applied by completely different legal mechanisms. We're talking about initiating these sanctions, who should initiate these sanctions. I think the majority of the sanctions that are envisaged here are economic in nature and therefore there is no need to translate these sanctions into, let's say, the National Security and Defence Council. At the same time, it can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u86	Got the offer to work on the second reading of a serious law, I understand? I see. Dear colleagues! Nevertheless, the responsibility is now to act and demonstrate the position of the Supreme Council. I would very much ask you to put this issue into the agenda right now. Can we? I ask you, I am addressing everyone, please let us sit in our jobs, and we will now show responsiblely the position of Parliament, which is capable, regardless of all the problems, of protecting the interests of our own country. Please, fellow officers, all of you. Alexander Volodymyrna, let's go together. Please support inclusion in the agenda of project number 4453a. Please, colleagues, to be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote together, responsibly. Come on! [[13:11:57]] For 235 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions. Thank you, Your Honor. Parenthood – 76, Party of Regions – 1 everything, Impact – 37, 20 – Economic Development – the media – 0 people in charge of Ukraine in general, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 39. Dear colleagues, how shall we proceed? Let's consult, Arseny Petrovich. Maybe the first one? [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] Or we'll hold a committee after lunch then. I'll put this law in place. In the first reading. Ready, fellows of honor? Please work along with those comments that were called. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you and those who have spoken: we can work on the second reading. And you demonstrate your position that you are capable of protecting Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? The MPs insist on discussing it. Dear colleagues, we'll discuss, I'll see how many people we have left in the hall. Do you understand? No questions! Colleagues insist on discussion. I can't, I can't. The offer is under reduced procedure. No objections? There's no objection. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please be supportive. [[13:13:34]] For 202 Decision taken. Please inform us again about the position of this law very briefly, Arsenija Petrovich. I'm asking you not to break up with anyone, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Ukrainian government is introducing the Ukrainian Sanctions Act for your consideration. This law allows the Ukrainian State to impose sanctions against the aggressor States, their legal and natural persons and their property. The point is that Ukraine will be granted the right through the decision of the National Security and Defence Council to impose sanctions in order to protect its national interests and to protect its citizens. Grounds for the imposition of sanctions. First. Direct or hidden armed aggression against the Ukrainian State. The other one. Damage and health to Ukrainian citizens Anyone who seeks Ukrainian rights should know that Ukraine, together with Western partners, will impose sanctions against him as sanctions imposed by the Great Seven countries against the Russian Federation. Third. Expropriation of Ukrainian property on illegal grounds. Four. Hostage takeover. And the fifth. Obstacles to the continued economic development of the Ukrainian State. In general, the law allows for the introduction of 29 types of sanctions. Including: freezing assets; banning entry; stopping transportation; arresting assets; restricting the use of radio frequency resources; restricting the use of the Internet; and introducing a series of economic and financial burdens against aggressor States; and against their companies and their individuals. Since 2005, Ukraine has not even had the legal capacity to join the sanctions of the European Union, as in Ukraine there is no legislative basis to protect our interests and, together with our Western partners, to pressure the aggressors and interventions that the Russian Federation is today. We have received support from the West, but now we must demonstrate to the world that we ourselves are also capable of protecting ourselves. We realize that the introduction of sanctions will also have consequences for the Ukrainian economy. But that's the price that's nothing compared to the victims of Ukrainian soldiers, the Ukrainian population that are being shot by terrorists who are being supported by the Russian Federation. The adoption of this law is the answer to the question: "This is the Ukrainian Parliament, is it the Parliament of another state?" It's a matter of national dignity. If we are asked to be protected, we must first show that we are able to defend ourselves. Our troops are protecting the country, now let Parliament protect the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u88	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech. 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. People's MP Novak, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u89	Please pass on the word to Natalia Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u90	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u91	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The strike faction supports the adoption of this important law, but we want to draw our colleagues' attention to some important, very important points that need to be worked out before it's adopted in general. First, a list of subjects. Sanctions in all countries are imposed on foreigners, to foreign nations, and not to their own citizens. Let's be honest: to our own citizens, we have a judicial system, we have a control system, we have a criminal code, we have a civil code, let's not ignore these legal acts that are in force in our country, the Constitution. So it's important to limit the number of subjects to foreign citizens and foreign states, because this whole list of sanctions, it's very wide, it's really consistent with world practice, but the mechanism is limping because it's not meant to be implemented. Well, economic sanctions are meant to introduce non-PNDPs, sorry, we think that Kabin should think about politics, for example, substitution if financial, economic sanctions are imposed against other countries. He needs to understand how the economy will suffer in the future. Hence, there is a responsible subject who does not simply submit and initiate the matter, and he must also make a decision on the matter. So we need to review the sanctioning mechanism, and if we're saying that there are sectoral, financial, economic sanctions, we need to clearly anticipate the listing and authorization of those bodies that will be specifically involved in the implementation. If these are financial sanctions, this is the National Bank of Ukraine, also in which court decisions are taken, all of this must be clearly provided for in this law. So we're proposing that this law be thoroughly worked out before it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u92	Please, National Deputy Golovko, Fatherland. Soboljevo has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u93	This is the question on which our faction and the party have been insisting not for the first month. Actually, it's a strange situation. Now we're counting the bracelets, even millions of bracelets that we suddenly lose when we get sanctions. But no one wants to count the lives of those people who are now dying because they were delivered to the last of the "Towns" kits for "The Bulls" were supplied to other types of weapons. Who will answer to the mothers of those who died today or die today from what someone wants to earn at the death of others?? Who should be the one to put it in? In my opinion, it is the Council of National Security and Defence that is the body that concentrates on the key positions of the state: the President, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the key ministers, who are able to quickly and expeditiously assess everything that is going on. Those needed nearly 30 types of sanctions will allow you to deal with these issues very quickly, not to draw them in. Because if we get involved in the second-third reading procedure right now, that's the law. – in all the parliaments of the world that have supported us, namely: Australia, Japan, Canada, United States, 28 European Union countries. These laws were passed immediately and irrevocably because this is the only way to stop the aggressor. If that's understood by the countries that are now reaching out to us, which are now losing themselves as a result of this. Do we not understand that we stand on the threshold when Putin goes on or stops him, including our noble soldiers, and stops our army, and stop our sanctions as well as the sanctions of the entire world? That would be an adequate response to the so-called humanitarian echelons he wants to direct in the presence of the military. That's going to be an adequate answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u94	Let me finish. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u95	aggression, and I think everyone who's voting right now has to be aware that you're in favour of continuing the war -- then you're against the sanctions, then the aggressor will rule in your country; if you're in favour of stopping the war, stopping the aggressor -- then you're behind the sanctions. And I think it's going to be a very test vote. Our faction will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u96	Please. The German National Deputy Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u97	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to pass the word to Matthew's National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u98	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u99	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I would like to go back to the essence of the law and remind ourselves that today we are not considering politics. We are considering a specific basic law that establishes mechanisms for the use of sanctions against some States. Yes, we understand that war and war are not easy today. War requires enormous economic costs. But we have to understand the next thing. War, it's not just military action or ideological opposition. War is a war of economies. And who will have a stronger economy that can operate under these conditions will have certain priorities. What we do in this situation. We give the PNB a mechanism that must be applied to the application of sanctions without calculation, without understanding the consequences, without understanding how this will affect the basic sectors of the economy. Where's Kabmin? Why shouldn't Kabmin do the math? Why should Kabmin not assume this responsibility? Under the Constitution, this mechanism is incumbent on the Council. The Council should be given the right to impose such sanctions, taking into account the views of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's when they'll be effective. That's when this mechanism will work. And if we are talking about a particular situation today, Arsenija Petrovich, let us prepare a specific law with specific sanctions. And nothing prevents the Government from giving it now, and we will consider it in this situation. With regard to this basic law, I stress once again that specific developments are under way. So that we do not create North and South Korea here, we do not lose sight of the economic situation. So that we don't scratch out our basic industries that are just going to be destroyed by some kind of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, please, the last speaker. And I can give you one more minute. Leonov, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u102	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u103	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, society, instead of having the Party of Regions creaking their heads right now for what they've done and for constantly speaking to the Kremlin lobbyists here in Parliament, they're, you see, doing the same policy again! Insomnia! "Freedom" will definitely be supported. If we vote now in general, we vote in general. If we're going to make decisions that there will be further proposals for the committee to work on, Freedom has proposals to be made for this bill. So first. We believe that this bill does not contain clearly defined sanctions on the part of banks, namely, full or partial prohibition of the postponement of rights relating to securities issued by or by individuals of the Russian Federation. The second is the ban on lending to Russian banks in the interbank market. And the third is the restriction on the suspension or cessation of separate types of banking operations by Russian banks. Similarly, we believe that the lack of commercial sanctions in this bill should be complemented and complemented. Such as applying a total or partial ban, a complete or partial embargo on trade with the Russian Federation. And what I've already reminded the previous one in my speech is that we didn't take into account our previous proposal on the need for a hard visa regime. Similarly, it is very important that the bill does not have any positions of responsibility, primarily financial responsibility, for violating the sanctions regime. Because the lack of such responsibility can turn the specified sanctions into a simple legal declaration. Society, as the Romans said, that Carthage should be destroyed, so now we have to destroy Moscow with our sanctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u104	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Chamber of Deputies. And I'm asking that while the national deputy is speaking, the secretarial staff make an announcement to have all the national deputies come into the session room. Everyone, I emphasize, is present in Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is in a state of war. We all understand that very well. Whatever this war is called – ATO or other euphemisms – but everyone understands that it is a war. And in large numbers, when the state is at war, it is not clear to everyone why other countries should apply sanctions to those with whom they are at war, and this country does not apply sanctions. And the war didn't start for a month or two, the war started when the Crimea was annexed. Then you can and should have imposed sanctions. And that's what a really serious state would do. That's why today's hard discussions: whether to impose sanctions or not, that means discussing whether to fight an aggressor or not to fight an aggressor. There are no questions - we need to be supported. But I insist once again on my position, Arsenija Petrovich. Indeed, Ukraine, you see, will become not only the object of sanctions but also the object of mirroring. And that's why I think we need to think in advance about how.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u107	As in some areas, and you know these spheres, it's obviously going to be atomic energy, where we get the things from Russia, and in other areas where we can suffer. And here the price of the question is going to be huge for millions of people. We must be prepared, Mr. Economy Minister, we must be prepared, honored by the entire government, and move in parallel. Not to impose sanctions on those we're fighting, well, stupid really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with our decision to shorten the procedure, representatives of MPs and factions took the floor. I'm talking to the people's deputies right now. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Now it's a very responsible vote. There have been proposals from the strike faction, from some other MPs, concerning the redrafting of the law to the second reading. And I understand that we can do this quickly enough. At the same time, fellow honourable Members, there will now be a key vote for Parliament. I'm addressing all the deputies, colleagues, let's demonstrate our position. I don't want to scare anyone out of those deputies who don't support the fight of Ukraine. Colleagues, no intimidation. But believe me, we've started the illustrative process, I'll do everything I can to make it complete, experience is. So please take your position - stand by and protect your country. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already called, colleagues. Now we're going to vote responsibly. Everyone will be responsibly pressed. In the first. The proposal, honourable colleagues, based on the support of Project 4453a is a draft of the Sanctions Act. Everyone, colleagues, please support in the first reading, that is, on a basis. We're voting together. [[13:31:15]] For 243 Thank you, the decision is made. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Parenthood – 76, Party of Regions – 0 (procedure), yes, Impact – 38, Economic Development – 28, MOU – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – thank you – 38. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult with the Prime Minister. How, then, about preparing for the second reading, taking into account the suggestions that were made?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u109	Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u110	Why don't we take them right now? Should we move the decision to Kabmin? Well, is there any possibility of such, uh, respectable colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u111	Mr. Head, we have an offer. We are now ready to meet with the people's deputies in the Cabinet, a professional committee to take all the proposals into account and vote on the bill in general at 4:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u112	As you wish. Yes, Your Honor, I ask then the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions the proposals that are before this law, please, immediately. Who's in the office, Minust?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u113	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u114	Justice Minister Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, he's waiting. Once our meeting is concluded, all the suggestions on this matter are made. Dear colleagues, we had a technical problem because we didn't consider alternative laws. 4457a was also the law on sanctions. I am asking Parliament to be determined on this issue. Although, I would suggest. Oleg, I'd suggest that now the suggestions you have, let's make to Minusto, and he'll take into account when preparing for the second reading. It's only right that we don't break our position right now, because we're going to overthrow the law and not get the result. So, please, the principles of position to Minust. We include them in the law that we have now adopted, a very important decision -- honourable colleagues, thank you all the patriots who have voted -- in the first reading and we prepare it, we immediately take it to the hall and we accept it. Is there no objection? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear National Deputies! Now we have very important issues related to the fight against terrorism, particularly, I ask in the same warehouse that has now voted a very responsible decision on sanctions, which is in this warehouse, without distinction, to make three important questions. First. 4312a is a draft law amending the Terrorism Act to prevent detention in the area by persons involved in terrorist activities for more than 72 hours. Dear colleagues! A proposal for a reduced procedure, or should we make a direct decision? Can we make a decision, Your Honor? Can we? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can. Please, colleagues, this is now about the fight against terrorism, it's about the detention of terrorists, and then the courts release them, and they continue to kill our military and our officers again, because the courts don't work there. Dear colleagues, we will protect our citizens! I'm asking you very much, now in the same warehouse that we passed the sanctions law, let's now adopt 4312a, worked. The president insists on an immediate review of this law. Please, colleagues, support, together, let's fight terrorism! (4312a) On the basis and in general, please vote, dear fellows, let's go together! [[13:34:57]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you for the factions, please. 76 Fatherland, thank you. The region's party is 0.39 - Impact, 25 - Economic Development, and the IMS is 0 for the illustration, prepare a list. "North European Ukraine" is 24, "Freedom" is 35, non-fractional is 33. Lustration will be very serious, respected colleagues. The next question (4311a) is the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on a special pretrial investigation regime in the context of war, state of emergency and the area of anti-terrorist operation. Do we need to talk about a reduced procedure? Vote? Dear colleagues, 4311a, inspired, responsible. On the basis and in general. Please support the project. [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't I hear who's yelling "no vote"? Please locate the traitors! Colleagues, 4311a, on the basis and in general, are responsible together. Vote. [[13:36:25]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 74 is "The Fatherland", 0 is the region, 37 is the impact, 5 is the economic development. Dear colleagues, Economic Development. "North European Ukraine" is 25, "Freedom" is 34. 31. Please, from Economic Development, how about some comments? Filipenko, national MP. Come on!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. The point is that this law actually gives prosecutors the right to change the court. And I would like to point out that our group has supported a bill tabled by the representative of the President, number 4447a, which provides for a civilised settlement of this situation under the Constitution, where all cases, all criminal conduct from these courts, which cannot execute justice, because they have terrorists sitting there, are referred to the relevant other courts, and the court will decide. And in this case, we ask you to put this law to the vote again because it solves this problem more comprehensively. And especially with regard to criminal conduct. And hand over to the prosecutor the right to make a decision instead of a court. I don't think that's an option for us. Let us act according to the Constitution, with common sense, as professionals. And for that, the President passed this law -- 4447a, which was somehow not supported. So our position, we ask for this law to be put to a vote because it is more complex to regulate the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u116	Please, I'm asking a reporter for Moscal. Gennady Hennadiovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, you have already voted, and you understand very well, and you have nowhere to go. Courts don't work. And how to keep a prisoner. Why are these volunteer troops delayed today? Because the police have no right for more than 72 hours. And we've already voted on the first law, it's the second, the technical law, to make a supplement to the Criminal Procedure Code. And so is the third law. At the same time, I want to explain. There can't be rules for the use of weapons during an anti-terror operation: "Stop! Who's coming?" a warning shot upwards. Until then, he will be shot, and nothing will be left of him. They're all supposed to do the same thing! Your Honor, let's go back, this is a technical question. When we first took it, we could. We have to accept the second -- change, add to the Criminal Procedure Code, which, by the way, needs to be reworked, Mr. Filipenko, not criticized. You're one of his authors. The most unworthy law in all the history of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u118	Colleagues, I would like to ask that we do not find a relationship right now, and we need to make a constructive decision. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. Guys, let's not break up! Please make an announcement to the secretariat so everyone can come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u119	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich! Look, we're going back, unfortunately, to this situation that Liberty warned us about. These are all the questions that we're now breaking the writings and we can't find the answer to, it's very easy to solve by entering the state of war. That's when everything that's supposed to work begins to work. At that time, we stop the return of separatist officials who are returning to their seats today by decision of the court or without a decision of the court. At that time, we do not allow local courts that supported separatists to make decisions in favour of the same separatists. At that time, we protect our military personnel, against whom the charges are already being filed. And let us not close our eyes to this! And then we solve those issues that are now urgent. We're talking to the President about the introduction of the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! I understand the proposal and the invitation to the President, but I would like to consult you on what to do with this law. Do we have a chance to support him after all, colleagues? I'd like to refer to the MP's Economic Development Group and the distinguished People's Deputies of the Philippines. Dear colleagues! The point is that in an emergency, a military situation, there is a tremendous risk every day of the lives of our military. We have to make decisions about detention without being able to deal with it in court. Sometimes, honourable colleagues, just bringing the defendant to trial, even Kiev, Kharkiv, other regions, is the time. And during this time, our procedural standards require that this criminal, a terrorist, be released. So I'm asking you very much, given the situation, it's only about the anti-terror zone. And, yes, I'd like to ask the honourable colleagues to support us. This is an extraordinary situation when decisions are to be made immediately. I'm sorry, but the suspect will be more detained for 30 days than we will release a terrorist who will kill our soldiers. Different weights of responsibility, respected colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's go together. Colleagues, please return to this question (4311a). Please come back, dear fellows. Please take your seats, please. It's about the lives of our boys, colleagues. Every terrorist we haven't released, we've saved the lives of our military soldier, the Armed Forces, or the Nazi guard. Colleagues, look at these questions at this angle. Please return to this issue (4311a). Please, Your Honor, support the return to consideration. [[13:42:45]] For 225 Colleagues, please, Andrew. Colleagues, please sit down. And I'm addressing the Philippines, the National MP. Well, people's lives are about people's lives. I'm not exaggerating, dear colleagues. Let's be responsible, I'm addressing the People's Deputy's Deputies, let's vote now. Please, everyone vote for themselves. Please, Your Honor, please return to this matter, and we will protect the lives of our military. Please support the return. [[13:43:36]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. I'd like your colleagues to support this project as a matter of principle and as a whole. Please vote now. [[13:43:56]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. 77 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of the Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 37, "Economic Development" – 26, "The Press" – 0, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 26.35 – "Freedom" – 32 – non-fractional. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Last question from this block. It's a draft Act 4310a, a bill amending the Ukrainian Police Act on the conditions of use of force, special means and firearms in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation. Dear colleagues, in order for the author to explain this law, let's take a shortcut, let's support it. Please support the reduced procedure. [[13:44:53]] For 209 The decision is supported. For 209 votes. Please, Gennady Hennadiovich. Briefly inform about the content of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! I want everyone there to hear, or you don't vote. Don't scream. Second, the question is that not everyone is on equal terms, yes, there are traitors among the militia, but there are those who are fighting today and those who went to work by watch methods there, they're not in equal condition. Neither does the army have the right to use weapons, the National Guard has the right, and Parliament has given this right, and it has supplemented the law on the fight against terrorism. Unfortunately, the law of the Police Act has been left to the police. It has to be first: to establish a person -- who -- who -- is a warning shot at the top -- and during the war these rules don't work. Otherwise, the police will just be destroyed physically. You have to put everyone at the level of condition. Because terrorists will not ask for family, office, and warning shots. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what the speaker said, it's about people's lives, it's about people's lives, it's about people's lives today. I'm asking you to support this technical issue that all anti-terrorists already have, except for the militia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u122	Thank you, Hennady Hennadiovich. Please, the head of the profile committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement examined draft law No. 4310 (a) at its meeting, submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Moskal. I want to say briefly. The purpose of the bill is to increase the security of police personnel during an anti-terror operation. In particular, it is proposed to introduce in article 12 of the Ukrainian Police Act, which is in effect, the provisions concerning the granting of rights to police personnel in the area of conducting the ATO, apply without warning, as Hennady Hennadiyovich has already said. "Stop! Who's coming?" - It's all coming off. Physical strength, special means, and weapons. The granting of such rights to militia personnel is in full conformity with international law. That's why the committee decided to support this bill and I'm calling on the Supreme Council to support it, to take it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u125	There's no need. Please, Your Honor, we will protect the lives of those who are restoring the rule of law in our regions today: Donetsk, Luhansk. Let's support them. Please, Your Honor, support Project 4310a. Please support as a whole. Please, your honor, together, responsibly. [[13:48:37]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. Parenthood – 72, Party of Regions – one decent person, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 38, Economic Development – 25, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 29. Dear colleagues, Kowalczuku Vitaliy Anatoliyovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u126	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! We were at the Conciliation Council yesterday discussing the inclusion of another bill for consideration and amending some laws on the fight against terrorism. This bill envisions the creation, granting the right to the Ukrainian Security Service to create a special unit to combat terrorism. We ask that we support inclusion in the agenda and vote it out as well. The committee made a positive decision on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u127	4226a. 4226a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to strengthen not only the police but also the Security Service, and to include in the agenda the 4226a project, right? 4226a. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal of Vitali Kowalczuk and the strike faction to include this project in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[13:50:29]] For 205 Unfortunately, no decision is made. Dear colleagues, we have some very important questions. I'd like to consult you so that we can process them effectively, there's a suggestion that we continue after the break. Or the issue of military duty and military service is still important. Can we make it, there's a D.O.D. here? Can we make it? Dear colleagues, let's give it a try. Let's not break up, colleagues. I'm looking at the monitor: the number of national MPs is decreasing. Guys, we're gonna be able to get a bite to eat. Please. The draft Act on Amendments to the Laws on Military Duty and Military Service and on Prevention and Anti-Corruption Measures. Colleagues, fighting corruption in the Armed Forces, which could be more important. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please be supportive. I'll give you one minute to speak to the Ministry of Defense, and we'll vote. Short notice, please. [[13:51:49]] For 201 The decision is supported, "For" is 201 votes. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich, Defence Minister, Mehed. You can go out of your way to save time. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u129	Dear Alexander Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Defence to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree. The purpose of the draft act is to standardize military service during special periods and times of peace, including the recruitment of primary officers by sergeants and seniors with higher education. Today, 2,324 sergeants with higher education are serving in the Armed Forces. Placing in a crisis situation and a special short-term contract period a decision on demobilization, flexible contractual arrangements for sergeants and seniors from 3 to 5 years of age for officers who have completed the military department from 2 to 5 years of age. Simplification of the procedure for carrying out a case-by-case examination and refusal during a special period during the recruitment of citizens for military service under contract. In harmony with the Ukrainian Family Code, the issue of orphans. Simplification of the military verification mechanism for military-related conscripts who have reached the age of 25. The National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on first reading and on a basis. The implementation of the act does not require additional costs from the state budget. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u130	Dear national deputies, is there a need to discuss the law? There's no need. But there is a need for support, is that what I understand? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'd also like to ask the national deputy of Geller to come to my place of work as well. We're going to vote now. It's already there. Please sit down. I ask your colleagues to support the project 4325a, on the basis of the profile committee as a whole: these are changes to the laws of Ukraine on military duty and military service and on the principles of prevention and resistance to corruption (for the recruitment of citizens into military service). Dear colleagues, please support the project as a whole. Please vote everyone. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[13:54:56]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now, don't worry, let's not break up. Parenthood – 74, Regions – 0.37 – Impact, Economic Development – 23.0 – SMS, Sovereign European Ukraine – 23.34 – Freedom – non-fractional – 28. I'm asking you to comment on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u131	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I am addressing those who have not voted, and I very much ask you to support this bill, it is of a totally peaceful nature. What is it? This is an organizational approach to forming contractors. In special circumstances, it is important that they do not go through a special test so that it is a simplified approach. There's nothing there to contradict common sense, and I'm asking you to support me. This will help to reduce the number of people who are being mobilized and will go to serve those who want to serve as volunteers. And there's no reason not to vote for that legislative decision. And one more moment. I would ask, at the same time, after a positive decision has been taken, I hope that the decision on this bill, to vote on the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings, is absolutely necessary. I beg of you, Your Honor, support me. Make sure that those who are required to stay in their homes do not need to be mobilized but who want to serve go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the head of the committee and really support the law that creates a flexible system of contracting those who want to serve. Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich also asks for active support, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, in recent months, right in the task area, our fighters are writing reports to count, to accept them. The existing system provides for a long procedure, and there is no time for that. Today, 3 teams are being deployed to update, where people are already asking for this law to accept and sign the contract, plus increase the contract to 5 years for officers. I ask you very much to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m0.u134	My dear colleagues, I'm still focusing on the fact that those who signed the contract get much more financial support because they're already working on the contract. Let us support both our officers and our sergeants, our distinguished colleagues, those who want to protect our country voluntarily. I remind you that a contract is just a voluntary position, there is no mechanism to force someone to sign a contract. Please, Your Honor, support, let's go back to this question. Please, let us work together to return to this question (4325a). Please vote on the return to this question. [[13:58:15.]] For 233 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's take the basis and in general, please vote, immediately as a basis and as a whole. [[13:58:32]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! There was a proposal by Vladimir Mikhailovich not to disperse, but to immediately support the proposal to endorse the recommendations of our parliamentary hearings on "The defence of Ukraine in the 21st century: challenges, threats and ways of overcoming them". Dear colleagues! The experts, the experts, the analysts in these hearings, our national deputies, and they've all taken part in very important proposals that will be useful to both the Armed Forces and the National Guard, other strong structures. Beg your pardons, your fellow Members, the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation, let's vote together, I ask you for a basis, as a whole. Registration number 4393a, please vote. [[13:59:37]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see the national MPs have left after the break at 4:00 P.M. the Supreme Council will continue its work. Thank you.
