ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u1	Good afternoon! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place, we can start our work. Please, faction leaders, please invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, we can start our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place, we can start our work. Faction leaders, I'd like to arrange the work of deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and start the registration, your honors. Careful, please. Please register. [[10:06:27]] There are 350 national deputies in the hall. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. And in support of the traditions of the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to personally welcome, on your behalf, our fellow national MP, Andrija Jaroslavovich Lopushanski with his birthday. Let's say hello, fellows of honor! Success and well - being, we warmly welcome you. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! We have national deputies to make an oath today by the Ukrainian national deputy. I invite you to make an oath. In accordance with the decision of the Central Election Commission of 3 December 2014, the National Deputies of Ukraine elected for the election of Ukrainian National Deputies were registered on 26 October 2014: Stepan Stepanovich Barna, Igor Mikolajovich Obera, Sergey Volodymyrovich Kunicina, included in the election list of the Party "Block of Petra Prashenka"; Condratuk Olenu Konstantinovna, included in the election list of the political party "Universal Union of Fathers". [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Barna Stepanović, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u3	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bebar Igor Mikolaiovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out all my duties in the interests of fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u5	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Volodymyrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out all my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u7	Heroic glory! To make an oath to the rostrum, the Ukrainian national deputy Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u9	Heroic glory! Hello! Dear fellow national deputies, let us welcome once again the national deputies who have just taken an oath. Welcome, dear fellows, and we wish you success. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Crimea Union in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Krem Interfractional Union was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexia Alexiyovich Honcharenko. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Inter-Parliamentary Union of Carpathians in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Interfractional Association of Carpathians was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Packaan Valerija Vasilovich. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of Freedom in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Interfractional Union of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Illenka Andrija Yuriovich. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know what's going on in the daytime affairs. At the suggestion of a coalition of deputy factions to reconcile the issues of our future work today, in accordance with article 27, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I declare a recess until 12.30 in view of the fact that the working groups and factions are working on the formation of day - to - day issues. Thank you. By 12:30, we're working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, a few minutes of your attention. I want to inform you that the Preparatory Group's work is still under way to form agenda issues regarding the creation of the Supreme Council committees, their personal composition. And there has just been another meeting of the Preparatory Working Group. Almost all questions are agreed upon, and there are literally a few questions that need more time. So I'm forced to announce a recess in our morning session. And I'm announcing that the evening session will begin at 4 p.m. [[B in m in s a l in]] The morning session is called. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm calling a break until 4:00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u11	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! We continue our morning plenary session. I want to let you know that there is already agreement on almost all factions, and the draft decree is being printed that will be introduced into the session hall. Of course, the services technically need time to do so. And I'd like to do an honorary function right now. Again, in line with the Central Election Commission's decision of December 4, 14th, the Ukrainian National Deputies were registered for election to Ukraine's National Deputies on October 26, 2014. This is Makarian David Borisovich, who is included in the election list of the party "Block of Peter Prashenko"; Steczenk Dmitry Alexanderovich, who is included in the election list of the political party "The People's Front" and Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich, who is included in the election list of the Radical Party "Olega Ljashka". [[Applause]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. But before I invite the National Deputies to take an oath, I want a moment of attention from the distinguished National Deputies, a moment of respect for your colleague with you, our colleague with you, to hear the solemn oath in the Supreme Council Hall. I would like to invite you to make an oath to the rostrum, and the National Deputy of Ukraine, David Borisovich, is invited. Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like to ask more importantly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u12	I, Makarian David Borisovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u13	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Please, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stecenko Dmitry Alexandrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich. National Deputy Stecenko Dmitry Alexandrovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jižmar Yuri Vasilovich, is invited to make an oath on the coffin. I'd like to invite you to the People's Chamber, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich, to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head! People's deputies, the Ukrainian community! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u15	Thank you. We wish success to the national deputies who have just taken an oath. I've got, uh, respectable colleagues, a few announcements. News of the election of deputy heads of the People's Front faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we report on the election of the national deputy Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich as the first deputy head of the People's Front faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. [[Applause]] We also report on the election of Ukrainian national deputies: Berezy Mikolaiovich, Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodimirovic, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, Sumar Victoria Petrovna, the deputy leader of the People's Front faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Honourable National Deputies, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, report the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Balitsky Evgen Vitaliyovich, from the MP's Economic Development Group. More carefully, distinguished national MPs. Honourable National Deputies, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, report the entry of Ukrainian National Deputies: Barney Stepan Stepanovich, Kunicin Sergey Volodymyrovich, Bober Igor Mikolaiovich, part of the Party's deputy faction "Blok Petra Poroshenko". [[Applause]] According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy Pastuh Taras Timofiowiovich as part of the political party's deputy faction of Self-Help. [[Applause]] According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovni into the political party's "All-Ukrainian Motherland Union". [[Applause]] Honorable colleagues are national deputies because they are not. Dear colleagues, 150 copies of the draft Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call. I think we're going to do another 15 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, since the distribution process is currently under way, I would like to ask all Ukrainian national deputies to invite their colleagues to the Supreme Council Hall and we will continue with you the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would ask all the national deputies to come into the hall and I would like to warn all the national MPs that each of the national deputies is obliged to vote in person in the Supreme Council Hall. That is why I would ask that we be very clear about the legislation, the Supreme Council Rules and the individual vote of each MP. Dear colleagues, another message. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association "The Red Chernigian", which is run by Kuliè Valerija Petrovic. Dear colleagues, we, I'm announcing a 30-minute break until all materials are distributed, are not being reached by the service. 30 minutes. But we're fine. We'll get through the whole day. The break is announced by 16.45. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our sessions of the Supreme Council. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. Please, distinguished national deputies, take your places of employment. We can continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the decision of the Central Election Commission, the CEVC has registered the national deputies who are now scheduled to make an oath under the Constitution of Ukraine prior to the entry into office of the National Deputy of Ukraine before the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I would ask everyone to take their seats so that we can start our work properly and finish it today. So that we can concentrate rather than delay our working hours. That is why I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dr. Dmitr Alexanderovich, to take the oath to the rostrum. Please, Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u17	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u18	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Drauk Sergey Evseyevich, is invited to the rostrum to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u19	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of my fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! The National Deputy of Ukraine, Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u21	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, people of Ukraine! I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the benefits of the homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u22	Thank you! We wish success to the national deputies who have just taken an oath. Dear colleagues, a few announcements. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine, I report the entry of National Deputy Davidenka Valerija Mikolaiovich as part of the party's MP "Block of Peter Poroshenko". [[Applause]] In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Jižmar Yuri Vasilovich, as part of the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška in the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] Let's start with the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you and I need to consider the agenda and one of the issues is the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The election is conducted in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 15 of the Rules. I would like to point out that there have been two representatives of the Head of the Supreme Council, the first deputy and deputy of the Head, namely, the faction that political factions have been submitted, there is a proposal to elect the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Andria Volodymyrovich. [[Applause]] The proper submission came from the political party "The People's Front." The next decision that came from the Self-Help faction, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is to elect the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Siroid Oxana Ivanovna. [[Applause]] The relevant decrees 1255 and 1256 are found in the National Deputies. I'd like to consult you. Is there a need to discuss the matter in the order of the day? There's an offer for a non-faulty MP. I respectfully give you the opportunity, according to the Rules, to make an offer. Thank you. There's another offer. But since we have two proposals that came first and I have the right, as chairman, to unite these two issues and to vote them at the same time, I will then, if there are no more questions and a desire to speak, take this right and put to the vote in order of coming a unified 1255 and 1256, the content of which I will give you. Can't you? Why? Okay. Then we will vote with you if two separate decisions are possible to unite in one. So we are now going to unite into one single decree, and this is going to be decree 1255: the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Accordingly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to elect the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, and to elect the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Siroid Oksana Ivanovna. Is there no objection? None. Dear colleagues! I then, with your permission, put to the vote the issue of acceptance as a basis and in general the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order No. 1255. Please vote. United, respected colleagues, united. [[17:03:48]] For 313 Decision taken. 23 – against, held – 4, not voted – 32, only 372. [[Applause]] Let us welcome the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as well as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] [[Congrats]] I ask the newly elected First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, as well as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, to take their seats in the Presidium in accordance with the terms of office. [[Applause]] Thank you, distinguished national MPs, we are. Yuri Vitaliyovich, as an experienced Ukrainian national deputy, has done a very important job, I would not say that this observation, on the contrary, is a very, very important question that we should announce throughout the country: for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament a woman is in the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Well, that's right, because there was another proposal, but since the first proposal got the absolute majority of the votes, it's accepted, there's no point in making the second proposal. Dear colleagues, we have a day-to-day registration number of the draft Decree 1004, a billing order, a number of compositions and objects of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Is there a need to discuss these issues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Project. One minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear national deputies, one minute from the factions, so that we can reconcile all positions. I'll do it then. And one from the non-fractional. In a minute. After a minute, MP factions and groups and non-fractional ones. I'm asking you to sign up for the performance. One minute from the factions, one minute from the non-fractional, one person from the speakers. From factions and groups. Please sign up. Please, from the factions. From factions and groups one minute at a time. Please, the opposition block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u24	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block. In the list of committees, unfortunately, we have not seen a committee that has been repeatedly proposed to create in parliament that deals with people's problems at Donbassa and in Crimea. asking us to support our proposal so that these people feel that the state cares about them and supports them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Andrew Cosemiakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u26	Dear Head, distinguished Presidency, colleagues! The Fatherland faction is going to support this draft of the Supreme Council Committees Knowledge Order, but there's one supplement, and I'd like it to be stenographic. Dear Head, the Act on Privatization of State Property provides for the creation by the Supreme Council of a special supervisory commission on matters of privatization. And there were seven references to this, so I propose that the draft regulation should be supplemented by paragraph 2 of the following content: "In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, create a Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. In this regard, paragraphs 2, 3, 4 are considered to be paragraphs 3, 4, 5. ” In addition, the name of the appendix to this regulation should be clarified, including a clear solution to the matter of the commission’s knowledge. It is clearly laid down in both law and regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u27	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Fixed under the stenogram. Next, I invite you to join us in the words of the Self-Help Faction. Oleg Beresuk. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u28	Oleg Beresuk. We support this decision. Please fill in paragraph 1 of the draft Ordinance "On the List, Quantities and Objects of the Supreme Council Committees of the Eighth Call" (registration number 1004) with the following new sub-item: Laps, "28, Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Democratic Civil Control over the Military Organization of the State." 2. To complement this draft decision with a new paragraph 5 of such content, quotes, 5. "This ruling takes effect from the date of its adoption, except for paragraph 28, paragraph 1 of this decree, which takes effect at the same time as the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act, "On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the order of democratic civil control over the military organization of the State." 3. In addition to the above-mentioned draft regulation, which defines the subjects and knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, paragraph 14 contains the subject of the National Security and Defence Committee's knowledge of the words: "implementation of civil, including parliamentary control over the military organization of the State."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Here's to the word "Peter Prashenko's Block," Olga the Mantis. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u30	Olga the Mantis, Peter Dust Block. Please transfer, complete the Health Committee, and extend the health insurance that is currently in the Social Protection Committee. Medical insurance should be made available to the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u31	Thanks for the offer. Next, please, Economic Development. One minute, Economic Development. Janko is a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u32	Dear Sir, your fellow national MPs. The Economic Development Group understands that this decision will now be voted on. But it reminds us of a famous Soviet movie called "The Wedding in Malinovka," when, you know, it was kind of like that word, something like that. So I want to remind you that we have all the deputies here today, people voted for everyone. For example, I was voted in favour of 50,000 people in Cherkashina. And so for all of our members of our group. That's why we don't want to participate in this and remind our colleagues that the principle of a democratic country is that we all have to be equal before the law, especially all citizens. So there can be no bad voters and good voters. Therefore, we will not participate in this and ask for all the governing positions on the committees that are loyal to members of our group to keep to themselves members of the coalition. We don't need it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! I'd like to be tolerant during the performance. Everyone in this room has the right to speak, so I would ask for balance. Next, please, the People's Front, Wojciekhov Svetlana Mikhailnovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u34	Svetlana Vojciekhovska, please pass on the word of Lilia Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u35	Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I didn't understand the change in the subject of committee knowledge. Science suddenly leapt, agrarian science, into the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations. We can't start fragmenting science into committees. Please, from the first point, where there are objects of knowledge of the committee, remove "applicable scientific research in the agrarian sphere." And please, I'm still handing over my remaining time to Mrs. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear friends! Please, Dennis. I just wanted to say that maybe I wanted to comment on Mrs. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u38	Is that a turn-on? Thank you for listening to me. I want to remind all the people's deputies that we have the basis of social insurance, that's five kinds of social insurance. Medically, it's also a social insurance, so it's a social policy. Thank you very much and please support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u39	Thank you, Sophia Leontievna. I'd like to say the next thing, colleagues. We will now make the decision that was discussed in the Working Group. Next, objects of knowledge, how something needs to be balanced, we're going to balance it in the work order, absolutely normal in the committees. Please proceed with the Radical Party, Artemenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u40	I ask you to give the floor to the People's Deputy of the Radical Party, Mr. Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u41	Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! We have 3 offers on objects of knowledge. The first proposal is to refer antitrust policy to the subject of knowledge of the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. A friend's offer. To support Ms. Lilia Greenevich's proposal, she should not be on the agrarian Applied Science Committee. This is the absolute scope of the board of science and education. And we also agree, the third sentence, with what Mrs. Olga the Mantis said on medical insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u42	Thank you, Your Honor. Next. Please, from the non-fractional Borislav Yuhimovich Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u43	I, Borislav Bereza, give the voice to Andrew Ilyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u44	Please, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u45	Andrew Ilyenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to point out, first of all, that despite all the talk about reducing the number of committees, because they were clearly too many in the last call, this time we got 27, and that's clearly too much. Because obviously there was a lot of talk about rejection of the quota principle, but unfortunately and culinaryness, but unfortunately we have to find that this is going on, and there's probably not enough chairs for everyone, and so we have to artificially increase the number of committees, rip them apart. So, of course, our position, we're not going to vote for it. And because very often, I'd like to go directly to my coalition colleagues, especially those who were on the field, so let's not keep yelling "no discussion" all the time, right now, and so on, because it's like the last Parliament. Let's talk about issues, let's move away from culinary, let's act transparently. And the last thing I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u46	Honorable National MPs. There were several suggestions. I'd suggest you do the next thing. What are we now? The task force was working, the knowledge rectified. I promise you, as long as we don't rectify the subject of committee knowledge, I will be able to identify the committee that will be in charge of the matter, and we will address this issue perfectly in the normal working order. So that we don't make very important decisions now, I think that would be absolutely appropriate. So I'd like to keep everyone safe. I'd like everyone to stay calm. Dear colleagues! We do. It's all right. It's all right. You and I have just received all the suggestions and suggestions. Suggestions that don't come up. I understand that Andrija Anatoliyevich Cosemyakina and Oleg Berezuk are the ones who have no objection. Is that what I'm saying? [[Noise Nodes]] The factions have just spoken and spoken. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! I stress once again that everyone had the opportunity to express themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u47	Voting procedure, please, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, we have to do this: the proposed draft decree is voted on as a basis, and then every proposal made by the People's Deputies is put to the vote, found support or found, and then voted on as a whole. As Head of the Supreme Council, you cannot manually regulate the subjects of committee knowledge if the Supreme Council has made another decision. So what I'm proposing is that we take the basis, and then the Greenwich colleagues, the Mantis, the Halasyuk, the Dennis proposal, we put every proposal, we vote, the room is defined, or we don't support. And taking into account the proposals discussed, we are voting in general. This is what the Rules provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u49	Thank you very much. I saw that Mrs. Greenevich, National Deputy Greenevich, wanted to say the word. Yeah? From the procedure? [[Noise Nodes]] Let's do it this way: vote on the basis of the draft decision. Based on the base. Ladies and gentlemen, we had to register. I said, by factions and non-fractionals, thank you. Please put to the vote on the basis of a decree handed down to Parliament's deputies, No. 1004 objects of knowledge, objects of knowledge, a decree on the list, a number of compositions and objects of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Please vote on the basis. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. Please vote. [[17:20:55]] For 315 Against 19, held – 2, not voted – 40. The decision is made as a basis. Then there's the order of arrival. By factions, please show me. Please, Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u50	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! We have two weeks, but perhaps more, starting before the oath took place, there was a working group working on committee knowledge. Clearly, there are some issues that need to be settled. But, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich! It's very dangerous when we begin to regulate something with you in a voice. That is why there is an offer, honourable colleagues, to support the whole decision. And assuming that the committees are already working next week, they will make proposals to clarify the knowledge of these committees. And you and I are going to make some changes to the draft ruling. And now I'm asking you to support this decision as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u51	Thank you. So there's a proposal to vote in order of coming. So first of all, in order of coming, it was a proposal from a working group that we should put to the vote. But there were suggestions from the working group that Andrew Cosemyakin sounded and proposals from the working group that Oleg Berezuk announced. That's why I'm voting. They were from. [[B in m in s a l in]] They were from the task force. In the coming order, we put the vote to the vote. Deputies, please prepare. Let us put to the vote the whole draft ruling prepared by the working group, with the additions announced by Deputy Kožemiakin, Berezuk, with a technical change in the budget committee, not in budgetary policy, but in budgetary matters. Please put to the vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. In general, respected colleagues, in general. [[17:23:27]] For 270. Decision taken. 27 – against, held – 10, not voted – 68. I'm the only one I want to ask. By factions, please show me. I, the only one who would like to ask the people's deputies, the proposal of the people's deputy Greenevich, the Mantis, the proposal that was made by the representative of the Radical Party and by Ludmila Denisov to have it processed at work. [[B in m in s a l in]] In order for us to work on it, and to make changes through committees if necessary. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, the Bill of Census, the number of compositions, the objects of knowledge we have adopted. I'm introducing the Order on. draft Decision on the selection of heads, the first deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? Wait a minute. I would like to make a proposal in accordance with current legislation, and the Supreme Council will vote on it. I'd like to ask, Your Honor, for your consideration, a draft decision on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for registration number 1009, which will be submitted by the working group and distributed to the National Deputies. Now the process of discussion will be the next, honourable colleagues. I'm going to give one minute to the factions and also one speaking out from the non-factional, one minute from now. And then we'll go to the vote with you. I'd like to do the following thing, very concisely. But there's a speech, I have a request for two factions to take a break, but we agreed that two groups of MPs, Economic Development and People's Will, we agreed not to announce the break, we agreed that we'd let them speak for three minutes. So if you don't mind, two factions of three minutes and one speaker. One minute by faction, one from the non-fractional and we move on to the vote. Is there no objection? Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking for factions. will the faction heads be authorized or will we register? Please, from the block. An offer? An offer? Yes, from factions of factions, please. Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, then the People's Front, then Oleg Lachka's faction, then the Opposition Block, Fatherland and Self-Help and one of them. I'd like to ask the non-fractional to sign up for the performance, one minute, non-fractional. Please sign in. And the word of Yuri Lucenko, "Peter Duster's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! The Peter Prashenko faction supports the need to make a positive decision on the decision on the personal composition of the board and the committee members. We have to start the Ukrainian Parliament today. The people have chosen us to work, so we support the vote in favour. At the same time, please correct a few technical errors. First. The newly accepted deputy, Makarian, has just taken an oath to report to the Transport Committee. Oleg Musei, deputy of the Health Committee, ex-Minister, who numbered there, and technically, instead of him, someone was enrolled from the opposition. We also ask that the deputy head of the self-governance committee, Olesia Long, be expelled as one who cannot lead such a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, People's Front, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, it is now the 3 deputies elected from the People's Front who have taken an oath. The decree, which was given to the deputies, was prepared when they had not yet taken an oath. I ask you, Vladimir Borisovich, please write down from our faction -- an offer that is in agreement with the MPs -- the national deputy Drojk and Drozdik, the Committee of Social Policy. You understand how important social policy is for our citizens and the influence of the Supreme Council on these processes. And the national deputy Stecenko is with the Committee on Freedom of Speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Working on a draft decision really took enough time to solve a lot of other problems. As far as this decision is concerned. Our faction does not deny to support this decision, but provided that 16 members of the national MPs who voted in favour of the dictatorships on January 16 were removed from the list of those who would hold the governing positions on the committees. I would like to remind you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, that leadership positions on committees are the head, the first deputy, the deputy and the secretary. In the issued draft decrees of 16 persons involved in bloody crimes, it is proposed that the Governing Council should embrace the governing positions of the Supreme Council. And, I think they don't have to embrace leadership positions, and they have to sit in prison for the crimes of the Yanukovich dictatorship. And this is the underdevelopment of the Attorney General's Office and the power that allowed them, to pass through the world, to jump into the Supreme Council instead of responding to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, the Fatherland faction. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u58	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. We discussed at a faction meeting this draft decree. We'll back him up. Please take into account the statements made by the factions and the MPs regarding the exclusion from the list of the committees of those deputies, and this somehow strangely coincided with those who voted in favour of the 16-number laws, January, I mean, from the list of deputies and secretaries of the respective committees. There's an appropriate statement by the group. Please check it out, and they all need to be excluded from this list. The other one. The request to amend the committee’s work. The minimum number should not be 11 and 6. Otherwise at least six committees won't start working. And the third. We ask the name Filatov to be placed on the board of control on matters of privatization as heads. It's the only last name that votes. All the other members.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u60	Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, the opposition bloc faction will vote against this decision. Because such a number of violations of laws, which are, if God forbid, this decree will be adopted, have not yet been made in any parliament, nor at any invocation. First of all, it's an illegal decision. And I suggest that you, Vladimir Borisovich, do not accept it, because it violates the Rules of Procedure Act, violates the quota principle set out in this law. We don't fight for seats in parliament, cabinet seats, committee seats. We just think that the vote of this law, one and a half million voters who voted for the Opposition Block, is trying to rule out political participation in the country. That's impossible. We'll protect it. That's why the Opposition Block faction leaves the right to appeal to the court in the event of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u61	Rules, please. Please, Vitaly Hometic, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished representatives of the coalition! I would like to say that what is happening in Parliament today and the division of positions that has now been voted on has nothing to do with the word democracy. If you take a quota allocation on committees, as is the case under the legislation, according to the Rules, this quota, which is issued by the Supreme Council's Authority, 3 committees, where there is to be leadership, should go to two members of the "will of the people" and "Economic development" groups. Three committees are also to be headed by representatives of the Opposition Block. We're not talking about that. on Parliament's leadership, where MPs should also be represented, not only by coalitions. This is what's going on. The coalition divided all 27 committees among themselves, and a third of Parliament remained outside the parliamentary process. I want to say that as early as 2008, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution that clearly defines rights and responsibilities, including opposition in the democratic parliament. And it says that members of the opposition should have access to the leadership of committees and other responsible positions in parliament. So we can say that the principle of the distribution that was now taking place was not democratic. And I also want to turn to, well, today everybody's been given this "honestly" label from the "honestly" movement, let the public and the media see if they've been honestly assigned to the boards today or not. So I think today's vote was such a complete farce. And no matter what position they were, the faction of Economic Development will still participate in committees, regardless of which posts, and will do everything to improve the economic situation in the country and raise social standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u63	Thank you. I'd like to ask you from the non-faction room, and then I'd like to see Oleg Barrezuk. Do we have any non-fractionals? Are you the first? Deputies Derevyanco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u64	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposal to remove the 16 people who voted in favour of dictatorial laws on January 16 from the decision to elect their heads, their first deputies, their deputy heads, and their secretaries. I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that it was on January 16, last year that it was completely unclear how things would go together. And for these people, for most people in the Supreme Council, which was at Yanukovic, it was a test. So today we have a large number of non-fractional patriotic deputies standing on Maidan, and I ask that those proposals of patriotic national deputies be taken into account so that they can take responsibility for the work of those or other committees, and instead of these people include non-fractional patriotic national MPs so that the Supreme Council can speak and work with dignity. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u65	Thank you, fellow national MPs. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, we have to take this decision, because the Supreme Council has to work on the creation of laws tomorrow, first of all. The second question. We will support our coalition colleagues that no MP who voted in favour of the criminal laws of January 16 should be in the leadership of the Supreme Council and the committees. And the third question, technical questions. We ask that the People's Deputy be transferred from Self-Help by Jaroslav Markevich of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship as a member of the Committee on Budget Policy. And the second question is that the Shepherd Taras Timothyovich, who is a member of the National Security and Defence Committee, is listed here as non-fractional, he is now a member of the Self-Help Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, as we agreed, we had two speakers. I see we're going to add two more hands and put a dot on that. Borislav Bereza and Eugene Guillerus, and Nestor Schuffritch of the vote. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, as the Ukrainian constructive opposition, we will not vote for this, so there are three reasons. First, we don't see three heads, we don't have three heads of the committee. This is the Committee on Regulatory Policy, this is the Committee on Financial Policy and this is the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Who are we voting for, I'm sorry? Secondly, we're trying to keep the regulatory committee behind us, and we're proposing Lewchenk Yuri for this position. And until this is done, we will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Nestor Schuffritch, then Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u70	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues, there has certainly been a difference in this room, but I would like to remind you of the words of our legendary speaker John Vasilovich Plush, who in his own time said that the Supreme Council may have anything or almost everything. Indeed, opposition to previous calls was viewed in a very different way. For example, the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call gave up the opposition to 10 committees, the seventh calling of 12. But you have another vision, so do it according to the law. First, make changes to the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act and write that the proportional principle is invalidated and that those who voted on 16 January have no right to anything. Then it'll be your decision to legitimize. And today, unfortunately, it looks like you're missing your wallets and you're just finding the possibilities and the reason to get for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, national MPs, all expressed themselves as I understand it. Geller, please, we'll finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u72	Dear Vladimir Borisovic, I would like to reiterate what the Berez deputy said about the absence of three committee heads. Also tell all the crickets in the hall that before shouting about the laws of 16 January, see that these laws have already been re-voted before the President of the Supreme Council of Turkey. So before you scream, you have to teach the game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Alexander Turchinov. I'd like to ask for suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I have a line because my last name has been mentioned here. The dictatorial laws of January 16 are a disgrace to the Supreme Council. After Maidan, the Supreme Council only adopted laws that required society, resulting from the Russian Federation’s war on Ukraine. [[Congrats]] And it's very sad that those separatists working against their own country here in the Supreme Council are still opening their mouths. So I ask, either they will work as Ukrainian deputies, or they will be removed from the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u75	Thank you. Yuri Lucenko on the vote, on the grounds of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u76	Dear head! Dear fellow MPs! As coalition coordinator, I would like to state that we have proposed that the opposition take three committees that can control the activities of the Ukrainian Parliament. The opposition insisted that freedom of speech and human rights be given to them. We cannot give the Committee freedom of speech to those who have destroyed freedom of speech. We cannot give the Human Rights Committee to those who have destroyed human rights. [[Applause]] I invite the chairman to make a decision taking into account technical amendments on the basis and then on the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u77	Based on what? And in general. I put to the vote the Order on the basis and, in general, the ruling that was prepared by the working group, taking into account the amendments that were announced by the People's Deputy Lucenko, the Turkinov. "Paternity," Philates, and by the number of committees. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis and in general. Please put to the vote. Please put to the vote on the basis and in general. Vote please! Please vote. Please vote on the basis as a whole. There was a proposal by Yuri Lucenko as a whole. Vote! [[17:43:02]] For 249 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, let's move on. I want to welcome everyone with what finally the Ukrainian Parliament fully can start our work I ask the National MP to sit down for his seat. I'm asking you to take your seat. There will be a discussion of the questions, and you will be able to express yourself. I said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u78	Thank you, fellows of honor! Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, fellows of honor! Please take your seats and we can. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no! Stop-stop-stop-stop-stop-stop! Stop it, dear fellows! Stop! [[B in m in s a l in]] Stop! Dear fellow national MPs! Please stop! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. It was. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, I'll give you motive. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, please! Sit down! Sit down, dear fellows! [[B in m in s a l in]] Sit down, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down, take your seats. Dear colleagues, there is the decision of the Preparatory Group, which included absolutely all the MP factions. The country’s national deputies have made a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. He introduced the coalition coordinator Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. In the coming order, I did it. Ukraine’s national deputies voted 246 with all the amendments and sound proposals that were being made. Let's put it at that point. And we're moving on, dear fellows. I ask everyone to take their seats, and I'll give the factions a minute. Please, sit down! One minute from the vote. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] I named the names that were changed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have named the names that made the amendments. Take your seats in the seating room, and we'll continue our work. For reasons of vote, I will now give every word. The factions will do everything else. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to sit in your seats, and I will give you all a word on the basis of one minute's vote on the factions. Oleg Valeriyovich, you'll have motive there. Please take your seats. Take your seats, please! Please, Ruslan Knazevitch asks for a statement on the grounds of the vote. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. Then from Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, may I have your attention? The point is that the Supreme Council's ruling is a somewhat different legal act than the laws which, according to the legislative procedure provided for in the Constitution and the Rules, can be adopted in two or even three readings. According to 138 articles of the Ukrainian Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council", the Supreme Council's rulings are immediately adopted as a basis and as a whole. And this is clearly stipulated by the law. The only exception may be if the Supreme Council has made a special decision that there will be two readings of the decrees. And then you have to send it to the committee for processing, for amendment. This case, when it comes to committee formation, makes it impossible to consider this decision in two readings. So you, Mr. Head, have done everything right in accordance with the Law of the Rules. And there can't be any other questions about that. All right, we've passed this rule according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u80	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Please, Oleg Lazko from the place, on the basis of the vote. From the rostrum? Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u81	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, Honourable Volodymyr Borisovich Groysman, elected Head of the Supreme Council! First of all, I have a request for you not to give a gift to our thieving opponents. Don't make presents! [[Applause]] One. The other one. I have a request for members of the coalition. Dear colleagues! We're all on the same submarine. We may have contradictions, but most importantly, it's the fate of the country. People chose us not to fight here for nothing, but to adopt laws that make life easier. So there's a big request, including to our fellow patriots who didn't join the coalition. Guys, let's work this out, let's work it out. What's important is that thieves are not allowed to rub their hands in corn, nor are they allowed to destroy Ukrainian society. I call on the coalition to unite. I also have many claims to that decision. But unity is more than anything, for the sake of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u82	Thank you, fellows of honor! I would like to point out that there is a proper procedure that Ruslan Knazevitch said about, and there are voices in the hall that can't be overlooked. So, please, let me celebrate the vote. Please, on the basis of the vote of Parasuk. Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko and National Deputy Levchenko, and we're taking a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u83	I mean, nobody wants to break any constructives in our work. The problem is that Maidan fought and the entire Ukrainian people struggled for transparency. If we work for the last half hour in this Parliament and show the whole Ukrainian society that they chose not idiots, but servants of the people, we're only going to set ourselves up. And to you, I want to tell you, once again, you open your bad mouth here, we're going to get you out of here very quickly, and we're not going to protect your millions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! I still, you know, I would ask that we all be tolerant. There's just no other way. Please, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, then Levchenko, then Stepan Kubi, and we're taking a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u85	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! It is a pleasure to be back in the warm, friendly atmosphere of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To see the kind faces of our colleagues in the governing coalition, to hear upbuilding shouts. But, to be serious, to the tragedies that have taken place in our country, if the people have viewed all of this as a free circus, after the deaths of the military and peaceful people in the eastern part of the country, the people look at it with disgust and look forward to a fruitful work from us, not a push of puss in Parliament and an image of each other. And behind us is one and a half million voters, just like each one of you. And you have to work at them, not beat each other up here, or scream. Therefore, dear friends! I want to bring you back to the question that stands on today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u86	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyevich, regulation. Please, Deputy Levchenko. I respect everyone's colleagues, but we have rules. Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u87	Leuchenko, Freedom. You know, the honourable chairman, the honourable majority, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, several times in the first parliamentary sessions, the rules of the Supreme Council have been violated harshly and the standards of parliamentaryism have been violated. First, when we had questions about vice-speakers, we didn't give out any material on vice-speakers, that is, we voted in favour of the cat in a bag, although in fact the Rules clearly stated that there should be a biography, a declaration and so on. Now we've just voted for the committee decree, where there are empty graphs, empty graphs, that's not clear who we're choosing. I'm approaching the Head, the Head says, "there will be responsibilities of the first intercessors." What is it? Is that a normal approach? And the apopheus of all of this was when one of Vladi Parasuku said, "You're not Majdan here, sit in your seat." You have to have a conscience, you know? I urge this person who said this to Parasuk to apologize. If he can't apologize to himself, let his faction apologize for this man. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. We agreed: Stepan of Cuba, we take risks and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u89	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear fellow MPs! You know, we have a chance of trust that's being exhausted, which the coalition has received, first and foremost, and we're not supposed to show disunity in the hall, because that's what they're waiting for. We should be the only ones we've ever had. Secondly, I want to say, and many of the people who were on Maidan are in this room. There was a period on Maidan and December 3 and December 11th, and in January several times, and in February, where in general, there were only 300 or 500 people left, and that would be confirmed by Alexander Turchinov and Mr. Alexander, and many of the people who were on Maidan, because the 24th number on Maidan was thousands. Scene. We had to stop people because they couldn't make it. I want to talk to you and one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u90	Regulation. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u91	In a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u92	No, no, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u93	I want to say it in one word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u94	Please don't clap. I said it was an order when there was more than a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u95	So you can rethink what we're doing right now, keep your mouth shut. I offer the Heavenly Hundreds and 150 people who have perished have perished in Maidan and those who die today behind Ukraine's silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u96	Everybody, please get up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u97	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-04-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! We have a report, to your knowledge, on the work of the commission. A preparatory working group. We don't vote that decision, it's out to your knowledge. I don't think he needs to be reported, you know what kind of work was done. I would also like to inform you, honourable national deputies, honourable colleagues, that the issue of the Conciliation Board of Deputies, MPs in accordance with article 73 of the Rules: The Conciliation Board of Deputies, the Deputies' Groups, is created as an advisory body for the preliminary preparation and consideration of organizational issues of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Conciliation Board consists of: Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Heads of Deputies, Deputies, Votes, and Heads of Committees with the right to advise. Since we have been elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the heads of the parliamentary factions and groups, the heads of the committees, we have thus established a Conciliation Council, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next question. So we've created the Conciliation Council, we've created committees today, we're going to start working with you fully. That was the main question that we considered today. Because in fact, we don't have time for both budget adoption and entry in 2015 and to carry out the important reforms that are needed today to stabilize the situation in the country. I would also like to inform you that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will be held on Tuesday. This Conciliation Council, as required by the regulations, will take place on Monday. And tomorrow we need to set up committees and all the other work issues. And on Tuesday at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work. The plenary meeting is tonight. Before that, yes, before I finish, we have to make three more statements. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report that an interfractional parliamentary association has been set up for Žitomirščina. The Interfractional Union is headed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Djublik Pavel Volodymirovich. And there's a statement from the people's deputies, as far as I can tell, right? Now I'm going to announce the factions. Tuesday. Yes. Three statements of entry into the People's Front faction of the People's Deputies of the People's Front faction of the People's Front, Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich to the People's Front faction, the entry and the People's Deputy of Drauk Sergey Euseiovich to join the People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session closed. The next meeting will be held at nine o'clock in the morning. Thank you all for your attention and for your work.
