ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! I'm informing you that we have today the birthday of the national deputy of the Adventure Anton Vicentiovich. And all deputies, please take your seats, prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:04:49]] There were 264 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues! Today is a very responsible day for the Ukrainian Parliament. Taking into account the danger of direct military incursion, taking into account the continuation of aggression in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which the Russian Federation is planning or trying to cover up with a false farce called "referendum", which will never be recognized by either Ukraine or all the civilized world. In view of all this danger, I signed the Partial Mobilization Order. This decree comes into force only after the approval of it by the Supreme Council. So the first question that we need to consider today is, of course, the draft Ukrainian Law on Approval of the Partial Mobilization Order. The related issue that we should consider is the Military Reserve Act. In order to provide for an economic and terrible crisis in the financing of the army, and we have no choice but to do so, the government held a meeting yesterday and amended Parliament's budget for the current year. The objective of these changes, I repeat, is to finance the primary needs of the Armed Forces and the National Guard. It is these fundamental questions, dear colleagues, that we should consider. I would ask that we have a broadcast on the street, because people are meeting at the Supreme Council, they want to hear what the Supreme Council is talking about, which decisions they make. At the same time, two factions — the Party of Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine — were on my desk before the session began, demanding a break. I'm talking to the factions, do you need to take a break or do you want to make a statement? [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, respected colleagues, insist on a break. There's an offer, my fellow Members, according to the Rules, they're entitled to it, we're taking a break for 15 minutes. No objection, dear colleagues? I ask the deputies not to disperse, the faction leaders to enter the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm going to the Secretariat, and I'm asking you to announce that all the national MPs will return from the towers to the hall in order to make very responsible and important decisions, decisions that depend on our country's security. Dear National Deputies! We're starting a review of the draft Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Partial Mobilization. Reported to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Paribai Andri Volodymyrovich. Please. I remind you that this issue does not need to be included in the agenda and is automatically entered into the agenda when the relevant decree is signed. By procedure. Dear colleagues, there is an offer for us to discuss from factions. No objections? That's how we're going to work. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u3	A boy named Andrew. In accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act, at its meeting on the President's executive initiative, it was proposed to announce partial mobilization in Ukraine. The relevant decision was drafted by a decree which, according to the Constitution and the Ukrainian Defence Act, should be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to read the U.S. Presidential Decree on Partial Mobilization. The social and political situation on the Crimean Peninsula has worsened. Uncovered aggression has taken place, the capture by the Russian side of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Illegally created pro-Russian weapons formations for the support of the military forces of the Russian Federation are enthralled and blocked by the structures of state authorities, authorities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, airports, land and maritime transport, military authorities, military forces and the Ukrainian Armed Forces, located on the Crimea Peninsula. In view of the sharp complexity of the internal political situation, the intervention of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's internal affairs, the rise in social tension in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, and in accordance with paragraphs 1, 17, 20, of the first article 106, of article 112 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I hereby rule: First. Declare and carry out partial mobilization (further called mobilization). The other one. Mobilization takes place in the areas of Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk and Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, Zaporziski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Kyivsky, Kirovogradski, Lugansk, Lvivsky, Mikolaiivski, Odessk, Poltavski, Ravenski, Sumski, Ternopilski, Kharkivsky, Hersonski, Hmeljnicki, Cerkaske, Cherniewski, Chernievski, Černigivski. Mobilization in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol is made up of citizens who voluntarily wanted to be drafted for military service, including by the arrival of military commissioners and military forces. Third. Mobilization takes place within 45 days of the date of entry into force of this decree. Four. Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Ukrainian National Guard Authority, Head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, Commander of the Ukrainian National Guard, Head of the Central Executive Authority, which has the military formation of Ukraine under its control, the Civilian Protection Operations Service to transfer Ukraine's subordinated military formations *** Civilian Protection Operations Service to the organization and state of wartime. Fifth. The call for military-related personnel, including reserve personnel and transportation equipment to provide for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard of Ukraine, to carry out the ranges determined by the mobilization plans, taking into account the reserve. Six. Local executive authorities, with the involvement of local self-government authorities, should organise and ensure that: First. The timely announcement and arrival of citizens who are called to military service. The arrival of technicians at assembly stations and military units. The other one. Provision of temporary buildings, buildings, land, transport and other material and technical equipment, provision of services to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine, other military formations of Ukraine according to the mobilization plans. Seven. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine shall provide funding and use within the limits of the authorizations of other measures relating to the announcement and the conduct of partial mobilization. This decree takes effect after its approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Acting President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Turchinov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? Please sign up for a faction question. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Cherniakov, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u5	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u6	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear reporter, there is a question: Why 45 days? Is it possible to reduce, as a minimum, up to 30 days and about the amount that is planned to be mobilized in the first place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u8	Thank you for asking. In fact, the term for mobilization provided for by law is maximum. It's actually going to be much faster and it's going to be able to mobilize. The Ukrainian Armed Forces will mobilize 20,000 Ukrainian citizens, and the Ukrainian National Guard another 20,000. Literally yesterday, a meeting was held on the matter of the National Guard. There are now orders for the transfer of objects and the creation of mobilization centres, and in fact, for the National Guard and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, a large-scale work is already being prepared to ensure that mobilization is carried out in much more concise terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u9	Please, Pavlovsky National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u10	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u11	Please turn on Mikoli Tomenko's microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u12	We support this document, we consider it important and timely, given the situation that has taken place. Of course, I was asked where the referendum numbers could have come from and I said they were sensational figures. Because we were expecting it to be 101 percent. Because the way it was organized and how it was provided, and under the barrels of machine guns as it were done, as it were, some other adequate figures would hardly be evaluated in the referendum. But our request to you is next. In addition to the military component, it is obvious that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Public Prosecutor’s Office, and the Security Service should be activated. We understand very well that the vast majority of provocations in eastern Ukraine are made by the citizens of Russia, who are part of neo-Nazi organizations. Obviously, this needs to be informed, people need to know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. I would like to confirm your statement that, in fact, in the South and East of Ukraine today are trying to provoke, including not just the citizens of the Russian Federation, I stress, not just the citizens, but the elite forces who are trying to reach the territory of Ukraine with weapons and who are actually trying to implement a joint plan that predicted and envisions such a scenario in the south-eastern areas as it was in Crimea. Yesterday, I can speak responsibly, they planned under the conditional name "Russian Spring" to capture the district administrations, to capture the authorities in the southeast. At night they planned the election of the people's governors, and within a week they planned a so-called "crossing" on Kiev. There's been a mobilization, and despite the fact that there's no police situation today, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u15	The state of the police, let's say that after the events that took place in Ukraine, remains complex, however, the necessary units in those areas have been concentrated. And despite the fact that the situation remains difficult, the situation remains tense, but yesterday the plan they planned abroad was not implemented. And there is reason to say that the measures that have been and are being implemented are now sufficient to prevent a repeat of the Crimean scenario in the south-eastern areas of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u16	Please, Gordijenko, the Ukrainian Company, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u17	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I have two questions for the chairman and a reporter. Please tell the MPs here and the whole Ukrainian community what "partial mobilization" is? This time. And the second. Don't you think it's necessary to assign the heads of the district state administrations of those who are, because the mobilization plans today depend on coordinated action, including the local executive authorities. And today it's not how it's going to work. And they should be appointed by completely authoritative people, who are now being trusted by the districts and the regions themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u18	Thank you. I'm going to read a paragraph of the law that says, "Partial mobilization can take place in separate parts of the state, and also refer to a certain part of the national economy of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, civil protection forces, enterprises, institutions and organizations." To determine the volumes that we currently have to mobilize the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the National Guard, the decree provides sufficient conditions to ensure that the necessary mobilization measures are implemented. This issue concerns not only the Ukrainian Armed Forces but also the economic bloc. So we had a joint meeting with the National Security and Defence Council and the Prime Minister as well as our economic bloc in the government. There were calculated costs, not small costs, because it was not just a summons, but the need for rapid and full-fledged weapons for those who were called into the army. The amount was determined, the funding mechanisms were calculated, and yesterday the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine made the necessary decisions, the allocations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u20	Almost 7 billion to provide for the needs provided for in the President's Order. Thus, the necessary measures have been taken, and today it is only for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as provided for by law and the Constitution, to vote and approve this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u21	The word is given to the National Deputy Herman, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Secretary, I ask you to stress the duty of "voluntary mobilization" when it comes solely to all regions of Ukraine, not just the Crimea, as you have pointed out, but to all regions, especially the Eastern ones, so as not to disrupt the situation, so that mothers who do not understand what is happening and fear civil war do not protest. The word "voluntary mobilization" will allow us to maintain peace in the eastern regions of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. But in fact, the mobilization mechanism is clearly prescribed and provided for in article 4 of the Law on Mobilization and Mobilization. And just based on an article of Ukrainian law, we can and should be mobilized. And that's why the President's Order has a clear reference to this article, and under the Ukrainian Law, mobilisation is being carried out. In the National Guard of Ukraine, there will be a large part of the contractors, but all other mobilization measures will be carried out based on the Law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u24	I want to comment on the answer to that question, or add it to that answer. Of course, we're doing, let's say, the basis for the mobilization of people who voluntarily join the army, as well as military professionals who served in the military, service in the army. Of course, there is no wager on children who are 18 years of age during partial mobilization. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u25	Please give the floor to the ex-Defense Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u26	Mr. Reporter, first of all, the MP's Economic Development Group will clearly support the bill. But I have a question for you. If the law on the Council of National Security and Defence was considered, why were no members of the Committee on Defence and Security of the Supreme Council present? And if they were present, I would read in this law such an important thing as the mobilization plan of the state. I want to prove to the MPs that this most important document has not been clarified for 10 years at all, then it would not be spoiled, but it would be clearly described as the task of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And there would be control in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u27	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u28	and would be ultimately put on the Security and Defence Council, implementing this decree. Thank you for your attention, and please correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u29	Thank you. I want to say that when the Council of National Security and Defence meets, when it passes, it is exclusively attended by members of the Council of National Security and Defence who are part of this body under the authority and provided for by law. I agree with you that some meetings may need to be attended by representatives of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will consider such possibilities. And perhaps your logic is that at this meeting it made sense to invite a representative of the committee. We will continue to invite representatives of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider important issues. But once again, there are members of the PNP who are authorized to make decisions and who are authorized to vote. I also want to use what is time to emphasize. In order for us to understand this issue together, when we began to work fully, the army was in an extremely difficult state, three years earlier, the previous leadership had made a deliberate effort to destroy it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u31	To destroy and destroy the Ukrainian army. Since the first days, we have done everything we can to bring our army into martial law. Therefore, the first decision of the RNB, which was put into effect by the President's decree, was to bring our Ukrainian Armed Forces into full combat readiness. We were able, once again, to translate all existing units into a state of combat readiness. Now we're moving on to a second legal stage that will allow us to mobilize, make us stronger, and make our Armed Forces of Ukraine more viable. So I ask everyone to respond responsibly to today's decision and to support it in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u32	And once again, Rosenko, the strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u33	Please give the word to Roman Chernezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u34	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Andrew Volodymyrovich! I don't have a question, I have a suggestion, and we've already said something to you: a request to take into account the material and technical bases that are not only military today, but, let's say, subordinates to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I mean the legal institutions, the schools of the militia, because, in particular, in Western Ukraine, there are pretty good material and technical bases, ranges to conduct effective training for those people who are now going to be enrolled in the National Guard, so that they actually pass high school, are ready to defend Ukraine, and also to ensure peace and tranquillity in all the regions of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. This is indeed an important question. It has been spoken and even calculated the number of bases that need to be transferred as quickly as possible especially for the National Guard of Ukraine, which actually needs such bases. And that's why the President's decree, even a separate paragraph, in item six, states that the heads of the local administrations are actually to allocate both the premises and the land areas and the institutions to carry out full mobilization plans. Now this work is being done, but after the decision is being taken, there are actually draft decisions already being prepared, already prepared, and there's an amount that needs to be transferred to the Ukrainian Armed Forces for the National Guard. As soon as the decision is made, this large - scale work will be carried out throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u36	Thank you. Olesia Donej, the "North European Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u37	The group "Sovereign European Ukraine" clearly supports all actions of power aimed at preserving Ukraine's territorial integrity and, in particular, we support this directive "Partial Mobilisation". And the question is. Do you consider it appropriate to advise military professionals, to create a separate headquarters for coordination and to get Ukraine out of the crisis? Do you think that the National Security and Defence Council has enough force to carry out this task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. I would like to report that the National Security and Defence Council has created an operational headquarters, which includes representatives of all forces. And I emphasize once again, not only the powerful ones, but also those who today serve the issues of national security and defence. In fact, almost every day this headquarters is meeting and today it will be at the second hour of its meeting. Security and defence issues are being addressed at that headquarters. In addition, an expert advisory board has been set up in the PNA, which includes the most authoritative experts on security and defence and those who led the PNA and those who have sufficient authority and experience to make recommendations to date. Today, there are structures, and I stress once again, both the Operations Headquarters and the Advisory Group. Almost every evening, the PNB gathers for meetings to assess the current situation and make decisions. And I think the bureaucratic upgrade and the creation of another separate headquarters, it's not going to help, it's just going to make it harder, I'm stressing again, it's just going to make it harder.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u40	Decision-making. It's actually open to all experts today. Almost every one of those who has their recommendations, and I'm seeing them personally -- they're joining us in our work. I'm sure if we act in harmony. I'm really into this, guys, MPs, society, I'm underlining: it's settled. We can overcome these challenges that lie ahead. The greatest danger facing Ukraine today, after, of course, the invasion of the outside, is self - eating and self - destruction, which is unfortunately being artificially and deliberately inspired today. And I'm sure it's from the outside, too. We will work together, we will work shoulder to shoulder, and, I am sure, together we will be able to overcome the challenges and challenges facing Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we had a detailed opportunity to ask questions, to get answers. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you can sit down. Can we ask questions for a vote? We can. Please, Your Honor, sit down and we will vote in favour. I ask, my fellow Members, to sit in your seats so that we can make a decision and support a consolidated vote. Colleagues, I'm addressing it with a consolidated vote to show a position. The Ukrainian Parliament is demonstrating unity so that we can protect our country. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law approving the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Partial Mobilisation (No. 4466) on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1:15:16 For 275 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 16, Fatherland is 79, Klicka is 35, Economic Development is 35, Sovereign European Ukraine is 32, Freedom is 34, Company is 0, non-fractional is 44. Thank you to the national deputies who supported this decision. Dear colleagues, this is an offer. We're going to be able to come out of factions. Let's take this as a binding law, which has the honour of informing the general of the army, the head of the national security subcommittee, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. This is the draft Act (No. 2591) amending certain Ukrainian military service laws. Second reading, I recall. Please, Alexander Ivanovich, briefly remind your distinguished colleagues of the content of the law, and there will be a proposal to support the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, you and I have carefully considered this law five months ago. Since then, additions have come, adjustments that are all taken into account, except for one thing. At that time, I would ask, going back to the law that was, it's very easy to solve partial mobilization. We summon officers, we create military battalions, we staff the National Guard, we turn everyone who stands before the Supreme Council today into the National Guard, and we defend the state. And this law I ask you to adopt in general without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, thank you to the general for his brief and meaningful report. We can put the law to the vote by adopting it as a basis and as a whole. Please support the adoption of the Act (No. 2591) amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding military reserve service in general. Please vote. In the second reading and in general. [[11:17:38]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you, fellows of honor! The factions, please. Region Party 20, Parenthood 77, Impact 34, Economic Development 36, Sovereign European Ukraine 31, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 44. Dear colleagues! We have a very serious question. In order to mobilize, to arm the army, we need financial resources. The economy of the country is in a very difficult state. A huge budget gap. But in these circumstances, the government met for an emergency meeting yesterday and accepted proposals for funding the first-line, I emphasize, the primary needs of the Armed Forces, the National Guard and the defenses of about 7 billion bracelets. I would now like to hear the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2014. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian government is proposing for your consideration a draft change to the 2014 State Budget, which is called upon to ensure that the decision you have just taken is implemented. We had very little time to prepare this bill. However, we worked for three days, in fact day and night with our military, who are present and can provide additional advice on the direction of the expenses. I'll give you the totals. In order to mobilize for three months, we need 7.6 billion dollars. A large part of these funds are in our chief budget administrators. So the amount proposed for redistribution is 6 billion 882 million. Where will this cost go? For one thing, almost half of this amount is the acquisition of weapons and technology, it's the repair of technology, the capital repair of technology, it's the acquisition of special vehicles and special cars. Next, it's military equipment and fuel-oil materials. This is the holding of educational congregations and camps. This is an additional mobilization of 43.9 thousand military personnel: 20,000 by the Ministry of Defence, 20,000 by internal forces, and 3.9 thousand by border. This is their proper diet, means of communication, and so forth. We have a schedule of funding actually every day. Now the hardest question is, where do you get the money? 6.88. 6 billion 880 million? Unfortunately, we don't have any other options, I want to emphasize this, except how to redistribute expenditure in the 2014 State Budget. We came up with this: first of all, we suggest cutting capital costs, so to speak, because under the conditions of today's state, we don't have to talk about financing capital expenditure. I want to tell the people's deputies that the 6.8 billion we're talking about today is far from the amount we're going to have to talk to you about in this room about the budget sequester. I'm going to predict that next week I'm going to be standing on this stand and I'm going to talk about completely different numbers that I'm going to have to cut. So I wanted to calm down some of those who are upset by the proposals after the budget cuts today and unfortunately upset those who may have stayed in the budget with their programs. And so far, it's proposed: more than a billion dollars off centralised capital expenditure; more than a billion dollars off of the Regional Development Fund; almost 600 million from the Mining Foundation is about repairing priority objects; elevators; outdoor lighting; wholesale agriculture; Ukraineling; Euro-2015 and many other articles that are in the project that you've been given, which will help us find expenses to literally start funding for 6.8 billion of our military. As proposed, these costs are to be concentrated. We suggest we focus them on the reserve fund. Why the contingency fund? Because of the need for funding, the need for switching will be constant. And in order not to collect the Supreme Council Hall every time, we're not gathering a committee of the Supreme Council to do it in, like, a capital expense in a reserve fund. Actually, what I wanted to tell you was ready to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, is there a need for questions? I see three arms, four, five. Well, then why don't we follow the procedure, no question that we're going to discuss this? Please support the expedited procedure. Please, back up. [[11:23:02]] For 211 The decision is supported by 211 people’s deputies. That's why we're working on a reduced procedure. Please sign up for a reduced procedure. Please, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the National MP of the Marchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u47	Turn on the microphone, please, the Orphan People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u48	The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union clearly supports all the State's efforts to increase the security of our country, both through partial mobilization and increased funding for our army. At the same time, we believe that. In fact, war has been waged against Ukraine, and our army has not been re-armed or funded for more than 23 years. We believe that it is necessary to secure Ukraine's state budget for this period: 5 percent of GDP should go to the financing of our army until it is fully rearmed, and the army must be rearmed at least 3 percent. Because no international legal guarantees work. In the development of this topic, we believe it is necessary to restore funds to the army in full terms of the system of initial military training and civil defence in general schools and the network of military pulpits in the WUZah. We believe that it is necessary to stop the destruction of military towns and military facilities in Ukraine and to preserve existing military towns. We consider it necessary to clean up the power and the power structures of Moscow's agency, to defuse Russian-funded subversive organizations, to delimit and demarcate borders. If Russia insists on doing so unilaterally, for this year it has not even allocated money to complete the demarcation of the border with Belarus and the demarcation of borders with Russia. We consider it necessary to focus efforts on the settlement of separatist centres, to ensure that Russia's military bases are withdrawn from Ukraine. We consider it necessary, in view of the actual declaration of war by Russia to Ukraine, to immediately break the Kharkiv Agreements of Januković Medvedev from 21 April 2010. We demand the immediate enforcement of all decisions of the Ukrainian courts concerning the removal of Ukrainian property and the illegal use of the Black Sea fleet by the Russian Federation not only in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u49	Please give me an answer. I understand, Alexander Vitaliyovich, that the Cabinet of Ministers will continue to consider the issue of the financial security of the Armed Forces. Dear colleagues, the only thing we have to take into account is the conditions under which the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance are working today -- the budget gap and the problems they have inherited since the complete destruction of the economy of the country. Please, next question. Ivakhov National Deputy, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u50	Please give the word to the national deputy Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Minister! We've looked at those articles where you want to take the money we're offering. We suggest, article 250100 -- providing life for the disabled of war, the internationalist soldiers, the citizens who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster -- do not touch this article. The second article. One-time payout for women who are awarded the honorary title of "Mother Hero." I'll tell you that we've met heroin mothers on many occasions. Today, heroin mothers are people 70, 80, 86 years old with 12 children. We cannot touch this article at all. But instead, we offer. Article: "National Training Agency for the Euro-2012. We have a billion 698 million there. We're taking down 400, we're going to have a billion 200 left. So let's take this out of here, let's do a full audit of the construction work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u54	Let's do a full audit of this article on "costs and expenses" and make up for all these costs. The second article. The National Stock Company of Ukragroling. The agrarian committee has conducted a full study of the company's work, and this company has brought no benefit to Ukraine today. We suggest that all the money be taken out of this budget without touching the heroin mothers and the internationalist soldiers and the Chernobyls. It's a proposal from the "North European Ukraine" faction. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u55	I think it's a good offer. Alexander Vitaliyovich, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u56	Thank you. I want to ask you to take a closer look at this: all the money from Kragroling is taken off, all 140 million, they're offered for takeoff. As far as Euro is concerned. Dear colleagues, I want you to hear me. We don't have the living money to finance Euro in this budget. We have the government guarantees that were given, the money was taken, and the money was spent. How? Let the Attorney General handle it. But the living money that we can cut in the budget, unfortunately, is not there. So I have a big request, and I am very sorry to cut some articles. But the principle of a decision that has been made in government, we cannot finance housing for anyone this year. Unfortunately, neither for government officials nor for military, nor for the Chernobyls, we can't do that for anyone. That is why all the housing finance articles have been removed. As far as heroin mothers are concerned. It's also an extremely unpleasant situation. But the problem is (we're leaving a part of the sum) that we still can't solve to figure out how many we have. We have a huge pile of notes from different control bodies, where twice they get this help three times. And so I assure you that we will work on the budget and that we will return if we have real numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u57	People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u59	Please turn on Vitaly Call's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we understand which one is now, and we have just heard the state of the state budget -- the big budget deficit. We also heard the state of the army today. And we all realize that the army today depends on the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. We are very grateful to all those who have telephoned or sent texts to 565 to raise money to support the army in order to make all the conditions for those who defend, swear and defend sovereignty, the independence of our country. So the impact faction is coming out with an initiative, and I'm also calling on all colleagues who have the opportunity to support this initiative, 25 percent of our wages, we're counting on military support or a week's salary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u61	Let me finish, please, Vitalia Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u62	weekly earnings are also counted as either 25 percent or weekly earnings. We will be very grateful who will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u63	Thank you for the initiative. It's a very important offer. Dear colleagues, we have Chevchenko's national MP, last question, "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u64	The Fatherland faction will support the bill. And I'd like to give Anatoly Grizzenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u65	Please turn on Anatoly Grizzenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u66	Mr. Minister, Parliament will support this bill, everyone understands the need. But there are some serious comments. First. It's not just subtracting and dividing, it's multiplying. The next step is to propose an increase in rent payments for those who earn, and at the same time, the oligarchs are not so poor now, and the army can help. That's the first one. The other one. State administration of affairs, liquor factories and all the other delicacies are just as likely to be eliminated. You're assigning a new manager instead of Kaskov, eliminating that agency is just a loss of money, Kaskov's agency. And the key position. Under the transcript, please, Alexander Valentinovich, under the transcript. Since a reserve fund is being created that will quickly distribute everything, please (under the stenogram) that the distribution agrees with the two committees: the first is the profile that leads Lithuania, the safety and the defence and the second, so that there is no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u67	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u68	And the second committee to avoid the abuse led by Chumak in the fight against corruption and organized crime. Then we'll be sure the money goes where it's supposed to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we had a chance. You want to comment, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u70	Thank you very much to National Deputy Griesenko, he has raised an extremely important subject. I would like to emphasize once again, dear colleagues, hear me, next week we're going to have to look for an opportunity to cover the fiscal gap in the budget for another 60 billion, according to my previous estimates, if not more, it's also 71, which is already in budget deficit. Unfortunately, Mr. Igor, we're going to shorten everything, the social standards of everyone and everyone who didn't fall under this law. He won't fall, he'll fall for the next one. And then, Mr. Gritsenko, we will definitely return to the rent payments and to other things, our bills on this subject are ready and will be submitted soon to Parliament and I would ask for their support. As far as committee control is concerned, I fully agree with you, and I think that's how we're going to clearly distribute this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Can we make decisions? We can make decisions. Here's the only question that raises the hand I see, and the head of the profiling committee, we have a situation in connection with the urgency of the matter and the need to make decisions as quickly as possible, we haven't been able to hold a budget committee in the morning. I'm going to the hall, can we make decisions without considering the budget committee? We can. We can. Dear colleagues! In view of the situation, I am convinced that this is an exception that needs to be made in the context of a situation that is unfolding around our country, with the need to protect the country and to distract it. The question of voting for this project, without the committee's consideration, can we put it to a vote? You can put it to a vote. Please, please sit in your seats, prepare for the vote and support the bill (4464): amending the Ukrainian National Budget for 2014 – this refers to the need to finance the primary needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please support as a whole. Please vote. [[11:34:57]] For 243 Decision taken. The army's first needs can already be provided with finance. Please, by the factions. Regional Party 7, Fatherland 77, Impact 33, Economic Development 18, Sovereign European Ukraine 32, Freedom 34, Company 0, non-fractional 42. Dear colleagues, we have a few questions that we can consider quickly and then make a decision about the work of our Supreme Council. Because today we are going to consider issues that have already been adopted, and I thank the MPs very much for their timely and effective work. Colleagues, come on, we have an offer. In the meantime, the minister of the Cabinet of Ministers will come forward to present a proposal for the appointment of the State Committee on Television and Radio. Plus we have a few suggestions from the Party of Regions, though they are. I see the faction did not vote in favour of very important issues for the country. At that time, there is an offer to take two minutes from the factions and allow non-fractionals to discuss the accepted issues. Is there no objection? None. Let's write down from factions for two minutes to discuss. Please. Please invite the Cabinet Minister to the hall. Please sign up for the performance. Please, from the Fatherland faction, John Stoyko. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u72	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u73	Please come to the rostrum, Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Dear citizens! I think today's decisions that we've adopted are decisions that allow us to start a very important phase of preparation for the real backdrop of the aggressor. There's a whole series of decisions that we're going to have to make in an extra way. One of the most important decisions is the decision to be taken with regard to the Act on Occupied Areas. Because after the farce of yesterday, where the will of Ukrainian citizens was actually simulated in Crimea, after this will is not recognized by any international organization, and most importantly not recognized by the people of Ukraine, we have the question that our citizens living in Crimea should be protected both in the budget plan and in the territorial integrity plan, and in the service plan, if this is the case with the militia, the Security Service, the Prosecutor's Office, the armed forces that are located in our territory, which unfortunately is now occupied by the enemy. We need to define a clear order of funding for these areas. We also have a question, and I'm sure we'll never go there to shut our citizens down from water supply, electricity, gas supply. But we need to determine the order in which all these objects are financed, because these are our citizens, and we need to provide them with exactly the same conditions as for Ukrainian citizens. Moreover, the issue of the protection of those citizens who represent the illegally evicted peoples of Crimea remains open. An appropriate law on the status of citizens who were illegally evicted from Crimea is adopted in the first reading. And I think that our task -- now in the second reading -- will be to pass the appropriate bill to support those of our citizens who have shown courage, principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u76	during the so-called referendum. And one last question. We adopted yesterday all the decisions concerning the elections. There's already an application for the Council of Cherkas. This decision can be made because we have passed all the procedures defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u77	Thank you. The word is given to the representative of the faction "Supreme European Ukraine". Olesia Donya. Yes, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u78	To make a statement, please pass the word to Igor Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u79	Please come to the rostrum of the national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u80	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, Ukraine is in a difficult situation. There is an enemy on the borders of our country. And more than ever, the Ukrainian people and parliament, as the supreme legislative body of Ukraine, as the only legitimate body, must demonstrate the union and unity of opposition to the enemy. Unfortunately, however, we see very often today that not all political forces stand on one side of the enemy. And we see that today, very often, some political forces where provocations go, where separatism claims go, are at these rallies, and they support separatist challenges. We believe that the Sovereign European Ukraine is our faction that these political forces should make clear statements and clearly condemn all the politicians and deputies of the Supreme Council who take part in these actions. Today we supported all those bills that were passed. And we think that these are the right laws because Ukraine is facing a war. But we are addressing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today, and we ask that we approach carefully every article that goes on to change the budget. I would point out once again that when we're talking about withdrawing funds from the financing of heroin mothers, I can't believe there's multiple documents. We've seen a number of times, especially the deputies who are in the districts, we've seen the eyes and hands of these people -- 70-80-90 years old. Many of them do not live to this point. I am convinced that this article does not need to be touched. We think that the money should then be removed from the tax police, where billions of dollars are invested in financing. Once again, we stress the need for every step to be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, taking into account the speech of the national deputy Jeremeyev and the support of the Hall, we have been instructed by the Cabinet of Ministers to review this issue, to conduct a clear examination of the registry of heroin mothers and to provide funding in accordance with this register. And during the budget sequestration scheduled for the next session, hopefully next week. Not in a sessional session, but next week, I ask that this issue be settled. Is it supported? Supported. We're giving the Cabinet of Ministers an assignment. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Orotyuk, "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u82	Glory to Ukraine! Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, we are living at a time when we see that the international security assurances of Ukraine are not working. We understand that the policy of appeasement never stops the aggressor but results in other consequences, and we see this in the situation with South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Today we understand that only the self-awareness, only the increase in our security, only the enhancement of Ukraine's security is a guarantee and guarantee the preservation of our nation's present territorial size. Our recent northern neighbours, and today's aggressors Russia, have stated that they intend to run a visa regime for Ukraine. Today, Ukraine should use this proposal and maintain a visa regime for citizens of the Russian Federation. Today we must strengthen, except for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, except for the Ukrainian National Guard, which we restored last week, we must strengthen the State Border Service. Again, this year no funds were allocated in the criminal budget for the continuation of the demarcation and delimitation of the state border, the eastern and the northern state borders. We need to address this flaw. We must immediately secure in the state budget a fixed amount of funds to go towards re-arming the Ukrainian army. At this time, we think about 5 percent, and 3 percent when we can re-arm our army. Once again, we urge, the State, our security forces to immediately suppress all separatist acts. The Security Service should publish lists of KGB agents, the FSB, who are still in the higher authorities of the state, the Ukrainian Special Services, and probably the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We need to tighten up all the cesspools of separatism, their funding. To do this, we need to engage all our forces. We must strengthen the militia, with the rest, patrols and blockades in the eastern areas of Ukraine, so that these gastrolers, the fighters from the Russian Federation, who are causing armed provocations against the peaceful Ukrainians are stopped, arrested and punished accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u83	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u84	And the last. Today, thousands of Ukrainians have the desire to defend the Ukrainian state. We need to create a national reserve of Ukrainians so that they can pass through the highlands, arm themselves, and in case we have to go to protect our homeland. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Heratchenko, the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! I think we're all getting thousands of calls these days from those citizens who are experiencing Crimea being occupied. Obviously we have to do everything we can to protect them. First. The Supreme Council is yet to adopt this week, ratify the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and recognize the Crimean Tatar people as a criminal people in order to protect them from possible ethnic cleansing. You know, the Crimean Tatars survived Stalin's genocide. We must not allow them to survive their genocide and deportation from Putin. Because we have to stop it. The other one. We fully support what needs to be developed urgently, and impact already has work to do, the Law on occupied temporary territory. In order for all the citizens who need protection there today, including the Ukrainians and the Russians who don't play this Sabbath and the Crimean Tatars, all the normal citizens of Crimea have our protection. Third. You know, today, when we call on the whole world to recognize sanctions against separatists and those roadside promoters who occupy Ukraine, why doesn't Ukraine introduce those sanctions? Obviously, we need to contact the Ukrainian Security Service to announce without delay the characters who daily on the Hebelsian channels are tearing our country apart, who are actually bringing this fornication into people's hearts. Acidov has no right even to fly through Ukraine, not to come here! And so all those senators who voted in favour of a war in Ukraine should be declared non grata persons, they have no right to just be here! What, then, do we call on the European Union to impose sanctions without doing so ourselves? You know, we're talking a lot today about the economy of the Ukrainian budget. That's right. Dear voters, do you know, these grandmothers who get a pension in a thousand dollars that the Communists get a monthly salary of 15,000 dollars! And they haven't voted in a month! We call on the Chief of the Supreme Council not to pay off the Communist faction for this month as a minimum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u88	Because they have no right to be in this room at all. Next. We want to say that we are calling on the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to stop separatists who are actually untouched today, starting with Victor Yanukovich Jr., who allows separatist interviews on all media, and ending with others. Not a place for separatists in the Supreme Council of Ukraine! We demand: to break criminal cases, to look at their separatist statements, not to go to the session hall -- to leave them without a mandate, and let them answer according to the law. Like Aksion and Constantine, who are impostors and not leaders who are self-proclaimed in the Crimea. Only in unity, only together will we keep with you dear colleagues, an independent, sovereign Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I propose the questions that Irina Heraszczenko has asked the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office to set up protocol as a parliamentary request and send them for immediate response. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Supported. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Nestor Suffritch by a faction of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u90	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, of course, in these circumstances, unity must be the main thing. And we need to unite in order to come out of this deep and complex crisis. But in order to unite in this room and send appropriate signals throughout Ukraine, we need to hear and see each other. The position of the faction of the region with respect to the decree was constructive and clear. What did we ask? We asked for an amendment to the decree, which was in our power to determine clearly in the second paragraph that the mobilization of the military and the sergeants was carried out on a voluntary basis, and, if necessary, the mobilization of military specialists was carried out solely out of the composition of an officer, a reserve officer. I think it would be supported by a constitutional majority. Because today, believe me, it is very dangerous to send signals that children can be mobilized today. Today it's not like we're doing the mobilization. Today, we need to mobilize military specialists and do everything we can to ensure that the country does not have adequate maternal fears about its children. Our faction insists that two commissions of inquiry be established. That is, the whole society is concerned about what happened between February 18 and 20 in our country. And whoever is to blame, Yanukovich or someone else, has to be held accountable for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u91	Let me finish. Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u92	And we, as none of us are most interested in being found and punished wherever they hide. Therefore, we suggest that we set up an investigation commission to determine the circumstances of the snipers ’ involvement. In addition, we ask to immediately vote on the establishment of an investigative commission to avoid political persecution. We can scream today, we can insult each other, but without unity in this room we will not ensure the unity of our country. We need to hear and see each other. And it will guarantee unity in this room and the unity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, from the non-fractional National MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. When the Russian military captured the Supreme Council of Crimea and the Council of Ministers, and we held meetings here, and I called for decisive action to end the aggression, Shufric and others told me that I was an instigator. And let's take it easy, let's settle it. From the government! A referendum took place yesterday. Now Shufrech comes out again and tells us: It's not the time to mobilize, it's not the time. And when is the time? When will Ukraine be captured? When will Russian tanks in Kiev stand? You tell me about unity, let us unite. How are you doing, collaborators? Here's a statement signed on March 13th, from the Party of Regions – Constantinov, from the Communist Party – Solomakin, from the Party "Soyuz" – Savchenko, from the Party "Russian Unity" – Aksionov. The statement that they support the referendum is that they recommend voting for secession from Ukraine, that the members of the commission be delegated to the referendum and so on. Here's the basis for banning the Company and the Party of Regions! Why, you support the unification of Crimea from Ukraine! So I, my fellow MPs, am addressing you and saying that only determined action can protect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. I have registered a draft Order on First Action in connection with the Russian Federation’s military aggression (registration number 4465), which proposes a clear list of measures to be taken by Ukraine to stop the aggression in order to win this war that the Russian Federation is currently leading against us. I'm going to the Head of the Supreme Council, and I'm going to look at this draft Order right now because the measures that we voted on today, they're not enough, I'm stressing, to stop the aggression. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u95	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u96	So I ask you not to dissolve the Supreme Council, to continue the meetings, to make all the necessary decisions to stop the aggression. This is the removal of the parliamentary mandates of those who voted in favour of separating Crimea from Ukraine. This is the end of diplomatic relations with Russia, because Russia has declared war on us. It's a denunciation of the agreements for the Black Sea fleet of Russia to stay in Crimea. This is a denunciation of the great, so - called, Friendship Agreement since 1997, since there is no friendship anymore. And most important. Alexander Valentinovich, you are serving as High Commander. Let's speak plainly: those who block military units in the Lugansk and Donetsk region today, the border guards are the hands of the invaders. And I demand that they act according to military law: no one has the right to block the defenders of the country as they go to defend Ukraine's independence and territorial integrity. And the last. We 46 million people living in Ukraine, from the strength of 5,000 to 10,000 running with Russian flags, are calling for accession to Russia. I offer these Ukrainian citizens who work for Russia to take away Ukrainian citizenship and to go to Russia with their passports. Ukraine must defend itself! Otherwise we will lose Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have a lot of hands. Come on, the line was called. Oleg Tagnibok's word for replication. And, colleagues, we need to take up personnel issues, including the establishment of parliamentary mandates. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u98	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A respected society has just come up with information that has attacked the Ukrainian Embassy in Moscow. We should address this right now, probably not Parliament, but Parliament's leadership can now turn to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for immediate recalling the Ukrainian Ambassador to Moscow for consultations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u99	Thank you for the information. I think we're going to take operational action. Dear colleagues, there is an offer, let's still consider the issue, and there will be the possibility that the national MPs will come forward. Draft Decision on the appointment of Mr. Igorovich as Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine. Very short, please. 4463 this project. There's no objection, we'll consider it in a simplified way. Whether it's a personnel question at all and I don't think it's being discussed. We need to hear, there's a minister, head of the committee. Then let's get the minister ready to speak. The committee's head is out of place. Please comment on the draft decision and we will make a decision. I'd like my colleagues to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the government, under the signature of Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk, has proposed to chair the State Committee on Television and Radio. I have to say right now that because of the speed of our lives, we didn't hold committee meetings, but most of the committee members support this decision by the government. And our position is based on the fact that we are now in a state of military action not only on Ukraine's borders, but we are in a state of military action and information war, particularly with the Russian Federation and unfortunately with some of the district public utilities and other media and some of the private media that today, taking funds from the budget, are considered necessary to promote anti-Ukrainian values and promote the position of the Russian Federation. According to the Constitution and the current legislation, the procedure for the release and appointment of the heads of the district radio companies is carried out in accordance with the leadership of the State Committee on Television and Radio. That's why, despite the fact that we didn't have a broad discussion on the committee, and that's minus, we have to have a committee head, because I have a lot of references, for example, to activities in the East and the Southern heads of the district broadcasters who forgot that they live in Ukraine. That's why I think that Oleg Ltawiko, who today was the head of the Journalist Association of Ukraine and who was the head of the UNIAN agency at the best times when this was the most objective agency, can objectively and professionally address the issues facing the state information policy of Ukraine today. I would therefore like to support this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a need to listen to Nadwik, is he here? Please come up and let everyone look at you. Any questions for the candidate? There's a question. Ladies and gentlemen, let the People's Chamber of Writers give it a word, please ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u102	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Nastawayko! We will, of course, support you and your candidacy, and the Fatherland will vote. I'll tell you, I'll tell you, I'm very glad that you've been through this period of a terrible Yank's "city" in the position of head of the Journalists' Society, but we support you more calmly. I just want to ask you. The first thing you have to do is release Avrahov, who turned the First National Radio Channel into such a boring one-party. And I don't want to talk about it right now, because we're going to go to the D.A.'s office for that. And there's a request for you to return to the First Channel those patriotic real radio programs that Avrahov unscrupulously threw out of the air. I'm talking about my 20-minute program with Vladimir Yavorowski. Make sure that you do, and everything will be in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, is there any way to make a decision? I'd like to invite the deputies into the hall so that we can make a decision. I'm asking right after the support, I hope to invite Oleg Läwayko to the profile committee and set out the tasks he needs to perform. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to determine how to vote. There is a proposal to support the draft Decree (4463): the appointment of the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine. Please, honourable members of the people, determine how to vote. Please be supportive. [[12:01:28]] For 228 At the border, the decision is made. Welcome to Oleg Nastawayko's appointment. Dear colleagues! We have another problem before we deprive the national MPs of their status. This is a matter of local elections, so I'm looking, and there's an offer on my desk. Please, Mikola Tomenko, two words from the Churches so that we can support this decision. Because the elections are scheduled for May 25th, and we haven't determined, we haven't included the city of Cherkasy on that list. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I and my colleague Irina Herashchenko, and here are the national MPs who were elected from Cherkashina Victor Timoshenko, Mikhailo Floodsky and others to resolve the issue of re-launching local self-government in Cherkas. We voted in favour of the election of the Cherkas city head for the term. But unfortunately, and this is our committee's commission that we still have a rule in the law, that if we have to re-election a city council, we have to give it to the head of the district administration. This is absurd in terms of the idea of local self-government. Unfortunately, however, that was the norm, and the committee asked that we wait for the head of the district administration to present the relevant documents and vote that this day will be held on May 25, in Chercas, in addition to the election of the Cherkas City Council. So, all the documents we have in order for the district administration to be filed, we've registered them in the Supreme Council. And in line with Irina Heratchenko and Mikaly Tomenko's decision to appoint the next election of the Cherkas Town Council on May 25, 2014, we are asked to look into and ask for the support of the Churches to have legitimate local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this question, without a vote, is included in the agenda. I'm asking Ruslan Knazevitch from the profile committee, very briefly. And from the place that we should not waste time, and we shall make decisions. No discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! I can only confirm that the committee has really considered this issue and that it has been decided that we support this decision on a condition that a formal basis is respected, namely, that the head of the State Administration be addressed. Since such an appeal has come, we feel that all the requirements of the law have been fulfilled. And we have every reason today to vote on the right decision, and to appoint the next election of the Cherka City Council on May 25, 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u107	Legally, all standards are met? All of them. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the project that has been implemented and supported by the committee of profile, which Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna made. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is the number of Project 4467 on the appointment of the secondary election of the Cherkasa City Council (Cherkasa City District) on May 25, 2014. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support it by taking it as a whole. Please vote. Colleagues, please sit down. Peter Alexiovich, without you, we cannot make a decision. Please vote. Please turn on the " Rada" system. [[12:05:08]] For 253 votes. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 17, Fatherland 74, Impact 29, Economic Development 31, 31 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 37. Dear colleagues, can we ask questions about the termination of the powers of national deputies? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can! I, my honourable colleagues, remind you that at the last meeting, we have called upon all the national deputies who work in the government or work in other government offices, particularly the governors, to immediately identify themselves and write a statement or mandate, or (or, I emphasize) have left office in the government. We received statements from the national deputies about their credentials: Avakova Arsena Borisovich. We're going to be separate, so I take it, by the Rules? It requests that the term of office of a national deputy be suspended on the basis of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine in connection with the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. May I put it to a vote? People's deputies would like to know about the statement made by the people's deputy, Habakkuk. Please vote. [[12:06:41]] For 246 Decision taken. Next statement from Maxim Burbak. Also regarding the timely termination of the authority of the national MP. Can we vote in favour of the Burbak People's Deputy? Please. I'll remind you, he's appointed Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. Please vote. [[12:07:22]] For 245 Decision taken. The next application for permanent termination came from Denisov, who was appointed Minister of Social Policy, Ludmila Leontivny. On behalf of the People's Deputies of Dennis we can vote, Your Honor? We can vote. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote and support Ludmila Denisov's statement. Please vote. [[12:08:07]] For 238. Decision taken. The following statement came from Oleg Knaczyk, who also asked that his parliamentary powers be terminated in time, referring to the relevant article of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. No objection, dear colleagues? Can we put it to a vote? We can. Please support the statement made by the People's Deputy. Please identify yourself as Supreme Council. [[12:08:45]] For 246 Decision taken. The following statement by the national deputy Valentina Nastavajchenko, who also requests that his parliamentary authority be suspended in the short term. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine the Supreme Council by a vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:09:19]] For 242 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, an application has been made for the permanent suspension of the powers of the national MP in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution and Ukrainian legislation of Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia. Is there a question about that? No questions asked. I am asking you to support this motion for approval by voting. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:10:02]] For 245 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, an appropriate statement has been made regarding the permanent suspension of the authority of the national deputy of Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovic. We can vote. No objections? Please turn on the "Council" system and decide with the National MP. [[12:10:32]] For the 241 people's deputies. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, an application has been made for the permanent suspension of the authority of the national MP from the national deputy of Orphanyuk. No objection, dear colleagues? Attention? I'll put it to a vote, please. Oleg Orotyuk, I'm making it clear that we don't deprive another MP of authority. Dear colleagues, please make your decision by voting, please. [[12:11:17]] For 242. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us consult you on what matter. We have a call from the Party of the Regions, which, unfortunately, most of them are not present at all. — Numbers 4468, 4469. This is a decree establishing temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council to monitor investigations of particularly resonant criminal cases with the aim of preventing political repression and avoiding punishment by higher officials of the state who committed the crime. Dear colleagues! And a similar decision to establish a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the circumstances of the shooting of gunmen by protestors and law enforcement officers during mass protests. It seems to me that we should be interested, dear colleagues, not only in the sniper shooting, but in all the killings, the mass killings that took place in the face of power and the Ukrainian people in Kiev. Dear colleagues, let us consult, there is a problem. Dear colleagues, we have a question. The factions, unfortunately, did not all name the committees. We can ask this question one of the first during the next session or vote without names that we didn't in principle do. What are some of the suggestions, fellow believers? To the next meeting? Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. Colleagues, you know, I'm going to the Party of Regions, most of whose deputies don't go to the session room at all. What do they do? I have a question. I ask you to mention your principle position on the Rules when you asked the opposition to accept with regard to the interim commission of inquiry, saying, "Until they give us a name, we will not bet." Things have changed now. I am for there to be no political persecution in Ukraine! And the entire Supreme Council supports that. I'm here to see if we can conduct the investigation. And all the criminals who killed people were in prison! A hundred percent! But I say again, you don't have to make political pressure here. You have no reason for political pressure. So, your honor, let's do two pros, two opposites. That is, we are now voting or we are including in the next session so that all the names of the members of the committees, as required by the Rules, are in the order. Please, two for, two for. Sign up for the performance. From factions two to pros, two to negative. Please, the people's deputy of the lwakhs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u108	Please give the word to the national deputy Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u109	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u110	The "Supreme European Ukraine" faction believes that we must make decisions on these committees, after these commissions have been created, so that all criminals who have a bearing on the killings of civilians during the confrontation are punished and imprisoned. Our faction submitted its candidate. If this is an urgent matter, let's put the candidates on these committees today and vote. If we can move it, it's up to the initiators to say, let's pick up the candidates and vote next Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u111	Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give the next speech as the national deputy of Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, indeed many mistakes have been made in the previous authorities, and unfortunately we have consequences. And I think what was blocked by the commission of inquiry when they were initiated by the opposition is one of them. So let's not repeat a step by step the error of the predecessors, the previous authorities, and we will work as the new opposition now initiates and appeals to the new majority. We ask today to vote on the appropriate creation of the commission of inquiry and to give a certain deadline for representatives of other factions who have not yet been able to submit their candidates to submit them, and this can be done in the working order, and such a practice in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is. These questions are now very important, timely, they concern society and I am convinced that when the response of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is appropriate, we will be able to give answers to all our citizens regardless of who is to blame and where he is. We must bring the guilty to justice, find them, and this must be a united process. And I am absolutely convinced that when people hear the desire to understand these facts objectively, they will respect the higher legislature, and this will be another example of what we can do together, hear and see each other. These questions are important. They care about society, and we need to give them an answer. Let us vote on these issues today as initiators of the formation of these commissions of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'm dusting, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u115	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u116	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, of course, we should consider creating many temporary commissions of inquiry. Only those temporary commissions of inquiry would be of proper benefit and only would be the result. I would like to remind you that not so long ago, when we created, we initiated very many temporary commissions of inquiry, including the political persecution that is being said today, on other issues of abuse of power. I want to remind you of how then the authorities, particularly the Party of Regions and Communists, ignored the meetings of those temporary commissions, tossed those meetings, not going to those meetings, and, accordingly, destroying the quorum at those meetings. But we are of course quite different political forces that are now in power. And we are interested in the whole truth about the work of both the then authority and the present authority, about all the abuses, about all those snipers, about all those who were giving instructions to kill people, so that this truth is known to Ukrainian society. As a result, we will never stop the creation of such temporary commissions of inquiry. Our faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will always delegate our representatives to work on those committees if necessary. And I think together we're going to invite here to the rostrum and the Minister of Internal Affairs to report on the course of the investigation, and the Attorney General to provide information on how the investigation is conducted, the Chief Security Service and other heads of state. We need public policy and we don't need to blackmail us here right now, which we say is stopping the creation of similar commissions. We go, we work and we give information publicly to the people, but we don't interrupt such meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kirilenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u118	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Of course, the new authorities should not or would not repeat mistakes, especially crimes, past authorities. At the same time, we shouldn't put everything on our heads. For another week or two we'll have to work here, under the insistence of the Party of Regions, to repent of what has been done by their Janukovich. So I think neither the tactics nor the strategy are wrong. So more good investigation committees that work. First. The crimes of the Yanukovic regime are the main investigation commission. The second is about the illegal acquisition of property during the Janukovic regime. This is the second commission of inquiry. And the third, I think, is the most important investigative commission, which will clearly guide the border, where a political prisoner who is persecuted for dissent, and where a political or state actor who has contributed with his actions and appeals, and now directly participates in the activities of separatists. These are different things: dissension and support for separatism. So I have another suggestion to make. Finally, let us consider the Law banning the Communist Party. [[Applause]] They sit and, sorry, do not vote stupidly for any issue related to the fight against separatism. Neither the mobilisation nor the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Crimea, nor the unconstitutional referendum -- all of this is ignored by the Company. Straight and straight, the fifth column. Therefore, we must establish their responsibility and vote on the law in the first instance. Of course, those in the past regime should not be persecuted by new authorities. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u119	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u120	Half a second. But we have to prove that these are really political views, not support for money from separatists, and even organizing actions like this is happening in some of the southeast areas. So let's talk about all of these Regional Party proposals and tomorrow we'll take a decision on all of the Commissions. But not only those who are urged by opposition but also those who are in need of the people require a nation and are obliged to create a new authority. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u121	Thank you. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction. And I'm going to give the floor to General Moskal, the National MP, to inform him about the work of a commission that actually deals with the same issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u122	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, we find it strange to have local centers of two political forces that directly supported the disengagement of Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea territory, and they are now starting to put certain ultimatums here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, the impact faction, and I think that the whole society, interested in objective investigation, is not just the work of so-called snipers. And all that happened in the country during that three - month period was the killing of all people regardless of the date, regardless of who, where, which side of the barricade was and who gave the criminal orders. Surely, then, such a commission of inquiry may take place. The only thing is, Alexander Valentine's Day, and we're ready to give the name of the national deputy from the strike faction to give us time to contribute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u124	We've been given time by the faction to name our candidacy on both committees. And we're willing, in principle, to talk later, really talk about what we need to do by investigating the victims, investigating the killings of people during the events in Maidan, and giving the public an answer to that question as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u125	Thank you. National Deputy Hennaday Moscal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, let's go back a little bit. Following the events of January 30, the Supreme Council voted in favour of the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission on illegal activities by law enforcement agencies. It went there: 30 November, 1 December, 11 December, 10 January, under the Shrine Rived and the Shrine Reiveddell, 19-23. January on Gruszewski Street and February 20-24 on the Institute and in Maidan, including snipers, Berkut, Alpha, Falcon, everyone involved. The only question there, the request to Freedom, was Mr. Nehnitzki, he went to the Attorney General, give him a replacement. And the Party of the Regions, don't create a commission on the committee, because your people you've delegated don't go. I've got Mrs. Olena Bondarenko, and I haven't seen her in the hall since the fall of the Yanukovitch regime and I haven't seen her on the board. Reformat people so that we have a quorum, because without you there will be no quorum, because then you had a majority as a Party of Regions. So today the commission is working, and the commission has worked ten volumes. If there's the good will of the Speaker of Parliament and the Hall, I'll be ready to inform you, starting on November 30th, and ending with the bloody events at the Maidan on February 20-24th this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's really consult. First of all, I was given draft regulations on the establishment of these committees, which I understand did not pass the Rules of Procedure, on the one hand. On the other hand, we can't vote for them, I'll explain why. Because not only are there no names of members of the commission, there is no name of either head or first deputy head. How can you vote for a commission that has no head, no deputy, and so forth. It's technically impossible. The same second decision. As for the shooting commission, my colleagues, I agree with the commission's head, Hennady Hennadiovich Moskal, because it's actually the subject of another commission's investigation. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking the regulatory committee to gather immediately to consider these issues. I'm asking the National Deputies to decide on the participation of these committees, on the head of the commission, on the deputy, because when it's the head and deputy of one faction, here the proportions change, and so on. And we're going to ask this question in case the commission by a decision that is proposed to be formed (No. 4468) does not go beyond the commission headed by Hennadi Moskal. Because from the same point of view, the two commissions of the Supreme Council should not create. Therefore, honourable colleagues are instructed by the Regulatory Committee to consider the order of the day of our next meeting. Now, dear fellows, I'd like to consult with you. The situation in the country is very tense. On schedule, we have to work on committees this week, and the next Tuesday is just a meeting. Committees really matter, why? It will now be considered so that the budget committee doesn't ask questions, and the theme related to the budget sequester is a serious problem. The topic relates to laws that form part of an anti-crisis package from the Cabinet of Ministers regarding both procurement procedures and so forth. This is also true of several laws that need to be adopted to provide for the Armed Forces, including procurement, and so forth. Therefore, respectable colleagues should, in fact, work on committees. On the other hand, the situation in the country is that we're going to have to meet at any time for the night. That's why I'm asking, dear colleagues, to join the committee on Tuesday now, but no one to leave Kiev. Everyone works here, and if necessary, I will gather during the time of the Supreme Council meeting, which will make the decisions that the Ukrainian people insist on to protect our country. Thanks for the job. Good-bye. Tomorrow at the 11th faction leaders, members of the MPs, please contact the Head of the Supreme Council.
