ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. I'd like you to include the RRR Council and the national deputies to sign up for the evening session. [[16:10:46]] A total of 257 national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. And in the daytime we have our first reading, Bill No. 4986, 4986-1. The draft Law on State Control in the Safety and Quality of Food and Feed, Animal Welfare. Project of the People's Deputy Sold. Reportedly, the minister of agrarian politics and food of Schweik and the national deputy sold. Who's going to report? Sulawesi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u2	Oh, is there such an offer? Please, there's been a proposal by the national MPs, with a reduced procedure. Anyone who wishes for such a procedure, please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[16:12:11]] For 106 The decision is not approved. Please, full procedure, please, Minister. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u3	Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Act on State control in the area of security and quality of food and feed, animal welfare developed for the purpose of harmonising Ukrainian legislation with EU legislation, and according to the Ministry of Justice's conclusion, the draft law on regulation is one of the priority areas for adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. The draft law was registered in the Supreme Council on October 14, 2013, as number 3424. However, since he was not considered in the Supreme Council, he was recalled in accordance with article 105 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and paragraph 121 of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Rules in connection with the change in the composition of the government. The draft legislation aligns Ukraine's legislation with EU regulations Nos 8542004, 8822004, 6692009, EU Council Directive No 9778EU, which in turn will allow a further step to be taken in resolving the issue of the supply of Ukrainian producers to the market in EU countries and markets in other countries, since the European State Control System is generally recognised and accepted. The bill deals with the development and implementation of a long-term national control plan, detailed issues of physical checks of products and reasons for reducing their frequency. General principles are laid down for the State’s control of fresh meat, the production and placing on the market of live double - edged mussels, live turtles, live intestines of empty and live marine red mussels, State control of fish and fish products, as well as raw milk and dairy products. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law will allow a further step to be taken in resolving the issue of the supply of Ukrainian producers to the EU market and the recognition of the equivalent of the animal health measures in our country to the European Union, and will also contribute to the conclusion of the EU-Ukraine Free Trade Zone Agreement, the creation of a sufficient level of confidence in Ukraine by the European Union and closer cooperation and, as a result, the facilitation of the process of bringing Ukraine's legislation closer to European Union legislation. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u4	Thank you. To my co-report, I invite the People's Deputy Sold to Oxana Petrovna. They'll all be out in a minute. You'll ask all the questions. Yes, it is. Please, Oksana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, the bill we are currently discussing is 4986-1. It is one of the projects that the Ukrainian business and the Ukrainian economy need to be integrated into the European economic system. But it is very much related to Bill 4179a. I would very much like to ask the chairman to put to the vote today and to consider the 4179a bill, which should, in principle, be considered in this bill, which is now under discussion. What is the difference between the bills proposed by the government and those proposed by the copyright team in completely different fields and different experts? What difference does it make? In fact, both of them and our project were prepared to implement the European Union and to join the terms of the Association Agreement. But this project, which I'm proposing as an alternative, is the first time in the history of Ukraine that it's requiring a controlling authority, that it's putting out claims and standards that future controllers should be able to control and test the production of food, goods and feed. In addition, our bill, it refers not only to food and animal health control but also to food that meets the rules of the EU Convention on the Full Cycle, to monitoring the full cycle of food production. Similarly, our bill, an alternative bill, provides for what makes it possible to argue in court, to argue in arbitration with the owner, the market operator, or the wrongfulness of the application of sanctions, firstly, the possibility of an accusation, secondly, the possibility and the duty to remove two samples at the same time. It is suggested that two samples will be taken, one sample will be sent for analysis on behalf of the controlling authority, another sample will remain with the operator in case it disagrees with the results that will be presented by the controlling authority. In addition, we establish the possibility of alternative control and introduce mandatory tests exclusively in tested laboratories. In addition, we propose in our bill to legalize current veterinary doctors who work with operators but are not in any way linked to the control system today. Our bill, it's closer to European standards, it allows us to select and control a laboratory, and it allows us to protect the operator from the results and avoid the corruption that can be achieved in carrying out control. Therefore, I ask all my fellow Members to support an alternative bill that does not conflict with the government, but which complements and develops it closer to the European convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u6	Stay, please. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for a faction question, please. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Donya, "North European Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Grigory the Muggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u8	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u9	I have a question like that. The lab, which will determine the quality, what form of ownership will it have?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u10	We don't limit the form of property. We set out the requirements that exist in the European Union for the quality of laboratory research. If the laboratory is to have the necessary European conventions for the analysis of which it does not matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u11	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u12	Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u13	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u14	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear Mrs. Oksano, I would like you to emphasize once again the relationship, almost inextricably linked to Bill 4179a. I think it's very important for the MPs to understand that the control project won't work at all unless the 4179a bill is passed, in fact, on the subject of food regulation, and so on, quality, safety and so on. These are two interconnected laws, and therefore it is very important that we, in fact, demand that we put to the vote the law that is the first, and that control is actually the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u15	I thank Kseniya Mikhailny very much when I started reporting the project, and that's exactly what I was talking about. And I went to the chairman, and I think that Mr. Kosulinsky would be able to put in a 4179a project after this bill so that we could look at it the same way and be able to carry out this decision in a comprehensive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u16	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Philippenck, the "Economic Development of Ukraine" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u17	Thank you. Group "Economic Development" Filipenko, Poltavščina. In fact, everyone, I understand, is asking the same question, how can we deal with control issues until we have set the standards that we want to apply to this subject? I agree that we really should all be looking at it in the complex. Your position on Bills 4987 and 4987 with badge one is with regard to the identification of animals? As well as legislation on food safety. In my opinion, they too should be adopted at first, and later we should adopt this law in a second reading. Can I have your position, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u18	Thank you for asking. We're now looking at the draft in the first reading. And I am now addressing all the deputies to support this project in the first reading. For the second reading, we will have to go out when the previous two, both about the identification of animals and about the safety of food products, will be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u19	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Blawaki, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u20	Please give the word to Peace Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u21	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u22	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Given the importance of these bills for Ukraine, for the agro-industry complex and really that this is one step towards us entering Europe and producing common rules for business, "Freedom," taking into account this, will vote in favour of both bills after they are put to the vote, and we will vote. Mrs. Oksana, I have a question for you. How will you and the strike faction support the government, or will they vote only for their own? Because it's really, really important that we don't cool down the hall and fail to fail this bill at all, which is very important to us. Thank you, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u23	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich. On the faction, we discussed the matter and decided to support the decision of the committee of profile that would be proposed by the committee head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u24	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you, Mrs. Oksana, please sit down. I invite the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations of Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u25	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues, national MPs! First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the Governing Body and members of the Conciliation Council yesterday for agreeing to include in the agenda for the consideration of Bill 4179a. And thank you for voting today and putting it into the agenda. And I'd like to support the people's deputies and rapporteurs and the authors of these two very important bills, so that we can now consider the 4179a bill, which is really going to go first, his committee has considered and consider, they go along with Bills 4986 and 4986-1. Now, in order of course, how they were reported by the authors. Agrarian politics and food Minister Igor Aleksandrovitch reported on Bills 4986 and 4986-1. The Committee of the Supreme Council, this bill, these two bills have been discussed in quite detail at its meeting. They aim to determine the legal and organizational principles of State control in the field of food quality and safety, as well as food, including by-products of animal origin that are not intended for human consumption, and include basic tasks and principles. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus proposes that the results of the first reading be sent for further work. The committee, having considered in detail, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on State Control for the purpose of verifying compliance with the legislation on the safety and quality of food and feed, animal health and welfare (registration No. 4986-1), submitted by the Ukrainian People’s Chamber of Commerce on the basis of the first reading. Thank you. Can I report 4971a?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u26	Now, if you don't mind, I'll ask you a question. Please sign in on the question before. No questions? Then, with respect to the proposals that have already been made in the session room, the committee's decision, we can go over to the committee, immediately allow the committee head to discuss a bill (4179a) that goes hand in hand with these two committees. Okay? Then I ask the committee head to begin this bill immediately and present the bill (4179a), please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the honourable presiding officer! On July 1, the Supreme Council Committee on agar policy and land relations considered a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on food (registration number 4179a) introduced by the people’s deputies. Food security is one of the crucial components of the economic security of every nation and is determined by the country’s ability to effectively control the production and import of safe and quality food on the world’s principles. The safety and quality of food has become a priority for governments in all countries — food producers, their sellers, and consumers. For everyone today, it is quite clear that the safer food, the less they give out in pharmacies and vice versa. This is why in the European Union there are effective general regulatory and legal acts, a broad list of specific requirements and standards aimed at ensuring food safety. Ukraine's successful integration into world economic co-operation is not possible without the harmonization of our legislation and our standards. Therefore, the purpose of the draft law is to improve terminology to ensure harmonization, clarify provisions on types of offences and penalties, create a single control body for all food products, abolish permits that do not exist in the European Union, introduce European principles for the regulation of genetically modified products, set detailed requirements for State food control procedures in the Ukraine market and import products according to European practices, establish a mechanism for the self-regulation of market operators based on the general requirements of food hygiene legislation. The draft law meets the requirements of European legislation in the area of food safety, the objectives of European integration. I would also like to report the following to the National Deputies. What happened yesterday in the committee was a meeting with a representative, the head of the IFC project, Eugene Osmokesk, from the World Bank, whose main issue was, and we discussed that it was the adoption of the bill (registration number 4179a) that was defined as one of the key conditions for Ukraine's granting in August the next tranche of the World Bank's permanent development loan of $750 million. So this position, I would like each of the national MPs to take into account how they should vote and support the committee's decision, and to support the authors of this beautiful and necessary bill. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on food products to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u28	People's deputies would like to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please turn on the microphone, People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I'm asking you to support the committee head's proposal. Because this bill is actually awaiting many manufacturers today, thousands of agricultural producers and food products. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the co-authors who have prepared this bill. Because he was being prepared by many national deputies who are now in the hall. This bill was prepared by experts from various business associations. This bill and experts from the EU, the World Bank, the International Financial Corporation were preparing. And I would now like to say that before this bill is concluded by the European Union delegation on its support. What's important to say is what's in this project is the simplification of any permit documents, the elimination of all corruption schemes that are exclusively in Ukraine today. Implementation of the HACCP system by cancelling a number of corruption mechanisms that exist today. It's the only one that's created.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u30	Please, thank you. Are you done? If possible, let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u31	Is there a trace from rope to table and? What's very important is that consumer protection is strengthened by different mechanisms. But really, after the adoption and implementation of this law, we can guarantee that Ukrainian food products will meet the food requirements of European standards. So I ask you to support everyone, to vote on this whole bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u32	Thank you. Well, I think it's a rhetorical question. Will you have the answer, Mr. Head of the Committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u33	Of course. In her thanks, Mrs. Oksana forgot to mention 29 members of the Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Politics, land relations, which were mutually supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u34	Let's not praise each other. I'm going to ask you to turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Lapinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u35	Thank you. Xeni Lapina, Party for Ukraine, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues. For the time being, we need to adopt this law. I'll remind you. First, without this law, our food producers, unfortunately, cannot benefit from the open market of the European Union for us today. It is a market with high purchasing power, but it is these quality barriers that control the quality and safety of our manufacturer. So our number one task is to support the committee's proposal, to put it on the ground as a whole, so that we can finally take this barrier down. I'll remind you. Today, Russia has closed down all Russian markets for our dairy industry, the meat industry. Our producers are able to export to the EU, only we have to make these opportunities available on a regular basis. That's why it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u36	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u37	I point out that this is just our duty. And I'm asking you to have a signal vote first so we don't crash this law if there's not enough people in the room right now. It's very important if we collapse it, in fact, we're cutting off the European perspective. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u38	Thank you. Please. Please answer. Gregory, Mr. Gregory, Gregory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u39	There's a short answer. I want to go back to all the people's deputies to support this because it really opens up markets for our producers, and we have enough production in Ukraine, and we need it. Plus, we're going to help harmonize all of our standards with the European Union and the financial assistance of the World Bank that I mentioned, so we don't have to lose $750 million here. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u40	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Catherinechuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u41	Thank you. Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Well, of course, the need to adopt this bill in two readings today is a very important thing that we will do by putting into practice the signed Association Agreement. Unfortunately, it has not yet been ratified, but we hope that such a decision will be made on Thursday. And I think I've benefited from a completely different system of food security and other products that will enable us to conquer our markets in the European market. And this is very important in connection with what is happening now with our former partners in the Russian Federation. I'd like to ask you a question, including Mr. Secretary. How does the Ministry accept the adoption of these two bills, and what budgetary burden will be due to the adoption of these new standards of control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u42	Thank you for asking. The Ministry's backing up. And I wanted to thank the Supreme Council for the fact that the 4179 and other laws that are now included in the agenda. I wanted to support the people's deputies -- the sale, the Lapin, the head of the committee that supported these bills. Today's our day. I would like to pay special attention and speak two words, not in the minister's language. Today, exports of our products to the Russian Federation have decreased by more than 35 percent. It's actually now stopped businesses that have previously supplied the products of our dairy producers, more than 80 percent of them to a private producer -- that's what used to be exported to the Russian Federation. Without these bills, we can't involve the European Union inspection today, and they won't be able to work out technical regulations to ensure that our manufacturer's production finds an adequate replacement for the potential that was stored in the Russian Federation until today. This is the way to Europe today for our production. With regard to budgetary stress, this time work is being done within the limits of the expenditure that is earmarked for the national veterinary health service. This is a series of grants from the European Union and these are the costs of our producers, who are very much looking forward to today's Parliament of these very, without exaggeration, irrefutable decisions of the Ukrainian, Ukrainian authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u43	Thank you. Question time's up. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. Please. Welcome to the presentation, People's Deputy Philippeenko of the "Economic Development" faction. Excuse me, Vitalia Calla, corner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u44	Thank you, colleagues. I think it's very important to support these two bills that we talked about today. And I also want to support the committee head that we actually had a hard job. In the matter of control, we really went back to basic principles. And today we have this basic document. I mean, we're, uh, as an example, I guess. What if we have a similar experience in Georgia when Georgian wine, water, were banned in the Russian Federation? And accordingly they had to go through the path of standardizing all their products into international standards, European standards. And accordingly, in a fairly short period of time, they restored their positions from the point of view of circulation and implementation. It was also not mentioned here today what innovations are, which are anticorruption. Specifically, these bills cancel the State's approval of the list of food products for which GMO content is controlled and the list of appropriate methods, detection and identification of GMOs. Everyone who works in the market knows that it was such a wide gap for corruption when, directly, only officials determined where the GMO is, where it's not there, what methods to do it. And this is of course very difficult, because these are high-tech processes. In this bill, we get rid of it. That's why I'm talking to the whole room. Maybe today we're going to gather these voices with tension, but they're very necessary, and today, as we've shown, this bill is very important, it's a common position for both the ministries and the committee and the deputies. And I think it's just a demonstration that this is a really necessary bill that will produce good results for Ukraine, especially in the military conditions with the Russian Federation that we're in. I would like to thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u45	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, the People's Deputy of Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u46	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill is actually one of ten bills that actually integrate Ukraine. Unfortunately, we don't have a treaty to ratify yet, but we already have to take real and concrete steps so that our business is already able to work in a free trade zone. Because, as you know, the European Union has unilaterally opened its market in free trade. Yet our manufacturers, unfortunately, have not yet been able to take advantage of many opportunities. We owe them these reforms. And we're actually doing this reform right now, which we had to do five or six years ago. What I would like to pay special attention to as one of the coauthors of this law. We are introducing regulation in general, the practice of establishing product safety requirements in Europe, into EU Regulation 854 since 2004. What is this practice? We're self-regulation of market operators and we're aligning them with the regulatory activity of the state. The state sets general requirements for the hygiene of food products, and already self - regulation organizations of market operators detail these requirements and analyze them. This was not what was unfortunately done in the previous edition of the Law on the Quality and Safety of Food, although such attempts were of their own time. But then the regulators were not ready. And I welcome today's government and the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, that they are ready today for such modern actions, for the modern regulatory mechanisms that operate in Europe, they demonstrate that they have already grown to European level. And now to European level, our producers will be ready to grow up, creating their own self-regulation organizations. By the way, it makes the control process much easier, and it eliminates a lot of corruption, which unfortunately still happens, and in fact, what our manufacturers and market operators are complaining about. That's why, in my opinion, getting caught on the ground and in general is our job. However, I would very much ask the chairman first to make a signal vote in order not to take any chances with this law and not to overthrow it. It's urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u47	Welcome to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. He hands over the right of his speech to the national deputy Sabiye. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u48	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will clearly and unanimously support the adoption of these two bills as a basis and as a whole. We clearly understand that adopting these bills, increasing the quality standards of our products will not only allow us to replace the export power that we have lost through intervention, through Russia's aggression, it will enable us to increase our exports of agricultural products, food and not just to the European Union, it will allow us to sell our products around the world. This will definitely help us increase the purchase price of raw material, which is, first of all, milk. We should all remember that more than 70 percent of milk is produced by individual agricultural producers, in fact by citizens. The price rise itself will enable not only the country’s food security to be addressed, but also the country’s social problems. Because dairy requires a lot of labor, a lot of labor. A corresponding increase in purchase prices, which will be clear when we can sell our products more for export, ensure the work of our peasants, ensure the profitability of our peasant farms. People will be more comfortable buying more cows, keeping more cows than going somewhere to earn money, that will give them the opportunity to rebuild our villages, save our villages. So we urge everyone to vote unanimously in favour of these two bills -- this will be only part of those bills that we have to support in order to fully revive our agriculture and preserve our village. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u49	From the Economic Development Group, National MP Filipenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u50	Thank you. Economic Development Group, Vladimir Filipenko, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, venerable bodies and radio listeners! Indeed, we have all come to the conclusion now that without first adopting laws that set requirements for the quality of food, for the quality of feed, we cannot adopt the Control Act to comply with such requirements. Because we can't find a method, if we have an object that we want to adjust, we don't have a social relationship that's not actually settled, so it's absolutely right that we put 4179a together to vote. And I'm very confident that the MPs, both in the signal vote and in the vote on the basis, and in general, support this bill as they unanimously supported its committee members, which was discussed during the discussion that we had with the authors. Now, in terms of the bill that was first considered, it's a bill that deals with control, there's two of them, there's 4986 and there's 4981-1. Of course, both laws deserve attention. The decision of the committee and the same decision of our parliamentary group is that it is necessary to support the parliamentary bill, which is 4986 with a single badge, because it fully regulates the issue of control and to it, as a result of these changes, we will most fully ensure that all mechanisms are implemented to control both the safety of food and food quality. I'm just going to pause literally on a few remarks that we can certainly remove between the first and the second readings if the MP's bill is adopted. First of all, we need to identify the body responsible. Since the bill states that the competent authority is the central executive body that ensures the implementation of State policy in the areas of food and nutrition, animal health and welfare. The name of the body, it is not contained in any act. Maybe it's "The TreeFit Service" of Ukraine? But once again, it doesn't fully reflect the functions that have to be put on this organ, so we have to work on it. Another issue is article 9 of the law, which deals with the training and retraining of professionals who will be able to exercise professional control. For example, it takes money from the budget. Although we know that, at the moment, whether these costs can be compensated is not known. All of this can be complete between the first and the second readings. The only way we're going to be able to vote on this bill of control in general is when the Animal Identification Act, which is now on the second reading, is adopted. So thank you, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Are there still speakers, National MPs? Do you have a wish for a closing word? Please include the Cabinet of Ministers microphone in the bed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u52	I would like to reiterate the importance of these bills in view of the trade, including the war waged by the Russian Federation. That quality system that we can now implement and have as a reality is accepted in over a hundred countries of the world. It's not just trade with the European Union, it's trade with over a hundred countries in the world that can accept our products. Moreover, I would like to urge you once again to support these bills, because because of their failure to approve Ukraine cannot accept three inspections of the European Union – milk, beef and pork. Immediately after the adoption of these laws we will invite, and the EU inspectors are ready to come to us in order to finish their work earlier in the strictest time. This job today guarantees the output of the Ukrainian manufacturer, and I have almost eight o'clock a.m. every morning, exporters who have announced this morning that the Russian Federation will shut down two of our manufacturers. Today we are looking for new markets that can be opened through the work of parliament and government. Those warnings that we have before Bill 4179, we will be able to talk pragmaticly on the profile committee with the drafters of the bill and make a negotiated consensus decision. Please support and give our manufacturer the opportunity to trade in over a hundred countries around the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u53	Thank you. I'll ask the secretariat to announce, invite the national deputies to the session room. Please, everyone, sit in the workplace because we are about to begin voting with you, to be determined by published bills, by the very important bills that you've heard, we have all the laws that matter. And here, I don't know, there's still a spectrum that we can reach that where motivation -- exports of products, production of products, protection for which our consumers, in view of who wants to achieve what they want, have seen in this bill the link that they most profess. So I'm asking the people's deputies right now to take the opportunity to be in their jobs. At the proposal put forward by the drafters, we will try first to see what kind of rating vote we have. I am voting on a bill (registration number 4179a) to amend some Ukrainian legislation on food. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[16:52:29]] For 215 The factions, please. Parenthood – 64, Party of Regions – 1, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 36, Economic Development – 25, Freedom – 34, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, Peace and Stability – 1, Company – 0, non-fractional – 28. I can see that a few of the national MPs haven't been able to make it, they're still coming in. Please turn on the peace microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u54	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich! Please give the team to the people’s deputies who are now interviewing in the towers to get people into the hall because the discussion was long enough and the people were on the run. But these bills are really important. And again, judging by how much it didn't vote, I emphasize, we didn't vote, from coalition groups, first of all, we have votes. Now let's all come in here and vote. According to people, there is, in the mood, this desire to put it into the bill remains. Ruslan Volodymyrovich, please re-vote and then vote on the mutate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, let's proceed with the signal vote on those bills that we have already discussed. So I'm voting on the bill (registration number 4986) on State control in the area of food and nutrition security and quality, animal welfare. People's deputies, please vote. [[16:54:32]] For 213 The decision is not approved. And we're also putting the next bill to a vote. Registration number 4986-1. People's deputies, please vote. Signal vote. [[16:55:00]] For 217 Well, unfortunately, the honourable national MPs, none of the bills that we've discussed today has the required number of votes. What are some suggestions? I, if I may, would you please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u56	Honourable national MPs, taking into account the particular importance of these bills, a series of warnings that have the legal authority created by the working groups in the Minagropolitics, the composition of the drafters of the bill. And once again, I stress the importance of this bill. Dear Mr. Ruslan Volodymyrovich, I ask you to postpone the adoption of the decisions on the draft bill for the fourth time and not allow these bills to fail, because this is going to be, well, a very big blow to our manufacturer and the potential of Ukraine as a whole. Please put it down for Thursday and convince the other national deputies to support it in the first reading, then to work on a reduced procedure, to approve it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is clear. I think we're going to support this by taking into account the extraordinary urgency and necessity of these bills. We will consider them as we have considered, but we have not led them to the vote. We ask that they be considered and voted on the next sessional day or Thursday. I think there's no objection. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. For your consideration, the draft Law (Registration No. 4075a) amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property (primary) is proposed. I'm sorry, I jumped, I'm sorry. Registration number 4055a and 4055a-1 is a draft law on animal by-products not intended for human consumption. How will we view it? Short cut? I'm betting on your consideration of the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[16:57:33]] For 193 Decision approved. To report on this issue, I invite the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Switzerland, Igor Aleksandrovitch. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u58	Dear National Deputies! I wanted to thank you for the support that we see today in our 4055a bill. The draft Law on by-products of animal origin that are not intended for human consumption is designed to ensure the harmonization of domestic legislation to the requirements of international legislation, the fulfilment of mandatory conditions for obtaining a permit for the export of pig and beef to the market of the European Union. The draft law is part of the area of health and life of people, animals and plants, environment and competition rules, which, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation, are among the priority areas in which the legislation of Ukraine is adapted to European Union legislation. The project proposes to identify organizational and legal principles for the activities of natural and legal persons involved in the formation, collection, transportation, storage, processing, processing, disposal and disposal of nonhuman animal by-products. Regulation of relations between them and relevant authorities, establishing animal health requirements aimed at reducing the risks to human and animal health, by-products of animal origin, to harmonise domestic legislation to the requirements of international standards. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law will reduce the risks of the spread of particularly dangerous diseases, ensure the treatment of animal by-products in accordance with international standards and, as a result, minimize barriers to the export of animal products to the European Union and other countries of the world, increase the competitiveness of domestic animal products. Please support the proposed draft Ukrainian Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u59	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u60	Thank you, Reverend Ruslan Volodymyrovich. Honorable National MPs. The Supreme Council Committee considered the bill on by-products of animal origin that are not intended for human consumption, registration number 4055a and 4055a-1, introduced by the National Deputies, as an alternative to organizational and legal principles of activity related to the formation, collection, transport, storage, processing, processing, disposal and removal of animal by-products that are not intended or recognised as unfit for human consumption. And they are defined by government authorities and their powers in the relevant sphere, by-product categories depending on the degree of risk to health. At the end of the day, there are corresponding changes in the side effects. The main purpose of the draft law is to define the basic principles of priorities and the key tasks of establishing a balanced public policy in the field of animal by-products, and to identify basic requirements for reducing risks to human and animal health. Thus, the adoption of one of these bills will contribute to the creation of an effective system for dealing with animal by-products, the strengthening of state control over their preservation, and the provision of intermittent well-being in the country, which prevents the spread of infectious diseases. During the committee’s discussion of the bill, one of the authors of the alternative project, Sergey Petrovich Labazük, the first deputy chairman of the committee, was called off the bill and coauthors agreed to merge the rules with the government bill. Thus, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on animal by-products not intended for human consumption (Registration No. 4055) introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u61	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u62	introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who reported to the Minister of Agrarian Politics, the land relations of Switzerland, Igor Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u63	Thank you. I'd like the factions to sign "two" in, "two" in, against. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Kaida, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u64	Please give the word to Alexander the Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u65	Please turn on the mic to Mirna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u66	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, we are now on a very difficult road with you, we are trying to harmonise our, sorry for the word "save" legislation with world and European norms. And it's very important for us not to make mistakes on this path. For example, I am very grateful to Mr. Labazük for his understanding and for the position he took in recalling his bill, which is absolutely correct. And we have to make it clear that all that we're not going to do right now is just hit our producers right now. Because what these bills are proposing, it's not just the wishes of individual national MPs or government, it's the fruits of working groups. The fruit of all the experts and works that are constantly trying to improve our legislation. And this is exactly the example of how the ministries are supposed to work in a new way right now. Because I know how hard it is to have a discussion. And it's really not for the branch created by the working groups. And these are really working groups that make proposals, and where everything is trying to be harmonised, taking into account all the components, not just the side of business or not just the side of public organizations. This is exactly the kind of optimism that our country requires. And as an example, if we successfully support these bills, by example, I hope that we will show not only the Ukrainian community, but also the world that we are ready and want to integrate into the world structure. That's why we need to be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u67	Thank you. Please turn on John Kirilenko's microphone, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u68	Dear colleagues! I refer to the hall with such words. Friends, in order to harmonise standards, bring our legislation into line with the requirements of the European Union in order to trade on an equal footing, I'm not afraid to say that 80 percent of these changes will apply to the production of the agro-industry complex. Because it's not the most difficult thing to do, it's the phytosanitary restrictions and so on and so forth. So we're going to have to do a lot of work in this direction. Friends, the agrarian laws of the hall were always united. I request that this law be put to the vote and voted today, my friends, not put in a long box. And once again, to harmonise the legislation we will need in connection with the free trade zone with the European Union, 80 percent will have to be in the agricultural area. Please, my friends, back up. There's no warning. Let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u69	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Kulinich, Economic Development. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u70	Oleg Kulinic, Economic Development Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, I don't mind this bill. I support him in every way as a person who worked for a long time in the agricultural sector. But what are we talking about? And I have a question specific to the Minister of Agrarian Politics. The government, how much do I know, is passing bills on Thursday that plan to abolish the simplified VAT system that we have in agriculture, and not even fixed?? Tax. If that happens, it's a disaster to agriculture at all. Then there will be no need to talk about animal life, food, or anything. So, what exactly is your answer to my question, what is the position of the government and your position as minister? If that happens, what do you think? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u71	Unfortunately, we now have a reduced procedure, it does not provide questions and answers to the minister. If possible, then in private, please approach the minister personally, and he will give you the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u72	No, it's an important question. Please give the floor to the minister, let him explain his position. Give your word to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u73	I hope you can all read the Rules. There's a procedure you voted for. Of course, we may ask the minister, but this is a completely different conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u74	It's the same conversation, it's agriculture, it's a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u75	You're speaking on behalf of the group. If you'll excuse me, please, you're doing the bill. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u76	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to allow the Minister of Agrarian Policy to give an explanation so that he can state his position on what the government is bringing in on Thursday. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u77	So you think the minister for the entire Cabinet of Ministers should answer to you now, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u78	No, it's not. For your field. Your own opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u79	We're currently discussing a bill, reminding you, registration number 4055a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u80	I understand. But they are linked.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u81	Thank you. If you don't have more than your faction of such questions, I hope we go straight to the vote. Thank you. Dear national MPs, are they still willing to speak? Yes. Please, you didn't sign in from the strike faction, please. Corner, please. Please include the People's Deputy Kutov. The microphone's on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy of Kutov, the Strike faction. I wanted to turn this law over for a few moments. Actually, it's very short. And what are we talking about here? That the sending standards that existed before, or central authorities, determine how the disposal is done, where it is done and given, they have always created a mix around the issue. Today, the law provides definitions and forms and methods of doing so. So, first of all, he's greatly simplifying this procedure. Secondly, those mechanisms that are being set up are absolutely transparent and what the vast majority of reporters have said today, they understand the Western world, and they give a clear answer as to how, how and what is directly utilization. Well, and it's also important to pay attention to the fact that, as in the previous norm, and we've been paying attention to it so that it doesn't happen, the disposal in Ukraine is done only through wastes originating in Ukraine, so there will be no storage of foreign products in Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. What are some suggestions? We have a committee decision. Signal? Please inform the people's deputies that we are about to proceed to the vote. I'm betting on a bill (registration number 4055a) on animal by-products not intended for human consumption. People's deputies, please vote. [[17:11:23]] For-198 Let me show you through the factions. Parenthood – 65, Party of Regions – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 34, Economic Development – 23, Freedom – 35, Sovereign European Ukraine – 21, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. So we're not taking the required number of votes right now. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u84	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ruslan Volodymyrovich, regrettably, what Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok, director of the faction, said: we no longer have a successful vote after lunch. And this Supreme Council shows practically its inability to work full-time. So there's a simple proposal, we really need to move to Thursday, try to put these most important bills into order in the morning, and then vote. Because thank God that we were able to vote by noon on what we could say "by knee" to make this "pain" vote. But unfortunately, at this moment, we see that the Council is no longer able to work, and we have to acknowledge this fact, and the voters have to conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u85	Thank you. Caplin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u86	I fully support the previous speaker, my colleague, and I would like to say the following. Not only is there no half room here, the problem is that part of the hall, the chair here, is occupied by pseudo-deputies and pseudo-operators of ordinary people. We have two zeros in this vote: one from the Party of Regions, and the other from the so-called "Peace and Stability" group, and so have they failed the previous vote. Now let the peasants look at it and conclude: who feeds on Putin's "breath" today, who is fueling hostility, war in the country and calling himself a peaceful group. This means that the instant reelections, the illustration, the cleansing from the Supreme Council of Ukraine of all the villains, the sellers who, for the money of the Kremlin here, are ruining our economy -- our only chance of saving the lives of ordinary people, saving agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u87	National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, the bill is fine, it should be accepted. But, you see, there aren't enough votes in the room and we're failing the vote. So the proposal to move it to Thursday, I think Thursday will have the required number of votes and we'll do a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u89	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, the people's deputy Gruszewski will be with you for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u90	There are words of guilt here, and I think whoever's saying all this is probably referring to the fifth column, which spreads history, the conditions, not unification, but disunity. As for the bills, they should not be taken as hot cakes, but they should be weighed, with consultations, and then so that this decision, which was taken, and these bills, would not work alone, not for six months, but for three and five years and ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, we'll consider that we've discussed this bill, we'll try to put it on Thursday so that we can have a positive vote and a conclusion of the people's deputies. Let's move on to the next item in the order of our day. For your consideration, a draft Act (registration number 4075a) amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property (for pre-primary educational institutions) is proposed. How will we view this bill, honourable national deputies? Is it full? Ms. Lapina suggests a shorter procedure. Please. I'm voting on Mrs. Lapina's proposal for a shorter procedure for this bill. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[17:16:13]] For 168 The decision has been made. I invite the first Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Maksutoutoli Arkadyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft of this law has been designed to carry out important social tasks in the area of ensuring the rights of children in Ukraine to preschool education. The expansion of the preschool network and the increase in the level of coverage of such institutions are expected to be done by means of the restoration of preschool facilities whose activities have been suspended during the deterioration of the demographic situation in the country. As well as the opening of new facilities, both in new buildings and in adapted free rooms. The bill proposes to simplify the procedure for the free transfer of immovable property from state to municipal property for the placement of preschool institutions. Today, such a transfer is being made by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. It takes both time and effort. The project proposes the free transfer of immovable property for the placement of preschool educational institutions, as decided by an authority authorized to manage state property in agreement with Minfin, the Property Fund, the Mine Economic Development Fund, provided that local self - government authorities accept the obligation at the plenary session to use the immovable property transferred for a purpose and not to alienate it for private property. The implementation of this law will greatly simplify and shorten the deadline for making such decisions, and this law has been developed on numerous requests from local governments. Asking for support on the basis and perhaps on the whole, considering that this law is social-important and legally simple enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u93	Thank you. I invite the Vice-President of the Economic Policy Committee, Laupin Xeny Mikhailnov, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Xena Lapin, Party "For Ukraine!" The Fatherland faction. The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 2 July this year considered the bill, found that the purpose of the bill was indeed to simplify the procedure for the transfer of immovable property held in public property to municipal property for the purpose of the placement of pre-school institutions. In fact, the bill actually foresees the exclusive purpose of the transfer of property, simplifies the process of agreement, that is to say it passes to the local level and actually shortens the route of such transfer, and thus allows the opening of new preschool facilities as soon as possible. I think all the people's deputies, especially the majority, know that this is a problem today, that we all have complaints about shortcomings, that there are insufficient places in preschool. And today it's a common Ukrainian problem. Therefore, the committee at its meeting decided to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. In fact, the science department supports the bill. He has an editorial paper, but I don't think it's a principle, which is to replace the term "steady property for the placement of children's preschool" with the term "steady property reserved exclusively for the placement of children's preschool." In principle, this editorial amendment can now be made out of a voice, so I read it for the protocol and approved this bill in. on the basis and in general. The only thing I can see, unfortunately, is that we may not get votes again. Therefore, the request: To re-vote, if there are no votes, to adopt the bill on Thursday. Because there is a social urgent need to adopt it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u95	Thank you. Two in a row, two in a row from factions and groups. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Tabalov, the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u96	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Andrew Tabalov, 99th District, Kirovograd. The bill deserves attention, as the problem of having a child in kindergartens exists in many cities. For many families, it is topical and painful. Even though the local authorities are trying to bring back those kindergartens that were leased ten to fifteen years ago, there is still a shortage of preschool facilities. Today, many parents are unlikely to be able to get their children into preschool. For example, in the Kirovograd district of 530 kindergartens, they have a little over 29,000 seats, and the actual number of children is 32,000. This is evidence of overcrowding in kindergartens. Therefore, the proposed changes will ensure, firstly, the simplification of the reconciliation procedure for the transfer of preschool institutions from state to municipal property; secondly, they will shorten the terms of such transfer; and thirdly, they will expand the network of municipal educational institutions. I therefore support this bill, and I would like to point out that the draft needs to be further noted with regard to amendments to other legislative acts, such as the Ukrainian State Budget for 2014 Act (for the transfer of additional subsidies to local self-government authorities to finance the maintenance of such premises). The limitations on the financial capacity of local budgets will complicate the handling of reception issues, the transfer of objects to municipal property. And such changes should be foreseen in the bill. So I think that the project can be adopted in the first reading as a basis for taking into account the comments and suggestions that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u97	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Greenevich, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u98	The Fatherland faction will no doubt support this bill. But I want to notice and actually look to the government. Even the adoption of this law will not solve the problem of the deficit of preschool institutions today. So far, the transfer of buildings that are currently being used by the Pension Fund, the Tax Inspectorate, various government authorities has been very weak. There are also abandoned buildings owned by enterprises. So we really need to solve this problem in a variety of different, diversified ways. The entire civilized world of preschool education also solves the problem by developing a private initiative. And today, preschool private institutions do not have access to any communal property, they today have to pay for utilities, as well as taxes as commercial enterprises, and this thus leads to high school fees. So I'm very much asking the government to consider the possibility of initiating simplification today of registering, acquiring, and operating facilities for private preschools. This will greatly increase access to preschool education. I'd like to get another number for confirmation. In Kiev, there are 44,000 children in turn, more than 7,000 of whom are in need of compulsory preschool education today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u99	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Kaplan, the Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u100	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u101	Please turn on Oksani Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! And in a district that's not in the districts, we know how to get parents in advance when they're having a baby in order to be 3 years old, or earlier, or a little bit later put that baby in a garden. This is a process that was once brought about by privatization and the social sphere, and I will resell those gardens that were once gardens. When there was a low birth and there was no one to fill, there was no one to fill. At this point, we have, fortunately, a birth that needs new places where we can really have a good time with those kids whose parents are supposed to go to work. There are many enterprises, many state institutions that are ready to hand over to local self - government authorities to create new gardens their own premises, their fixed premises. But they do not have that possibility today. It is this bill that will allow if there is a consensus between the owner-balance sheetholder and the local self-government authorities who are ready to set up a new garden. This bill will allow for the transfer of real estate in order to create a new garden on the basis of it. The Vitalia Klicka faction supports this initiative and we call on all colleagues to vote on this bill, vote on it and support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u103	Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP Yankiv, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u104	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u105	Please turn on Michael Golovk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u106	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable deputies, colleagues. Indeed, this problem arose in the early 1990s, when after the collapse of the Union there was a great depression in Ukraine and we practically lost what the Ukrainians had not been born. And then there went this boom, the squall, and they started mass-closing, selling kindergartens, and they went to different places, and they were having fun, and there were bars, and there were restaurants. As a result, once the situation has stabilized, today a truly catastrophic problem lacks gardens and groups where our children could be given their own, because it creates a lot of problems for parents and violates their rights to work. And wherever it is, in the west, in the east, there's no place to give children away. There's actually a queue. For example, we have a register system in Ternopol, where parents are almost recorded in front of us in two years to put their child in a garden. And so this law will really make it easier for us to return public property objects to a utility where we can actually make them into kindergartens, but in this law we must make sure that only under kindergartens, so that there is no speculation, so that there will be no reabsorbing from the very purpose of this law. So I urge you to support and the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support and vote in favour of this bill because we have to do everything right now to improve the conditions for young families, so that our Ukrainians have the ability and the birth of children and children have the ability to study in preschool institutions and put them into kindergartens. So as legislators, we need to create all of these conditions so that children's kindergartens can be built in Ukraine. So now we have to make such a mechanism to get them back into state property where they were sold, sold, privatized under cabaks and other entertainment facilities, and now we have to create conditions for all those gardens to return to municipal property and to create conditions for Ukrainians to be born so that our nation thrives.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u108	that our nation thrives to create all the conditions for us to really develop. Please support this bill. But considering that there are very few deputies in the session room right now, I would still like to put in a vote, if there are no votes, then move it to four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u109	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the depth of the problem that is currently being considered, has its basis not only in the fact that children’s kindergartens were being sold out at no cost. The problem is deeper. The fact is, when factories, factories, and steamers were privatized, they were privatized along with social infrastructure. Then, there were large private palaces in the thousands and tens of thousands of metres of residential space. And then the owners of these private palaces tell us how to live. Where's the key to the problem? That's why it seems to me that what's written here in the right bill, and it's particularly correct to say that "no alienation to private property" should be addressed in a complex way, as Mrs. Greenevich suggested. But this does not mean that the bill should not be voted on, even in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u111	Please, come on. National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! It's actually a dead law. Why? Because I don't know the facts, and if they're probably isolated facts, they're transferring state-owned property to a utility. But it's not the transfer, let's say the State Property Fund, or the Tax Foundation, or the police, or the D.A.'s office. I know this from the great cities, including the capital of Ukraine, Kiev. So we still have to vote in favour of this bill because there is a simplified procedure. But what is the solution for people not to wait long for places for their children in kindergartens? In the construction of new areas, it is imperative that new kindergartens be introduced. This time. And secondly, give some priority to private education. For those teachers who want to help expand the network of preschool institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u113	Jacob Bezbach. Please turn on the microphone. Or from the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u114	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I categorically disagree with a colleague who has just spoken. What you build, what you plan, what you have to do, it's understandable. It is now necessary to stop selling these gardens that are today. We talk a lot and we take care of our children, "and the train and now there." In the industrial district of Dnepropetrovska, 4 orchards are out of action, and 20 years are no longer available! The Transnistrian Railway Three Gardens are being held in the Samarsk district. This is because there is a real shortage today! I support my colleague Greenevich, who just talked about it. To ban the sale, to stop the sale immediately, to the effect that these children's territories would have any effect on these kindergartens. Only in this case can we bring order today and give it to the children. So please, the law is good. Thank you to the authors of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, may we vote? The national deputy of the Insolent raises his hand as we may. Dear colleagues, let's give it a try. Still, do we take as a basis? Signal. Let's call those deputies, those MPs who aren't in the room. They have to be signalled all the time. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so everyone can come into the hall. We have the opportunity, my dear fellows, to make a decision. Only I ask, fellow officers, near the columns, colleagues, to the workplace, please. Please prepare for the vote. For kindergartens to save them. Now let's try the vote. I ask 4075a to support this law. Please, Your Honor, vote in a belligerent fashion. Please vote. All together. [[17:34:27]] For 212 In principle, the signal is positive. Can we mobilize some more voices? Can't we? I'm asking for factions, please. 62 – "Patternal" (reserves more, colleagues, search), the Party of Regions – 1 for kindergartens only, "AWOL" – 35, 27 – "Economic development", 34 – "Freedom", 24 – "Sovereign European Ukraine" (as a monolith), "For Peace and Stability" – 1 only MP, KPU – traditionally 0, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues! Andrew Volodymyrovich, can we vote? We can't. But I feel like we're mobilizing right now. Colleagues, come on, all together as little children, so they can go to kindergartens. Let us, fellow believers, as a foundation together, be responsible. Please, colleagues. Deputy Kaplin just walked in. That's the voice we were missing. Let's put it on the ground. Together. 4075a. Please, we're voting together. For the kids, come on. [[17:36:02]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Offer. The factions, please. 70 – "The Fatherland", 1 – Regional, "The Impact" – 38, 31 – "The Economic Development", 35 – "Freedom", 26 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", "For Peace and Stability" – no one, the Company – 0 – non-fractional – 29. The whole offer? Is it all or not? Stojko, National Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u116	Alexander Valentinovich, please return to voting for laws that push us closer to Europe. We're a signal, as you say, but we didn't, we didn't have voices. There are voices right now, and I think it's your presence in the hall that gives us strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u117	Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, let's deal with this law. Can we vote in general? We can. We can't? We can. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u118	It's just a note that I've been editing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u119	With the editorial remarks that the People's Deputy of Lapin sounded, right? Xenia, please take your seat. Let's try to vote in general. National MP Kunicin, please go to your place of work, every voice is now important. Please, Your Honor, generally support Law 4075a. Together we vote responsibly, please, honourable colleagues, as a whole. [[17:37:56]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. All Ukrainian children thank you, distinguished national deputies, for being able to mobilize and vote. The factions, please. 70 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 1 for Children, Impact - 38, Economic Development - 30, 35 - Freedom, 26 - Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability - 2, CPU - 0, non-fractional - 31. The young men were unfractional, able, and able to reach the voting button. Why? Dear colleagues, come on, please, the Minister of the APC is asking to vote. I'm asking you for motive, "BITCH," who do we have? Angular, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u120	Thank you very much. Deputy Kutov, Vitaly Klicka Faction. Alexander Valentinovich, we've been thinking about why we called, and we've been really signaling you to come to the hall, and we have a minister in the hall. As the first deputy to the agro-politics committee, we are really asking you to vote on legislation on food safety, control and so forth. If you please, let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I think we should listen to the Kutov People's Deputy, he has a great deal of experience on this issue. I see that Alexander Mirny also supports this proposal. Vote? Vote. Valérie, shall we vote? 4179a, I understand? Yes. Let's talk about this, dear fellows, and now even Andrew Derkach is ready to support this proposal. Please, Your Honor, let's sit in our seats, prepare for the vote, and responsibly push the buttons for the Ukrainian village. Please. The whole offer? On the basis and in general. Responsible? Is it effective? Yes. Can we do it in general? Give the APC minister a card, he wants to vote too. Please, Your Honor, on the basis and in general, we vote 4179a. Protect our agrarians. [[17:40:36]] For 224 Colleagues, you can't do that either. There was inspiration. Dear colleagues, by the factions who have broken through, let's see. 67 – "Paternal Development", "Freedom" – 35.26 – "Sovereign European Ukraine" – "For Peace and Stability" – 0, "For Peace and Stability" – "Freedom" – 35.26 – "Sovereign European Ukraine". Dear colleagues, there are resources and reserves in non-fractionals. Please, are we going back? We're going back. Colleagues, the APC is the strategic sector of our economy. Please, Alexander Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u122	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich, this is purely technical. You can see that people were running around the hall just couldn't make it. This is the first time. Secondly, I want to remind you, and that's true, everyone in this room knows that there were working groups working here, that the wishes of everyone were taken into account and discussed, if anything turned down, was justified. And this law is necessary for: first, agrarians, and secondly, it's not funny for the financial system. Because these are the next tranches of loans that will enter Ukraine. I suggest we go back and vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the APC and return to this question. That's what all the factions insist on, isn't it? I'm the only one I'm asking responsiblely, colleagues, let's sit down for our jobs, let's adjust to the result. When there is a conviction that there will be a result, the result will be sure. Please come back to that question. Let's go together, we'll vote with confidence. Please return to this question. [[17:42:42]] For 231 Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking Vitaly Zurawsky. Vitaly Žuravsky, your voice was decisive in this case, let's now take the basis and the whole. Please, Your Honor, please vote for the basis, and in general, together, we push the "yes" button. Please. [[17:43:14]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 70.0 – region – impact – 38.30 – Economic Development, Freedom – 35.27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – MSA, KPU 0 – non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's not split up, please. Someone stand on the door so no one leaves. There is now an inspiration in Parliament to vote. Yes or no? We can, we can. Colleagues, I apologize, we have two laws that have been reported and not voted in the first reading. We can vote 4986, 4986-1 and 4055. I'm asking you, these laws are alternative. First, we vote 4986, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not. Please, People's Deputy Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u124	Alexander Valentinovich, honourable colleagues, we were looking at and when we reported to the chairman of the committee, we came to the idea that we could first vote on the bill (4986-1) and it was the minister's consent. And in the committee's discussion, we agreed that if possible, we would first vote on our colleague Oxana's Bill Sold, because it basically reflects all the positions that are in the government, and it also has a few more positions that are written out a little bit better. So I ask him to put it to the vote first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u125	Are we voting on the ground? Based on the base. Just on the basis of the faction, the honourable colleagues, come on, insist on the faction, on the basis. Colleagues, colleagues, on the basis of that, it's also important. Come on, is it ready to vote? Let's go! So, respectable colleagues, first reading, we're adopting Bill 4986-1: the draft Law on State Control in the Safety and Quality of Food and Feeding. Animal welfare, respectable colleagues, well, who can say anything against it? We'll support, support animal welfare, respectable colleagues, because it's the quality of our diet. Please, Your Honor, on a basis together. Friends, friends, not everyone, not everyone, I see, push. [[17:46:02]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I say again, well, we have a chance to make a decision! [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, colleagues, may I return to this question as a basis? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vitaly Zharavsky, well, you were gone again. You got your vote pierced again, you know? Dear colleagues, can we go back? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats, let's stop walking around the hall! We still have a few laws to pass -- and responsiblely, we can go rest until tomorrow's session. Dear colleagues, I can see that they're coming along and the national MPs are coming along, the new forces are coming along. Dear colleagues, please return to this vote. Please support the return to the vote. Helena, vote! Please! [[17:47:05]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the border, at the border. I beg you, no one leaves the hall. Let's do it now, first. No, we're back. We should take it on a base. Dear colleagues, going back isn't the answer. To solve a question is to take it as a basis. Please, Alexander Volodymyrna, help me to vote. On the basis of that, I ask you together, responsible. Vote. [[17:47:42]] For 231 Decision taken. Now all MPs can look at animals quietly, can't they? It's a short-term procedure. Let us, fellows of honor, support. Vitalia, take your seat, please. For a reduced procedure, respectable colleagues. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[17:48:14]] For 218. Short cut didn't go away. The decision is not made. Well, I think it'll be ready for parliamentary next week. Dear colleagues! Let's see, we're about to have the next meeting and the committee will be ready. Let's not push. Dear colleagues! 4055a or no? A bill on animal by-products that are not intended for human consumption. Dear colleagues, in order to avoid food poisoning, we must vote on it. Yes or no? Please, Your Honor, 4055a. Are you ready? There's a ready one. Please vote for base 4055a. Please. [[17:49:15.]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, and now imagine the situation, our agrarians have full legislation to provide their activities, they have the opportunity to export their goods abroad, but they don't have a visa to go to Europe, and that's why we have to adopt a law that provides visa-free. Yes or no? Moving our citizens around Europe. [[Noise Nodes]] [[Applause]] Not to be mistaken, Valérie, what's the number? Valery's punk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u126	4991.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u127	4991, this is the second reading, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u128	And miners without visas, and doctors without visas. Dear colleagues, an important question about the only national demographic register is the law on the visa-free regime package for our citizens regarding their travels to the European Union. We discussed it in detail. Can we back it up? For visa-free mode. Please, Your Honor, 4991. In the second reading and in general. Please. A very responsible vote. Colleagues are very responsible, all of Europe is looking at us, please vote. [[17:50:58]] For 223 Colleagues, shameful in front of Europe. Please. I'm asking my colleagues. Fellows, let's joke, let's get serious work done, well, serious laws, it's not that we're just playing now, it's the responsible decisions that the Supreme Council is making, the responsible decisions that will ensure us European integration. I ask you to return to this vote, everyone. And non-fractional, please. Please return to this decision. We're voting together. [[17:51:44]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, at the border. Please, let's not run around the hall. One vote is decisive. Please, Your Honor, support the second reading, the project, registration number 4991, the Single National Demographic Register and the documents supporting Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his or her special status. Please, Your Honor, visa-free support, support everyone. In general, I ask you to uphold this law. Let's make this quick. [[17:52:27]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, thank you. Dear colleagues, in principle we have decided many questions. Asking the coal miners for budget transfers, but I don't know, will we have enough votes? 4980 is in order only, only for the daytime. Now. Minust signed. It's a redistribution of funding, dear colleagues. In order of the day, please insert 4980. Now, now, dear colleagues. Oleg, 4980.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u129	I vote, Palamarczuk asks, we must support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u130	Dear colleagues! Please sit in your workplace and include a day-to-day project on the issues of our miners. In order of the day. Minfin's backing up. There's a visa from Minfin on that. Please, Your Honor, vote for inclusion in the order of the day 4980. Please vote. [[17:53:51]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 4247a is a draft law on security measures for the detention of persons involved in terrorist activities. Dear colleagues, terrorists can break free, we cannot allow that. The Supreme Council must make a responsible decision. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna, then I'll give you my word. We have literally five minutes left, five responsible minutes that we can make decisions that will protect our citizens from terrorists. Dear colleagues, please, for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote in the order of the day 4247a – the fight against terrorism. [[17:54:50]] For 201 No, something about terrorism doesn't work for us to fight responsibly. "To" - 201. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 72 – Fatherland, Region – 0 (this is clear), 37 – Impact, 13 – Economic Development, 35 – Freedom, Sovereign European Ukraine works professionally – 27.0 – MSA, IPU – 0 – non-fractional – 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u131	My colleagues, I say again, we're tired of people, I understand, working hard. That's not right. This is wrong, because these are laws that need to be maintained. Alexander Volodymyr, from the rostrum, please say two words. We can now make the last vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u132	Dear friends, let us make this day a positive one and vote in the second reading on the principle of control, which is prohibited from stopping businesses without trial, the responsibility of the control bodies, the very positive changes for business and for your voters. Please love Ukraine and Ukraine’s entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u133	Number, number, Alexandra Volodymyrna?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u134	0937.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-22-m1.u135	0937. Dear colleagues, I recall, are the basic principles of State oversight (control) in the field of economic activity. Colleagues, ready? Is the MPs responsible for the Fatherland's fate? Yes. Please, Your Honor, 0937 in the second reading, both in general and in general, respected colleagues. I'm looking at the monitor, we can accept when all the national MPs vote, all without exception, all those in the room, then there's a chance. Please 0937 in the second reading and in general. Please be supportive. [[17:56:49]] For 225 I'm asking you, come on, come on, you're lifting your hands. Colleagues, well, they're watching with the "Council" channel how the Supreme Council works and the people are surprised that we can't make a responsible decision with you. Please, Your Honor, come back to this question, just come back when everyone's voting. Andry Volodymyrovich, everyone's voting. The system works, the MPs don't work. Please, Your Honor, come back to this question, but everyone, everyone, is pressing the button. Please, Your Honor, we vote. [[17:57:38]] For 230 It's possible, there's a possibility, dear colleagues, but it's back. Alexander Volodymyrna, do not rejoice until we are fully accepted. Please generally support this project, 0937 in general. We don't break up, we don't relax, dear colleagues, we push the buttons. Please, in general. [[17:58:04]] For 224 Guys, come on, who's kidding? Well, 230 votes, we do. No factions, please return and immediately double the vote. Do we make a double? Let's do it now. Please return to the vote. We can't, we can go back first, and then in general. We vote everyone, no one breaks up. [[17:58:35]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again, I see there are voices in the hall. Colleagues, by the factions, let me see who's suctioning. Parenthood – 71, Regions – 0, traditionally, 38 – Impact, normal, 30 – Economic Development, positive, 35 – Freedom, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, MS - 0, KPU – 0, 24 – non-fractional. Colleagues, please return to this question. There's a possibility that I'm looking you in the eye, voting, going back to that question. Jura vote, then you tell me. [[17:59:27]] For 229 And without a break. All of it. Yura, in general. Vote. [[17:59:46]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand, we're voting back, and in general we're not voting on what's the problem? I'm once again, colleagues, we've voted for the 15th time on the principles of public oversight, control in the field of economic activity (as regards the ban on checking businesses). My colleagues, once again, we have 230 votes, National Deputy Timoshenko is already late for an important meeting with the MPs, with the electorate more loyally. Let's try it one last time, the last one, let's fail, let's fail. Colleagues, I see hands, there's no time to speak. The Opanaschenko People's Deputies have failed to vote because of you. Dear colleagues, I beg of you, National Deputy Opanaschenko, take your seats, please, all of you, watching as you vote for no checks on enterprises that work for the state. Ladies and gentlemen, please, your final attempt. After that they'll talk cards work, I won't put them to the vote anymore. Please return to the matter. Please, dear fellows, be responsible, let us take this seriously. Please vote. [[18:01:38]] For 238. Decision taken. In general, please vote on Bill 0937. Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[18:01:59]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. We supported both our farms and our entrepreneurs and all the citizens who plan to travel without a visa to Europe. Thank you, Supreme Council. We are adjourning this evening's meeting and continuing our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
