ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. Traditionally, I'm informing my colleagues, while you're preparing to register your ballot cards, I'm traditionally informing you that today is the birthday of the national deputies: Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, Jiga Mikoli Vasilovich, Struka Vladimir Alexiyovich. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:05:26]] There were 295 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear National Deputies! I want to inform you that the first stage of the Universal Round Table took place yesterday. Our task is to find understanding, to start a dialogue with those, including representatives of local self-government, culture, science, the people of Donetsk and Lugansk. It's with those who want to find a way out of a crisis situation within the framework of the current law and the Constitution. It is in the right field that there is a way out of this situation. But with those who have raised arms against their own country, with those who carry out the tasks of another state in destabilizing the situation both in the region and in the country, the force structures will carry out anti-terrorist measures. And I'm informing you that tonight under Kramatorsky within the anti-terror operation, a completely destroyed disguised military base of terrorists. Again today, a fortress within the city of Sloviansk was attacked and destroyed last night and completely cleared from terrorists a five - mile [5 km] zone around a television tower that broadcasts Ukrainian television to the city of Slavyansk, Kramatorsk, and other areas of the Donetsk region. Dear colleagues, let's consult with you, because as soon as we got started, the faction of the Party of the Regions and the faction of the Communists made a statement to announce the break. I am again addressing the leaders of the faction of the Communist Party and factions. Why don't we give you a chance to make a statement? Dear colleagues, at the same time. Let's see, now that there's a proposal for a break for consultations, I've also received a statement from the Fatherland and Freedom factions about the possibility of making an application. I'm addressing the leadership of the Fatherland and Freedom factions, can we make a statement now? We can. Please, I give the floor to the head of the Fatherland faction Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On May 14, 2014, at 5 p.m., 20 minutes ago, officials of the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior's regional and city offices, under the apparently premeditated and false pretext, attempted to break into the party office of the Vinnicki District Organization of the Fathers' Party, which is now the headquarters of the candidate of the President of Yulia Timoshenko, in order to remove the officially printed newspaper. This newspaper provides information under the Elections Act, it has the output, it has the circulation, it's about who's responsible for the release, and there's actually every possibility for this newspaper to be distributed as part of the election campaign. Unfortunately, the district leadership and the local leadership of Fatherland states that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is being used to carry out a dirty campaign against a candidate at the Presidential office of Yulia Timoshenko using the Ministry of Internal Affairs. This is an unprecedented case where the Ministry of Internal Affairs is used for political purposes to collect accounts. And I think this statement should be a reference to the Minister of Internal Affairs: to immediately understand how the municipal and district administration of Winniek is used to collect political accounts. Furthermore, we would like to hear the Attorney-General's report, on the basis that one candidate against another candidate today can be used for political purposes directly by internal affairs bodies. I don't think the old days of Yanukovich can come back, because if we're going to use force structures to collect accounts, to remove documentation, and that's what they're doing at the Fatherland office right now, it's very much like the old days of Yanukovich and the Party of the Regions. Please consider this application an official appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u3	Thank you. Time's up. I've been asking you since Liberty, please, People's Deputy Michalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u4	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Can you imagine Germany after the 9th of May, in which, after Hitler’s suicide in the German Reichstag, Haydrich, Himmler, Caltenbrunner, and other characters like that, sits in Germany? The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union demands that today's day-to-day issue of removing the inviolability of Mr. King's odinous Ukrainianophobic, from the Kremlin, from the Putin tampax, today remove the inviolability in this room and demonstrate that our boys are fighting terror in the East, and we're fighting terrorists in the Supreme Council. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like, in accordance with the statement made by the Head of the Fatherland faction, to give an order to the Attorney General in charge of the responsibility of the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs to carry out very quickly and to report on the events that took place in Winnica. In the event of abuse of authority by officials, make appropriate human resources proposals. As for the Communist Party, are you insisting on a break? They insist on taking a break. In accordance with the Rules, I announce a break of half an hour, up to 10 hours 45 minutes. I'd like the faction leaders to meet at the head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is continuing its work. Please sit down all the nationals in your workplace. Please. Dear colleagues, please, let's continue the work of the Supreme Council. And so it took too long to break, which was initiated by two factions. You and I have very serious questions about the ratification of international agreements. Now, now. Please, I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to make an announcement so that all the national MPs will meet in the hall because the votes will be very responsible. And I'm calling on the heads of MPs and factions to ensure the work of your factions and groups. Please, will the initiators make a statement or not? Once again, who will be speaking from the Party of Regions? [[B in m in s a l in]] One and a half minutes, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Three minutes of everything. Two minutes, one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, let's waste more time. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u7	Dear fellow MPs! First of all, I address Ukrainian citizens. Yesterday, the round table held in Kiev, which was designed to solve problems in society, to stop the bloodshed, failed. After this round table, where an exchange of views was proposed for the second round table to be held in Donetsk or Luhansk, the authorities struck another blow: an exit was made against their own people, and at night people were killed again. This is unacceptable! There should be no bloodshed during peace negotiations. That's the first one. The faction of the Party of the Regions demanded a suspension in order to consult with the authorities and demanded the cessation of an anti-terrorist operation, which, we repeat, has become a terrorist. I now wish to address the inhabitants of other regions of Ukraine, Donetsk and Luhansk, and so on. Why do we need a ceasefire? The anti-terrorist operation was essentially deadlocked, and it was not responding adequately to the problems that had accumulated in the East. Yes, we recognize that there are situations in the East that have to do with looting and banditry. But power must be combated by a targeted method, destroying the bandits and separating them from those who have taken an active stand and shed blood and fighting for their rights. This is the main crime of the government that has united both the bandits and the peaceful Protestants and those who have taken an active stand and are fighting arms in the hands of their region. We demand the cessation of an anti-terrorist operation and the shedding of blood because it is a war against its own people. We demand the disbandment of the National Guard, the Dnieper private battalion and the suspension of the operation during peace negotiations. In these peace negotiations, we must come up with a position, a new version of the Constitution and propose to society. In the East, millions of people came to the referendum, they voted, they're not separatists, they're not separatists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u8	At the expense of the Communists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u9	People came to the East, they're not separatists. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, do not call them separatists, they vote against this authority, they vote for their rights. And today we must offer them the conditions under which they will be comfortable in this country. We must all keep Ukraine together as our only home! We must fight for Ukraine! We demand the cessation of an anti-terrorist operation, its suspension as long as peace talks are held. In these circumstances, we consider it impossible to continue the work of Parliament. It's hypocrisy! While the blood is flowing, Parliament must take measures to put an end to this war, not to work and vote here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u11	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! In expressing the position of the faction of the Company, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we equally appreciate that it is the territory of the western regions of Ukraine and the territory of the eastern regions of Ukraine, particularly the Ukrainians. And all that hurts the people of Ukraine today, we need to hear our own people here, parliamentarians. We must offer them adequate measures to meet their demands, their demands for life, to ensure that their demands and life-related issues are not diverted in time by the blood and death of our people. I want to ask everyone here. Tell me, please, is it a hundred people who died in Maidan who put their heads on the ground for war in Ukraine? I'm sure they didn't put their heads together for war in the country, they put their heads together, and you claimed it for legality.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u12	Give me one minute to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u13	They put their heads in place, I believe, so that there is legitimacy and order in the country for Ukrainian citizens to hear both in the East and in the West. They did not lay down their heads for killing their own people by the regular oligarchs who came to power during the war. I would therefore like to reiterate the principled position of the faction of the Company. One: Stop the bloodshed immediately. And power will show its power only then, and it will be understood and heard when it first stops and takes a step back. Therefore, stop this terrorist operation immediately, withdraw troops and sit at a negotiating table with the people of Ukraine, with those who want to live in Ukraine today, those who want to live in peace, harmony and justice. That's why I demand it on behalf of our faction immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I remind everyone who hears us that the anti-terrorist operation is being carried out to protect Ukrainian citizens. It is directed against those who kill, who rob, who kidnap people, who fight in arms against Ukraine. And it is against them that these anti-terrorist measures are being carried out, the aim of which is to protect Ukrainian citizens, to protect Ukraine. We discussed during the Conciliation Council, which is not excluded from the adoption of the Supreme Council Declaration, and around this declaration, please, there may be a group of representatives of each factions who would suggest that the anti-terrorist operation could be stopped when the arms were folded when the hostages were released. We are in charge of resolving matters in a peaceful way. With those who are willing to cooperate, to talk, to talk, to talk, we're leading this dialogue, we're working on changes in the Constitution, and expansion of local self-government, and other important issues. At the same time, those who wage war against Ukraine will receive an adequate answer, the answer that we owe to our country in protecting our citizens. Dear colleagues! We have, I'll remind you, four today: we don't come from factions. We've wasted so much time. That's why I'm asking us to move on to important issues, particularly the ratification block of international agreements. And the first one is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Ukraine: Comprehensive (Integrated) Program to enhance the safety of nuclear power plants between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development). Dear colleagues! Can we, in summary, consider ratification issues? We can. I'm asking you to support the proposal so that we can consider all ratification issues with a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:49:51]] For 178. Decision taken. Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Sold Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u15	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! You have been presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Ukraine: Integrated (Integrated) Program to increase the safety of nuclear power plants between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development). The purpose of the adoption of the law is to implement internal procedures to give consent to the obligation of an international contract under the "Comprehensive (Constructed) Nuclear Power Cloud Security Program". The adoption of a law in Ukraine will allow for a 300 million-euro loan from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance security measures for all 15 nuclear power grids of Ukrainian nuclear power plants. The total cost of the project is 1.2 billion euros, the project is projected at the expense of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – 300 million euros, as well as at the expense of the European Atomic Energy Community – is also 300 million euros. And this is the bill that we're going to ratify next. And also at the expense of Energoatom, which is being released from the sale of electricity, at about 600 million euros. In accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement with the European Bank, the loan is granted for 15 years and the completion of the project is planned by the end of 2017. The project will improve the safety of nuclear power plants, reduce the risk of accidents at power stations during natural disasters, or other extremes. It will also increase the safety of Ukrainian nuclear power plants to a level that meets international security requirements today, such as the International Atomic Energy Agency and the European Union. I'd like to ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Rules do not provide for questions. I think you'll be able to highlight the points you're interested in, and the minister will answer all the questions in the closing statement. Let's do this. Please sit down, Your Honor Yuri Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this. As for the committee, please, while the record is coming up, please, Gregory Mikhailovich, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u17	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the European Integration Committee discussed the issue of ratification and unanimously decided to support it. The first question we consider and the second are related because there is a loan coming from two sources. The first is 300 million euros from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and the second is from the European Atomic Energy Community, and 300 million euros. The parameters, I want to make a sound for those who haven't heard. This is the deadline for completion of these loans by December 31, 2017. The maturity, the repayment of the loan is 15 years. The percentages that are applied are the benefits depending on the fluctuation of the pound's rate they're going to be 1 to 2 percent of the year's. It's about all the blocks that are in Ukraine and bringing the standards of exploitation to international ones, including the MAGATE standards. I urge you all to support this ratification today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let's discuss this with a reduced procedure. Please, National MP Mirni, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u19	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Of course, the issue of improving the safety of nuclear power plants in a country that has survived the Chernobyl disaster should always be at the top of the list. And we should thank our international partners who are willing to provide the necessary funds to increase security, I emphasize, our nuclear power stations. I want to point out that virtually nothing has been done in previous years to finally reach the minimum level of security that allows us to at least quietly exploit those reactors that we have in Ukraine. And I want to remind our reactors that it's not less than 15 to 20 years, or more. And it's clearly going to be a question, it's going to be every day, I emphasize, every day more and more relevant and more urgent. One wish and requirement of the All-U.S. Freedom: to be the most stringent control over the use of these funds, to be absolutely transparent reporting to be access, open access to public information about the use of these funds, and the measures that need to be taken. There are, if I'm not mistaken, more than 220. Looks like 225. So please. Energy is supposed to report, and we have to control it. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this ratification and call upon all other factions, regardless of political views, to support this agreement as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u20	Please, National Deputy Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u21	Indeed, no nation of the world, like Ukraine, has ever experienced the safety or danger of nuclear energy. So what we have today is that we have the opportunity to borrow this kind of interest and do everything at nuclear power plants to not provide minimum security, but to ensure that it's appropriate, because this life is not just Ukrainians, but radiation has the ability to spread to other countries, it has no borders. I think this is where we're going to discuss, we can not waste time, and for the second law, the ratification of the second agreement and the vote. Our parliamentary group will unanimously support, as necessary, the benefits and security of Ukraine's nuclear energy, meaning, for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u22	The people's deputy Yavorowski, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u23	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, with the passing of time, unfortunately, very sadly, in fact, the consequences of the world's worst technological catastrophe are Chernobyl, only to the extent that the actual protection laws are frozen, to help the victims of the Chernobyl disaster. Indeed, this is the biggest catastrophe -- Chernobyl -- which was because even in Tri-Mail Island, America, the disaster cost Americans thousands of times easier because there was a second shell of the reactor and actually no radioactive waste was thrown into the air. It all came out literally -- and after a few days, it was even in Scandinavia. Because of this, of course, we need to remember and know that we are not yet working very well, I will gently say, not very perfect reactors. Because those who were at the Chernobyl station are VR-1000, and it's good that we now have more modernized reactors, but we still have to remember Chernobyl and Fukushima. It would seem that someone, and the Japanese are already working at this technical level, and they also have an unforeseeable catastrophe. Because of this, of course, this loan is very, very convenient for us. It stretches at a time of 15 years. I am convinced that in 15 years Ukraine will become a powerful and strong and financially and politically strong country, and it will be very easy to repay this debt. My predecessor colleagues have already spoken here. Once again, I stress to our distinguished minister, Mr. Sold, that we must do everything we can to ensure that this money is used effectively. I emphasize, effectively. We know that some of the money goes to the Chernobyl 30-mile zone. And we know it's just a black hole, and it's incredibly small.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u24	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u25	We have 800 temporary so-called funerals, which have been open for so many years, and they haven't been damaged. That's why we need this loan. And I think everyone in this room is going to support this ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u26	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Dorokhov. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u27	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u28	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! The Company's faction over the years has consistently supported the proposals made by the State of Ukraine to finance the resolution of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And we have helped to ensure that legislation adopted in Ukraine protects those affected by this Chernobyl disaster. Regrettably, by enacting laws, subject to the changed authority, what had happened was real, and power had passed into the same oligarchs, it was clear that these programmes had not been implemented and that fewer and fewer Chernobyls had received State support every year. The same as the least funded the power station-related programmes with the facility itself. I'm not talking about the same storage facility for dry nuclear waste that I don't know how many years it took to waste effort and conversation, and money was allocated, but they didn't do anything so much. I would like to draw your attention, distinguished colleagues, to who will now vote, and I will say that the faction will temporarily refrain from supporting for one simple reason. We would like to have an estimate of the cost of this loan for us, the people's deputies. To be clear, where, within what time frame, the programs will go. And for those of you who doubt, I will read what is written here in this agreement. The agreement states that the State, by signing this agreement, has the right to increase electricity tariffs so that the borrower can repay the loan. That is, in a very difficult economic situation, the enormous social problems of the entire burden of this loan are transferred to the common citizens of Ukraine. And from this credit will be obtained in commercial banks it will be, and the oligarchs will be enriched, and various organizations will be financed incomprehensiblely under which programmes are rather simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u30	Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u31	One phrase. And ordinary people will repay that loan. Therefore, the faction requires a virtually simple language: an estimate of the cost of this loan, so that we can understand who will be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, we have concluded this discussion. I understand the Minister of Energy has something to comment on that tariffs are increasing there, and so forth. Turn on the Minister of Energy microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to comment on the issue of controlling the use of these funds. What I'm saying is that this is already the first degree of control that these loans are being granted by international financial organizations. Because international financial organizations put their funds under clearly defined projects, with clearly defined goals and consequences. This is the first degree of control. If we have to answer any questions about using funds, we're willing to publish any data, where these funds are going, and where they're going to be sent in fact. Thank you. There was a question about the storage of nuclear fuel. So we've already started this process. Today, the process of decommissioning has begun. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've completed our brief discussion. And I want to remind you that this is about energy security, about the safety of nuclear reactors. And here, I am convinced, all the political forces are interested in supporting this project, ratifying this decision, because this is the life of our country, this is the safety of our people. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you now to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Registration No. 0081). I ask that we support him as a whole. The only ones, my dear colleagues, are very many people walking around the hall. Please, Mr. Donny!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u35	Mr. Donny, please! Oles Sergiyovich, please sit down and we will now vote on a very important matter. I ask, Your Honor, to invite the people's deputies to the hall so that we can support this issue with our votes. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and vote, Andri Volodymyrovich, vote on the basis of the project as a whole (registration number 0081). I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please vote. [[12:06:16]] For 239. Decision taken. The factions, please. 23 - Party of Regions, Fatherland - 70, Impact - 29, 28 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 26, 31 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 32. Dear colleagues, the next question is also related to the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between Ukraine as the Guarantee and European Atomic Energy Society as the Creditor for the loan mechanism, which amounts to 300,000,000 (three million) euros, from 7 August 2013 between the National Atomic Energy Company Energoat and the European Atomic Energy Community, to the implementation of the Integrated (constructed) Project. So this is actually a continuation of the same topic. Please, Minister, on the rostrum. I'll remind you that we've decided all ratification issues to vote in favour of a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for supporting the previous bill. What I'm saying is that this is the second part of this project that I've reported from this rostrum. Therefore, honourable deputies, so as not to waste time, I ask you to support this bill. His goals are the same. And I would like to take this opportunity to ask you, honourable national MPs, to support also Bill 4566, which will be considered today: to prevent the bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises, including Energoat. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote without discussion? We can. I ask, fellow Members, to sit in your workplace and support the whole ratification project of the Guarantee Agreement (registration number 0082). Please, Your Honor, support this project. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[12:08:43]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for factions, please give me a vote. 15 – "Regions", "Paternity" – 69, 24 – "BACK" – "Economic development" – 28.31 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 30 – "Freedom", The Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, the next issue we need to discuss and support is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Letters) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the amendment of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine since 20 November 1997. Please give the floor to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Mohnik Andrija Volodymirovich. I'm asking the faction leaders to work with people. I see a lot of people missing. I'll give you a chance to discuss this. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Letters) between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the amendment of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine (since 20 November 1997) (developed by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine). The main purpose of the bill is to establish appropriate legal conditions for the amendment of the Framework Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank on the activities of the Chernobyl Fund "Hiddening" in Ukraine to ensure that Ukraine makes an additional contribution of $63.4 million to the resources of the Chernobyl Fund "Hiddening", which finances the implementation of the "Hiddening" plan in accordance with the agreement between the countries of the great family and Ukraine. The total amount of Ukraine's contribution to the Chernobyl Fund will thus be $167,563 million. Ratification of the agreement will create the right conditions for the continuation of fruitful cooperation between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the area of financing, preparation and implementation of purchase, installation and operation of equipment to assist Ukraine in the completion of the construction of a new secure configuration and the conversion of the Chernobyl AES facility into an environmentally sound system. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention. I would like to point out, by the way, that, at this time, Ukraine remains one of the countries that has not yet legitimized the said contributions, which were announced on 19 April 2011 in Kiev at the International Conference on the Collection of Funds for the implementation of the Chernobyl Projects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, there is a need to discuss, I see hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me put it this way, I'll give the two people's deputies an opportunity to talk. Please, the national deputy Opanaszenko and Rudzkowski insist on the performance, and Žuravsky. Please, two minutes from here. From the committee to the end, after the speeches, I ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, this is a really important question, because the tragedy that took place in Chernobyl is, I think, a state-wide tragedy and a very big consequence. So this is a very important bill that needs to be supported. But at the same time, I insist that the Supreme Council set up a special parliamentary commission using these funds. Because these costs need to be used as rationally as possible and eliminate the radiation emissions that are still taking place in Chernobyl. And there are so many abuses, and I would like to see these funds under control. So I'm going to insist on the creation of such a special parliamentary commission to control the use and implementation of this program and the use of funds. And the bill is really important, and I ask everyone to support this bill as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u41	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski. When we're done, we'll give the head of the profile committee a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support this bill, it's very important for the safety, safety and security of the Chernobyl nuclear reactor, which has had a tragedy. But I am now also addressing you on another tragedy that we have today in Ukraine. On behalf of the mothers whose children are mobilized into the army, on behalf of the people who live on Donbassa and under the windows who are shot by machine guns, on behalf of all those who do not want people to die in Ukraine. I have introduced a bill (4874) on the conduct of the President's elections on a single round. It is this law that will prevent people from perishing between the first and the second rounds. I'm asking the Supreme Council to stop the deaths of people in Ukraine. Maybe the package needs to be stopped and the anti-terrorist operation before the President's election. One tour, we will have an official who, along with the local elite, will solve the ball. We'll save lives, we'll have to compromise, we'll compromise, we'll do more than just calmly deal with economic issues when people in the East die!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! National MP Calchenko, please. Please, Valery Mikhailovich. Now, now, I see another opportunity will come forward, and the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I would like to say very professionally about the construction of a new secure confination. At last it started to build energetically, more than half, one arch is already mounted, one half is being built, and the other one is being built. It's a huge project, there's 34,000 tons of metal -- two Eiffel Towers. Every month, about 10 million euros are now being spent, and very large amounts are being collected, but they are still missing. Something about checking out these funds. The money is all in England, in London, and it's used by the French firm Navarka. So it is very difficult to say how the individual deputies will check this money. The main thing is that the previous authorities have not ratified this agreement in three years. And when you come to London to ask for more money, they say, "So Ukraine didn't give money -- it didn't even ratify this deal!" And only the ratification of this agreement will give us the opportunity to raise more money that we still have to do. So I'm just calling for the image of Ukraine to be protected and for the ratification of this law to be voted upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u45	Thank you. The national deputy of Žuravsky, a respected colleague, is the last to speak. And then the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, this is about a total loan of 1 billion 200 million euros. Do you need this loan or not? Of course you do. We need to increase the level of energy security. But here we cannot help but agree with our colleagues who say that we need to control how these costs will be spent. Parliament, in accordance with the 2004 Constitution, has a special right of control over executive power. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the budgetary committee to monitor the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to monitor how these very important funds would be spent to implement the “Hiddenness” programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! The word is given to Gregory Mikhailovich Nemiri, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! I address everyone because everyone here, without exception, when the days of the Chernobyl tragedy come along, every year they say what a tragedy that is for Ukraine, which has touched everyone. And now that I see that some colleagues are not voting or are not going to vote, the question is, What are they not voting for or what are they not going to vote for? To continue the work that will ensure that such a tragedy will not happen again. In order to keep this "Hidden" object, "Shelter," safe. In order for him to be safe, he needs to be maintained in such a state. And when Ukraine -- now I want to say that the total amount of this Hidden Fund is 1 billion 573 million euros -- today we're saying that Ukraine, the contribution of Ukraine, is slightly more than 100 million euros. It's all the other states, the Great Seven countries, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is giving this money. If we don't ratify this treaty today, Ukraine won't be able to use this money -- and security will certainly get worse, so it'll have to be responsible. So I am addressing everyone, without exception, a colleague, regardless of which faction they belong to, to vote and to support the ratification of this agreement. The committee unanimously supported it yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, one minute out of the voting procedure. The national deputy Yavorowski. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Of course, we must vote and ratify this document, it is absolutely necessary. I just want to remind you that our Blackwater hearings tend to be about social protection. That's fair. But I think there's a need to talk about technical issues. Because you remember the episode, when a piece of this Hide came down in the middle of the winter, you know that. The Chernobyl station -- I know this because I led the commission of inquiry for the causes of the Chernobyl disaster -- that the Chernobyl station was built criminally, on very soft, swampy soils, and it's constantly sitting. We need to build a second cover, and that's a big problem. Our nuclear science today is very poor, scientists have run abroad, some have bought something like that. Because of us as a state, as a new Ukrainian state, today, we certainly need to pay attention to this and talk publicly about the problems that are now both from "Hidden" and those temporary so-called.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, why don't we finish this discussion with a reduced procedure? Is that a question? Dear colleagues, give me one minute. A party of regions and a company in one minute, please, on this issue. On the other hand, I'll turn off the microphone. On the other hand, we're going to have a vote -- and I'm going to be able to speak on another issue. Because the issue of Chernobyl's nuclear power plant is being discussed. Dear colleagues, according to procedure. After we vote, we'll vote on the procedure. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we'll finish the ratification, and I'll give it out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u52	I have a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u53	Is that a question? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Once again, I want to explain the position of our faction that we demand. We demand that we be clear about the amount of this work, who will be the contractor, what businesses will be used in Ukraine, who and what additional opportunities will be given to create jobs and other opportunities. That's what a faction of the Company requires! Why? Because we have people here who know what I'm going to say right now, who did especially humanitarian aid right after this tragedy, even started humanitarian aid and got richer. Today, they tell us what they are fighting for the people's interests with the mandate of the People's Deputy. We all know that. Therefore, I ask that we stand ready to support and defend all of this, just place the cost estimates so that the Supreme Council will know that Ukrainian enterprises will receive orders, Ukrainian enterprises will have additional jobs, wages, social programmes -- all of this will be for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, all expenses are public, and the government is willing to publish them at any time and at any request of the MP to provide all the information on this issue. So, your honor, let's vote, not invent artificial limitations for ourselves, so that we don't. Therefore, dear colleagues, we must now identify ourselves and support the draft law on ratification (No.0083). Please, Your Honor, support this project as a whole. Please vote. [[12:23:23]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we have worked very effectively towards increasing energy security and nuclear safety on our reactors, and we are helping to close the Chernobyl problem of building a new sarcophagus. At the same time, dear fellows, another very important issue is the ratification. I said we'd finish the ratification and I'll give it a shot. Alexander Sergiyovich, we will complete the ratification, and we will allow you to speak out. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm gonna take a break. We're not done. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've already taken a break. I, my dear colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! It's a very serious question. I hope all the factions are interested in strengthening Ukraine's international positions. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the People's Republic of China. It's a very important question. Dear colleagues, is there a need to listen to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I won't. Does everyone understand the importance of the question? I see. That's why. Andrew Ivanovich, please take your seats. People’s Republic of China We have very serious prospects for economic cooperation with the PRC. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to sit in the workplace. Then we'll talk. Please, dear fellows! Everybody backing up? All of them. Can we vote without discussion? We can. Thank you for your support. I'm begging you, colleagues! One vote is not enough, and then you're gonna tell me to vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please sit down for the vote. Dear colleagues, please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the People's Republic of China (Registration No. 0079). Please vote on the basis and in general. Please, dear fellows. [[12:25:32]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you all the national deputies. The factions? Well, please, by the factions. Region Party 11, Parenthood 71, Impact 24, Economic Development 29, Sovereign European Ukraine 31, Freedom 30, Ukraine 23, non-fractional 38. Thank you. Dear colleagues, last ratification. Draft Act ratifying the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the operation of rail transport. Dear colleagues, no objection to supporting without discussion? Please, Your Honor, back up. Registration number of this law 0080. I would like to remind you of the ratification of the Protocol to Amend the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on the operation of rail transport. Please, Your Honor, back up. Please vote. On the basis and in general. [[12:26:45]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I thank the Supreme Council for supporting the ratification agreements. You and I have shown that Ukraine cares about these serious issues, strengthens its international relations, and strengthens its energies. And I am very grateful to all the national MPs who have supported these questions. Dear colleagues, we have an important question. David Vazievich is already taking me very seriously. Give me a minute. Let's give it a minute. Well, ask. One minute, dear fellows. One minute to the head of the "Regions" faction of the People's Deputies of Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u56	Alexander Valentine's Day, the kind of homage that happens in Parliament today when.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u57	Please turn off the microphone when I give you my word. Turn off the microphone. I'm not gonna do that anymore. Because according to the Rules you ask for work, we work. You think I've given you my word. So you don't have to do that. So you pick the words, and you pick the words by procedure. Pick out the words. You don't get it. You give you your word, it's homage, you don't give a word. Find out what your position is. Dear colleagues, can we work on this? Please, one minute. One minute, turn on the microphone of Ephraim. Just don't pick out the words, I'll turn off the microphone again. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u58	I want to say it again. First, you do not have the right to stop and comment on the statement under the Rules. And you must obey, first of all, as an ordinary MP in the room all the rules we have in the law. You're always breaking it. You're voting for other cards here. You see it and you gloat about it. But I wanted to talk about a friend. For many years and many months, I have heard, especially on the right side of the hall, that the main thing in the State must be human and human rights. Today we have people being killed in the East of Ukraine, killed by the Turkinov team that sits here. And when we asked to stop the anti-terror operation, you pretended nothing was going on. The faction of the Party of the Regions believes that working in this situation now in the Hall is the top of hypocrisy, and we are leaving the Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! Ukraine will protect its citizens and protect its territorial integrity, like the factions of the Party of Regions or not. Dear colleagues, it's very important right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! I say again, unfortunately, today, you see, there's an attempt to act very destructively. There was an offer on the Conciliation Council to enter a joint declaration of all factions in order to disarm the criminals, free the hostages. And in that format, stop the anti-terror operation. But they're not interested in the result, or the Communists, or the faction of the Party of Regions. They're only interested in destabilizing the situation, and that's what they're working for, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, we have a very important question. I'd like you to sit down now, David Vazajevich, first. Because we have to go back, put it in the agenda. Only then can I invite you to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that this is Act 4835 amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. To hold the elections. You know how much the Russian Federation and their supporters want to overthrow the presidential elections in Ukraine. We have to do everything we can to provide them. That's why I'm going to the Hall and asking, honourable colleagues, to support inclusion in the agenda and to consider now the draft of Law 4835: amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and conduct of the electoral process. Please, Your Honor, back up. Attention! Please take your seats! Dear colleagues! Mikola Mikolaiovich, please take your seats! An important question. You're on your own for the election. People's MP Rudzkowski! Sit down, you're in favor of the presidential election! So let's support and vote now. Dear colleagues, please support inclusion in the agenda and consideration of question 4835. Please vote. [[12:32:10]] For 234 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a brief procedure to address this issue. Please be supportive. [[12:32:31]] For 206 Decision taken. David Vajayevich, please be very concise and contentious.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I will report the same law for the fifth time. But today, we need a transcript to make changes because two days of voting was not enough. Given that today, May 15, we are voting on the bill as a basis and in general, paragraph 2 and 4 of the bill need to change the word "ten" to the word "eight". And secondly, in paragraph 3 of the bill, the word "seven" should be changed by the word "five." Dear colleagues, please support this bill as a basis and as a whole. There's the conclusion of the committee, I'm the author of the bill, and there's the conclusion of the scientific department. Dear colleagues, it's very important that we have an election next week. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? We can. Thank you. David Vajaevich, please vote on the law without discussion. Please. Do you have a question for the committee head? Ask the committee head a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u63	The bill proposes to issue a district election commission and allows it to be located outside the district. Why is this being done?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, this is a war zone. Unfortunately, it's possible that terrorists will try to break the election, and that's how they do today by attacking the centres where the district election boards are located. In order to protect members of election committees, we do not rule out what will have to be done. So, dear colleagues, this is, unfortunately, the situation in which our country is located, namely in Donetsk, in the Donetsk region and in the Lugansk region. Did I answer the question? Answered. Dear colleagues, please, the very important question is to support and vote. Please, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. [[12:35:03]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. It's a very important question to protect the results of the elections and to ensure their organization. I am convinced that the election of the President of Ukraine will take place democratically, transparently, honestly. Dear colleagues, the following question is the draft Law (4772) amending the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. We took him in, put him in the daytime. And now Valery Anatolyovich Golovko. Do we have a room? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u65	There is a proposal to vote without discussion. You're in a fighting mood, my dear colleagues, I see. Okay. When there are no questions about this law, please, dear colleagues, 4772. There is a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. Please, Your Honor, back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u66	On the basis and in general. [[12:36:10]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Parenthood – 78, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 4, Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 32.0 – Company, non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this is a question related to the organization of the work of the national deputies. And I wonder why some factions don't support these issues. I see an arm, and I understand the suggestion of the head of the profile committee that on the first reading you accept, yes or no? In the first reading, can we accept the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u67	Makeup, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexander Valentinovich, are talking about organizing the work of the national deputies. Believe me, the committee supported it unanimously. Here, I know, we haven't been able to vote on the request to return to this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, this is about compensation for housing and transportation. It's for your work, for our work, it's very, very important. Because we're going to vote against each other? This improves the work of the public defender. I call on all nationals to support this important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, is it necessary to vote again? National MP Mishchenka, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u72	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! I understand that it is important for us to have the Act on the provision of the activities of the National MP, for our activity, from the very beginning. Now look what's at the end, what we're not going to get to today, are inheritance laws, for people. Do you understand? For us, we have the first laws and the inheritance is at the end. Alexander Valentinovich, how long can we cheat on each other?Oh, my God! All factions agree on this. The Justice Department has agreed. For ourselves, we do -- first of all, for people -- at the very end that we're not going to get to today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the National MP Mishchenka not to cross the line. I also asked the secretariat: Why were these two laws put to the end? Because the table is not ready. As soon as the table is ready, we'll move them up. So, my dear fellows, you will organize your work, including, and then you will criticize the organization of the work of the entire Parliament. So once again, I want to say 6 is going to have a table ready -- I'm going to put the law up right now. Please work. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. Two options: Go back to the vote and in general or in the first reading accept? Come back. Let's experiment. Please return to the vote on Law 4772. Please vote. [[12:39:36]] For 203 Za - 203 did not return, and no decision was taken. The factions, please. 1 – Party of Regions, 80 – Fatherland, 32 – Impact, 30 – Economic Development, 2 – Sovereign European Ukraine. I don't understand the position. Well, a wealthy faction, of course, yes. 32 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 26. Dear colleagues, once again I would like to say according to the Law by inheritance, etc. I repeat, there will be a table ready, the secretariat will give me confirmation, I can put it to the vote right now. And it's not necessary, once again, to replace the underdevelopment with the organization of Parliament's work. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u74	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I'm actually surprised at the position of one of the coalition factions that voted for the bill. Well, look! Today, about a dozen people in accounting are doing checks. Well, please ask the Supreme Council apparatus how much it costs to do that. The so - called monetaryization of all compensations is proposed, which is applied in exactly the same way as the funds for the exercise of parliamentary powers. So this is the rationalization of those costs and the reduction of the apparatus. Well, what might be the point of this project? Let's vote it out, at least on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u75	Turn on the microphone for the MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Let's just say that when all of Ukraine looks like a penny to put on and wear an army, when people don't get salaries and pensions, we're giving 15 grand to the people's deputies' housing, we're giving transportation money, let's do it in the end. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, dear fellows, let's finally listen to the position of the common people. Let's not speculate on that. Alexander Valentinovich, this question needs to be removed from the message of the day and we don't need to go back to that question. There are high wages, let us go along with the people to experience the difficulties that Ukraine has.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I'd like us to, you know, not speculate very much on problems that are visual, and we don't need to, you know, turn false populism into a farce, by the way. Because it's not the housing of the national deputies, it's the hotel where there are MPs who don't have the opportunity, Mr. Mikolo, to buy an apartment in Kiev because they live exclusively for their wages. And that's why we're talking about paying the hotel for the deputies who are chosen from the regions. I'm sorry, if we don't solve these issues, we're going to have some kyans sitting in Parliament soon. So I'm asking you, fellow dignitaries, let's do without cynicism and without, you know, disrespect for colleagues who came from the regions and who have no opportunity to buy apartments in Kiev, and live, like everyone else, in the countries of the world, in hotels. So, dear fellows, please, let's say that we take our emotions off, we take our emotions off. And it's not right for us, you know, to get the whole country's attention that we can't solve the basic technical issues here. So there will be a willingness in Parliament to vote on this law -- I'll go back to it. Let's be ready, let's not do populism or self-criticism right now, but work under the Rules. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm putting off, yeah, I said I'm putting off this law, I'm not going to overwhelm and give myself the opportunity to plough over myself. Dear colleagues, the next question, the next cluster of issues, is the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for the functioning of the State Land Bank) and so on. Dear colleagues, can we put the time savings in order of the day? Can we? We can try "trying is not torture." Dear colleagues, please. No, we can't, we can't. Well, when one faction says we can't, I won't have votes, so let's waste time and go through each law separately. Dear colleagues, the first to be included in the agenda of the day session is 4784: draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the functioning of the State Land Bank). Is there a question to this law? I won't. Please support the inclusion of it in the order of the day session. Please vote. [[12:45:05]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 76, Vitalia Klicka – 27, Economic Development – 30, Sovereign European Ukraine – 1, Freedom – 31, Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Next question. Please, National Deputy Sobolev. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u78	Fatherland, Sobolev. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about in this bill? The destruction of the corruption scheme that the Yanukovich family instituted through the Earth Bank when people would be deprived of land and would then be reselled to their people. I have an offer. Since this project is not included, then add a protocol commission to the government, do everything possible to make this rule not work, otherwise we will lose all land resources through these schemes dirty. There's an opportunity to do this through government decisions, I think it'll be the only way to block these dirty schemes of trade in land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-15-m0.u79	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, can we go back? I'm referring to "North European Ukraine," so we can go back because you're not voting for this law? Faction management, wave my hand. "North European Ukraine," can we vote or not? Let's give it a try, I'll put it again on the vote and see what the result is. Please include the order of the daily draft of Law 4784. Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[12:47:05]] For-183 No, there is no desire in Parliament to support the fight against corruption. 183 votes of the people's deputies, no decision taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 77 – Fatherland, 28 – Impact, 29 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0.31 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues! Next question is the draft Law on the Cooperation of Territorial Communities (4756), National Deputy Zwania, himself absent, by the way, now in the Hall, I don't understand why. Please, Your Honor, please determine whether to keep it in the agenda. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:48:02]] For-179 Dear colleagues! "To" is 179. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The region's 60. Sorry, Party of Regions - 0.67 - Fatherland, Impact - 27.29 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 2, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 22. Dear colleagues! I understand that there is some position in the "North European Ukraine" faction. I, my colleagues, propose to do as follows. Colleagues, pay attention! So that we don't be tripping each other into a failed decision by parliament right now, I suggest we take a four-hour break and gather the leaders of the MP factions and coalitions right now. Is there no objection? If there is a desire for nonfractional representatives, some position, please also be ready to talk to you. Please. A break of 16 hours is announced. Leaders of the MP factions, the coalitions, please meet at the Supreme Council.
