ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We begin the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask all the deputies to enter the session room, and, the Secretariat, please make an appropriate announcement. And we, the honourable colleagues, let's start with a law around which there were many proposals, there were many initiatives, and from which a working group of the Supreme Council was created to support its preparation. This is a draft law on the restructuring of foreign currency debt into Ukraine’s national currency, the bracelet. Dear colleagues, I ask that we have four alternative laws and two laws that are also related to this issue, and I would ask that we support it now. I remember everything so that we can now support a simplified procedure to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, calm down, please! I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please be supportive. Please, 4185. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to stop the Council system, please, not all the national MPs have figured out what to do with the buttons. Please take your seats. I repeat that we are now considering the draft Law on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities into Ukraine's national currency, the bracelet. Then let's move on to energy issues, to Nakrad's election, and so on. People's deputies, please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[16:07:59]] For-146 Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you again. Today, the order of the day involves a very large number of important issues. Now we'd like to take a look at these issues in the session room today. I'll remind you that in two weeks we're the only ones meeting for the next session. That's why I'm addressing all the national MPs again. Please do not ignore your duties and vote. I would like to ask for a summary of this matter, please vote. [[16:08:43]] For-164 Decision taken. Please welcome the first deputy head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Kayda Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished fellow MPs! Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You remember, for about a month now, the Supreme Council has been plagued by members of the community, namely, monetary lenders. Which, let's say, the share of the will became hostages to those huge economic shocks in the state when they were taking foreign exchange loans at 5.05, now the rate is 12. And this huge difference is burdened on the shoulders of the middle class primarily by the Ukrainian state. For almost a month, a working group was working on a bill that could satisfy all the parties, both the lenders and the commercial banks, as well as the state in the person of the National Bank and the State Budget of Ukraine. The bill was proposed by a working group of 4185a. The working group involved all interested parties, including representatives of lenders, associations of banks, representatives of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the National Deputies, worked intensively during the last month. It is clear from the outset that it is not possible to invent a system that will fully satisfy borrowers, commercial banks, and the state in principle. So we pursued a more real goal: to develop a way to solve a problem that would reduce excessive burden on conscientious borrowers, allowing them to pay off their debts. At the same time, the banking system has an even though.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u4	Please, let me finish. Let's get a little more intense.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u5	But keep it steady. And in times of crisis and lack of funds, even for the most urgent needs, the state took some of the responsibility of spending on itself without losing any further cooperation with international financial institutions. The proposed bill is very compromising, and large costs lie on all participants in the process because there is a certain part of each one’s responsibility. So the next system is proposed. A citizen of Ukraine -- a natural person who took a consumer loan in a foreign currency for virtually any purpose other than entrepreneurship -- can restructure one such loan, the principal amount of which, as of 1 January 2014, in the equivalent does not exceed one and a half million dollars at the official rate of Nutzbank at the date of signing the consumer loan contract, even if this loan was transferred by the bank to a factoring or collector's company. The debt balance is converted into a bracelet at the rate of 1 January 2014 and is restructured below 16.5 percent of the year-olds. By the way, this amount is, we've recalculated, and, most likely, if it's approved on the first reading of this project, it's going to decrease so that our borrowers don't overpay for their loans. I'm probably not going to go into the details of this bill, it's in everyone's hands, everyone had the opportunity to participate in the discussion, in the drafting of the bill. After the registration of Bill 4185a, there were three other alternative bills that were handed out to you as well, handing out comparative tables of both pluses and minuses, of either bill. And the tables that are given out are actually going to cost the borrowers, the negatives that the banks might get. But once again, you can't find a universal bill that would satisfy all parties. And so yesterday, at a meeting of the committee of profile, all of these four bills were considered, and they suggested that today they be brought to the Supreme Council for consideration. And I'm going to ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to conduct a rating vote on these bills. And after we see what kind of bill will get the largest number of votes, and then put it on the ground and vote in the first reading, so that we can then make changes in the bill: either reduce interest rates, or look at other preferences. I think he'll give the same word to the authors of other bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u6	Please, Alexi Petrovich, we're out of time, three hours. Please. Thank you. It's a good word. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to follow the rules, please don't let me go on. The word is given to the national deputy of Rudekovsky Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u7	Alexander Valentinovich, I ask five minutes -- just like the previous speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u8	I'm afraid I can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u9	Alexander Valentine's Day means you can't do it in two hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u10	You're wasting more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u11	So, honourable national MPs, here I am holding a photo of a woman who took a loan in one of the Ukrainian banks -- $46,000. It was accounted for by 13,000 insurance companies. After she paid $20,000, she was fined $166,000. She paid $20,000. Two sons took her to the army, now they're in the ATO zone. They took the apartment, she's living in the basement right now. Sons have 70 percent of the money they collect from the credit card in order to pay off that debt. So, honourable colleagues, the bill I'm reporting, 4185a, it's designed by borrowers to take into account all the problems that exist and in relation to those people who took credit and couldn't handle their loans by 12 percent, and in terms of those who took the apartments that they paid for 50.70 percent, they sold at no cost. By the way, she's a brilliant example. They took it. Dali-46, sold for 19, 20 she paid and another 30,000. That's how it's proposed in this law. First of all, write down all the pennies that were going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u12	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u13	write down a penny. The second question. Alexander Valentine's Day, with this bill, the lenders went to your offer, compromised, they took part in it. So they're proposing under this law it's not going to be 5.05, it's going to be 6.5. The bill reported by the previous speaker is 8. If you stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u14	Got the offer, got it. Please be the next speaker. I want to say again, besides you, there are three other laws. Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u15	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I don't think we can press the situation now and try to pry into this, because it's still hot, and it's artificially speculating on these things. That's the way to get people in here. It's a provocation of the situation, completely unnecessary and so forth. This is a bill that I have tabled, which is a bill that is harmonized, together with the National Bank, the Association of Banks of Ukraine, and also agreed with the International Monetary Fund and part of those investors, which included the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The point of the bill is, I think, in principle, the main ones, I'll give you permission to speak now. “The restructuring of the loan liabilities is carried out by amending the contracts that provide for: the recalculation of outstanding liabilities at the official rate set at the date of the restructuring. The payment for the use of the loan after the recalculation is set to the end of the contract with changes in the size of the fixed interest rate that operated at the time of the restructuring. The amount of the monthly payment for the rescheduled liabilities may not exceed the monthly payment for such a loan until its restructuring, calculated at the official rate of the foreign currency bracelet, as set at 01.01.2014. Part of the borrower’s liabilities, defined as the difference between the amount of the loan liability at the date of the restructuring, calculated at the official rate in the foreign currency bracelet set at the date of the restructuring and. the debt entered into the bond at the official rate of the foreign currency money set at 01.01.2014 is payable by the borrower to the final payment on the loan payment schedule. Such obligations of the borrower may be forgiven by the bank under conditions and in accordance with the arrangements set out in the change agreement. The bill also provides for the repayment of a foreign currency loan secured by a mortgage at the expense of the borrower’s mortgage. This transfer is the reason for the end of commitments."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u16	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u17	Please, Your Honor, consider this to be the basis for compromise. Of course, many people are not satisfied with it, not just here in the session room. But on the other hand, it seems to me that we need to take these circumstances into account, which we are now in very strict cooperation with the International Monetary Background. And if we go to populist, unthinkable decisions, it could be a serious threat to the International Monetary Fund in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u18	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Opanaschenko. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! We're going back to the bill, the next one. Why? Because government promises to create a group and to work do not produce any results. And those bills that the people's MP Rudzkowski has been introducing are already coming and changing for improvements to the banks themselves, and the rates are increasing, let's say interest payments. I'm proposing, and I'm introducing, the 4185a-3 bill is the original bill that people have proposed. It's heavy, it's really, let's say, hard to accomplish. But why did I bring it? How many working groups were assembled was the abuse of the national MPs. We don't hear or count what the problem is, who makes up for this difference: is it by people, or by banks, or by the state, or is it a solid responsibility shared among all? It was suggested to be distributed between all three sides, but unfortunately this did not happen. So my suggestion was to make it in the way that his people needed it and to accept it in the first reading. I'm asking everyone, because it's really a very important bill for people. And then banks along with us, with the people's deputies, I'm sure they'll work out a bill that can ensure the balance and security of the banking system. If we don't accept it, we're going to be looking at these bills for another month and people are going to have to accept it for another month. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u20	Thank you, Mikhail Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for two for two, two against. Yes, it is. Please, National Deputy Jeremeyev, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u21	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We have dealt with this issue on more than one occasion. We know very well with you that today the Ukrainian people are dependent on the inability of the authorities to carry out economic reforms, on the financial and economic crises, on the shocks that exist in Ukraine today. And we have to look at this at this angle to help solve these problems -- the dependency of those loans -- to people who don't have any income and who can't cover currency loans. Our "Northern European Ukraine" faction proposes to hold a rating vote and then vote in favour of the bill that will win the most votes. And so we're going to show that we're the Supreme Council that cares about the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u22	Please, National Deputy Osaulenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u24	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u25	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! When I reported on the position of the Supreme Council committee, I expressed my position to practically all the deputies who were on the committee. But at the same time, I noted that none of these four bills were perfect. Clearly, we can go to the rostrum, beat ourselves in the chest, tear our shirts off, and talk about how we love the Ukrainian people, suspecting that there might be parliamentary elections in the fall. And the more we talk about it, the more we pour honey on the breast of the disadvantaged people, the more we get the ball. I've offered a compromise, once again, to conduct a rating vote on all four bills, to identify the one who will most gain, vote on the basis, work on this bill, taking all sides into account. Because it can be said that it is not only 5.05 that loans can be given or paid. You could say 3, or you could say 2, or why not? But understanding that in doing so, we will probably take or steal from the state budget the funds that should be earmarked for the salaries of budgeters and pensioners. So I suggest that we not do populism but adopt realistic things. Yes, they probably won't like either one side or the other. But our task as parliamentarians is to make sure that it is as good for the Ukrainian people as it is for the Ukrainian State, so that this state can first provide for the protection of our citizens. I suggest we re-vote and determine the best bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u26	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u27	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, of course, the faction of the Party of the Regions will not stand away from the problem of restructuring the credit liabilities expressed in foreign currency into the national currency of Ukraine. We also support the proposal made by representatives of the parliamentary coalition to conduct a rating vote. With regard to the faction of the Party of the Regions, we note the need to be guided by sound economic thinking. Economic volunteerism in this issue is not reasonable and is not balanced because it is a financial banking system, it is very fragile in this case. It has to be noted that it is a very responsible task to translate the total blame on the restructuring of any monetary credit obligation that exists in citizens, natural or legal persons to banking institutions and, accordingly, to transfer the credit institution debt that has been set aside is not balanced and economically appropriate. Why? Because banks actually act as intermediaries between participating capital in the form of deposits and given capital in the form of corresponding loans. Accordingly, the bank will not be able to bear the full burden of corresponding responsibility for the devaluation of the national currency. The faction of the Party of the Regions is in favour of supporting an alternative bill registered by Kniazewicz on the restructuring of foreign currency debt into a purse. Why? Because it was really worked in close cooperation with representatives of the National Bank of Ukraine and the broad circles represented by the Association of Banking Institutions. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the financial resource that was used by the effective authorities, in particular, could have been aimed at resolving the restructuring of the credit liabilities in question, and I am talking about the refinancing of banks, which has been misused, ineffective. Some of the banks owned by the authorities received more than 20 percent of the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u28	Dear colleagues! Thank you. One minute at a time. Please, National Deputy Kugel. From place to place. Dear colleagues, I beg you, I will not give a speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry. Alexander Volodymyr, I'm sorry, I missed Mikhailenko, the National MP, the Company. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u29	Thank you. Please pass the word to Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u30	Please. All by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u31	Dear voters, those who can hear us, and those who now have great hope, perhaps even more anxious to see what is happening in the session hall the next round of the unequal struggle of slaves and slave owners! Because the slave owners are the owners of 200 banks, and the representatives of each of them are here in the session hall, and the slaves are tens of millions of citizens who are constantly suffering from banks. We're looking at one problem right now, but let's look at it a little bit wider. Can you tell me whether a banker hanged himself or died because he didn't give up the money he borrowed from the citizens? He borrowed it, not from him, but he borrowed it. Somebody hanged? None. And if a citizen took a bank out of it and wants to make a living, unfortunately, there are so many tragic cases that come out of life. That's the problem, I repeat! Regrettably, the capital will never give way to resentment. He's going to put it on his knees and even worse, the millions who feed these banks and who are largely feeding and financing the state. And if this situation continues, there will be no trust in banks and no financing for the development of the state. What's relevant to specific bills. You can put it on and let's put it on the beep, but there's one "but." Those waiting for us to make decisions said that if we didn't vote, and our communication showed that the 4185a-1 bill was nothing else.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u32	Please, one minute. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, very brief terms, so pay attention. The first bill is 4185a, which cannot be voted on, because it almost halves the conditions that monetary lenders pay today. If you take it, today it pays 7,000,300 dollars a month, it's going to be 10,000, 700 dollars a month. Rudzkowski’s law can be taken in the first reading. The Knazević law - please pay attention to who is proposing - this is a freeze on today's situation. Because the exchange rate is 12 dollars, like today, and the interest rate is what they're paying now. So it's not a change of situation, it's a change of law. And the Opanaschenka project can also be read in the first reading. I support the authors, get them in the first reading. And only after that will Natzbank and Minfin start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u34	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, just from the spot, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you from all those who are facing a credit problem today. I'm talking to you and I want to apologize for the situation that happened on Tuesday. Dear colleagues, there were peaceful protestors under Parliament. The people who paid for the camouflage with the oaks, including the peaceful protestors, did not release the people’s deputies. In order to discredit the national protest. One of the women suffered from a grenade explosion, from protestors. Dear colleagues! That law I reported is not my law. It's a law prepared by the borrowers to compromise what Alexander Valentinovich said, to divide into three parts. They took their share. They're going to pay 6.5, which is a third.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, last performance. People's deputy Belkova. People's deputy Caplin supports her being given the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u37	Dear colleagues! When we worked in the working group, we did a detailed analysis of all four drafts. It's like all four bills are trying to help people. But I want to remind you that there are actually three hostages and three culprits. People are also guilty of this situation. I personally became acquainted with a number of contracts that clearly and clearly showed that their debt would result in them not being able to pay it. But bankers also took great risks and hung them on people for whom they should also be responsible. Traditionally, currency lending is very risky all over the world. And that's why we tried to count that people's help should go in such a way that they could pay the same fees they paid before 01.01.2014. In fact, the most correct law, in our view, is in the view of our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u38	Finish the law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u39	The Knazević bill. Its consequences will be almost the same as those of a specific borrower, like the Kaida bill. But it's more technically correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this important issue in accordance with the Rules. It really hurts, it needs to be solved. But I'm paying attention to the people's deputies in one position. If this is an unbalanced decision, which both the National Bank of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance will support, we will not get a result because, given the disastrous economic situation in relation to the continuation of hostilities, any draft law that is not balanced with Natzbank and Minfin will be pledged to continue the energy blockade of our country. Period. That's why we held a meeting with Nazbank, and with the participation of Minfin, and the proposal of these two important institutions, this is the support of the law of the National Deputy Knazević on the basis and on the basis of this law to work out the solution of this painful one, I emphasize, the question. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I will put to the vote in accordance with the Rules in order to register the decisions made. The only thing I am saying again, my fellow believers, is your attention to a problem that needs not to be discussed, not to be bound by populist slogans, but to be solved. And the recommendations I'm making, the request of the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine: to uphold Law 4185a-2. This is the law of the National Deputy Knazević, on the basis of which the solution can be worked out. To identify a hall, I focus on that and primarily on members of the coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit in your seats and prepare for the vote. In order for the hall to be defined as a foundation, that is, in the first reading, Bill 4185a. Please, the People's Deputy Kyle is the author. Please identify yourself as the Supreme Council on acceptance as a basis, please vote. [[16:38:13]] For-137 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 51 – Fatherland, 1 – Party of Regions, Impact – 4, 2 – Economic Development, Freedom – 33, 25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – For Peace and Stability, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. Next question. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine whether the adoption is based on Bill 4185a-1, the authorship of the People's Deputy Rudzkowski. Please vote. [[16:39:00]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Next question. Attention, Your Honor, please. The factions, please. Parenthood – 36, Party of Regions – 7, Impact – 3, Economic Development – 2, 33 – Freedom, 22 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 21 – For Peace and Stability, the Company – 20, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, the bill 4185a-2, the authorship of National Deputy Knazević Ruslan Petrovic, is being voted on. Please, Your Honor, back up. Colleagues, I'm asking for your support, and then your applause. Please vote. Let us solve this complex problem. Please vote on the basis. [[16:40:06]] For 289 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 65, Party of Regions – 55, Impact – 35, 39 – Economic Development, 33 – Freedom, 32 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – the Company – 0.34 are non-fractional. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for an accelerated procedure to vote on this issue because many of our citizens are waiting for it. Please support the expedited procedure for dealing with this matter. To the decision of the hall. Please vote. Preparations for this matter, please. [[16:40:50]] For 221 The decision is not taken. There'll be a full-time review, preparation, sorry, that's the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again? Okay. Once again, I'm asking questions about the vote on the abbreviated one, for the brief procedure for preparing this issue for the second reading. Please, colleagues, yes or no, by way of a vote. Please vote. [[16:41:29]] For-200 The decision is not taken. This project will be prepared in accordance with the full procedure set out in the Rules. The only thing I'm asking is the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the working group that worked on this law, as well as the professional committee very carefully and responsibly to prepare for the second reading of this law. I beg of you, Your Honor, let's do this. As soon as the law is ready, we will set it up immediately so that the hall can determine itself by adopting it as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. You have noticed that in the morning we have here distinguished representatives who are sitting in one of the beds of the Supreme Council. These are candidates who claim to be members of the National Council for Television and Radio. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 20, of the Constitution of Ukraine and articles 4.5 of the National Council of Ukraine Act on Television and Broadcasting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the election of members of the National Council for Television and Radio. The National Council consists of 8 persons, four of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council, the 4th President. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask that we be able to address this issue. I would like to remind you that the honorary colleagues who took part in the competition are now going to be the head of the committee on the subject of freedom of speech by Mikola Tomenko in detail. But I'm reminding you that there's been a competition in which we have 16 candidates for this high office. In accordance with the requirements of current legislation, we will now, once the head of the committee of profile has spoken, conduct a rating vote. And it is those four candidates who will receive the largest number of votes that will be offered again by the Supreme Council in order to determine their final election. Do you understand the procedure? Got it. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please elaborate on this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, let's be careful, this is a fundamental question, because this is an extremely large number of deputies from different non-fractional factions who have been focusing for several months on the fact that we need to create a full and working central body in the field of information policy -- the National Council on Television and Broadcasting, because the information war that is going on, the information challenges and the need for information security requires us to form a full-fledged eight of the National Council. Alexander Valentinovich said that our right is four candidates, the President's right is four candidates. In fact, we have to start this work, and the President after us is going to propose his fourth and restore the actual work of the National Council on Television and Radio. Let me remind you that we had a serious discussion with you, and as a result of this discussion, we did not approve the National Council report last year, and thus created legal preconditions to announce the competition and select new members of the National Council. I can tell you how a person who has long been engaged in the information field, that we did not have such serious and professional candidates as a member of the National Television and Radio Council in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've had 18 people filed just because of the discussion, because of the vote and through the anti-corruption commission, we have 16 candidates for the four vacant seats of members of the National Council for Television and Radio. We had a long discussion on the committee where each candidate had the opportunity to express his or her point of view. We discussed this, it was a serious public discussion. I want to inform you that the public is asking us not to think in terms of party, factional, parliamentary quotas, but to think in terms of professionalism and those who act in the interests of legislation, act in the interests of information security and act in the interests of the information policy of the Ukrainian State. I know that the Supreme Council and the deputies are in a difficult situation right now, they're breaking up between two values. Some want to vote for professionals, others want to vote for patriots. My advice as committee heads is to vote for patriotic professionals. In this way, we will be able to unite positions and form a composition of the National Council that will enable us to solve the problems that lie ahead. Once again, we have one of Alexander Valentinovich's most difficult voting procedures. Obviously, as we enjoy peace in the country and peace, we will make it easier. Because it makes life difficult for us, but we cannot move away from it. So now the Head of the Supreme Council is going to read you by the alphabet of the name of the 16 candidates for the National Council, and for each of these 16 or each one, we're going to vote. And then the Chief of the Supreme Council, depending on the rating, will be put to a final, effective vote. So every vote is important, and that means we're going to vote at least 20 times. Therefore, we need to act conscientiously and responsibly. When I praised members, candidates for the National Council, their professionalism and patriotism are confirmed by the support of the majority of 16 members of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. This means a sufficiently high authority of these members of the Nacrada. The decision of our committee is a recommendation. This does not mean that you have to act on the basis of our vote. All the materials we gave you in advance, a few weeks ago, there's this vote. So Valentine Alexanderovich, we can get to work. And once again, what I'm saying is that we have a unique opportunity to look more at the professional quality, the patriotic position, and not just to design who is closer to that faction or group when we move out. By the way, most of the people we're looking at didn't hang out with factions or groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u42	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u43	But they're being promoted by public organizations. So we go back on the list, we listen to Alexander Valentinovich, and we vote. I hope that, despite the complexity of the procedure, we will today try to form a fourth from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u44	Thank you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, for the important information. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement, especially in the buffet section of the Supreme Council, that immediately all the deputies will come to the session room in order to be able to identify themselves from an odd question. And today, under these conditions that Ukraine is in, taking into account the information war waged by the neighbouring country against Ukraine, this question is of great importance to our nation. Dear colleagues, while the MPs are sitting in their seats, you understand the procedure, it's very similar to the format "Europe." Support should be given not only to your support group but also to the support groups of your competitors. Whoever gets more votes in the first round will be considered for a successful vote. Do you understand the procedure? Got it. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Colleagues, Nestor Ivanovich, please sit down. The Shufrich National MP says he doesn't have a card where he's sitting and he's supporting Law 4185a-2, though. this has not been fixed. So I'm going to inform the Supreme Council and ask you to sit where the card works. In addition, National MP Shipko reports that he voted in favour of Bill 4185a-2, and asks for the vote. But that's just for the transcript, you know that the result of the vote is actually fixed. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Let's start the voting process. In my place, please, I will not put the same candidate twice. And I'm not going to take the point that they didn't make. Please, we work in our places. And so, I'm going to call the names, the names, the parents, and you guys, please be sure of the candidate's support. As for the candidates, my dear friends, I ask you to rise up to that candidate whose name I call so that the national MPs can see and support you. First. Mary Victorine's wedding ring.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u45	People's deputies are asked to determine how to support the vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[16:52:25]] For-162 Next challenger. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, regions – 0, Impact – 22, Economic Development – 1, Freedom – 33, 7 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 1 – Peace and Stability, IPU – 0, non-fractional – 23. The next candidate is Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine your support for Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[16:53:22]] For 254 The factions, please. Parenthood – 48, Party of Regions – 67, Impact – 37, Economic Development – 1, Freedom – 32, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – 7, Company – 0. Please, come on. Postfaction is 31. The next candidature is Greek Constantine Ivanovich. Please, Your Honor, determine whether to support this candidature by voting. Please vote. [[16:54:12]] For the 15th. Do you want the factions or not? You don't have to, yeah. Dear colleagues, the next candidate is Ilyashenko Alexander Borisovich. Dear colleagues, I would like you to decide on Ilyashenko's candidate, Alexander Borisovich, by way of a vote. Please vote. [[16:54:53]] For 217 The factions, please. Parenthood – 8, Regions – 68, Impact – 32, 32 – Economic Development, Freedom – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, Peace and Stability – 7, KPU – 19, non-fractional – 20. Next up, your honor, Kotenko Katerina Sergiyovna. Ladies and gentlemen, please decide on the support of Kotenko Catherine Sergiyivna. Please vote. [[16:55:45.]] For 203 The factions, please. Parenthood – 71, Party of Regions – 17, Impact – 37, Economic Development – 3, Freedom – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 34, Peace and Stability – 6, CPU – 0, non-fractional – 35. Next nominee, distinguished colleagues, Krainek Yuri Olegovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please decide on the support of Krajnjak Yuri Olegovich. Please vote. [[16:56:40]] For -14 The next candidature, your honor colleagues, Cotyuñska Tetjana Grigorovna. Please, colleagues, decide on the support of Cotyuinian Aunt Grigorovna's candidature. Please vote. [[16:57:13]] For-40 Next candidature, honorary colleagues, Martinjuk Rostislav Mihajlovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please decide to support Martinyuk Rostislav Mihajlovich's candidacy. Please vote. [[16:57:51]] For 203 Now, take your time. The factions, please. Parenthood – 53, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 29, 29 – Economic Development, 34 – Freedom, Sovereign European Ukraine – 33, For Peace and Stability – 0, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. Next nominee, Mikhailuta Alexander Alexandrovich. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself to support Mikhailuta Alexander Alexandrovich's candidature. Please vote. [[16:58:43]] For-29 The next candidature is Meatball Catherine Andriyevna. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself for the support of Mr. Catherine Andriyov’s candidature. Please vote. [[16:59:21]] For 238. The factions, please. Parenthood – 26, Party of Regions – 62, Impact – 24, Economic Development – 32, Freedom – 21, Sovereign European Ukraine – 34, Peace and Stability – 6, The Company – votes are gone, non-fractional – 33. Dear people's deputies, please, the next candidate is Miroshnik Rodion Valeriovich. Colleagues, please, we're not discussing this. Colleagues! We're in the voting process. Dear colleagues, we are acting in accordance with the law, according to the law, the competition and the committee have made a proposal. Please give me one minute, Lust, national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u46	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, Valery Moshenski, a fellow MP from Luhansk, a senior official, will confirm that this is a disgrace when such people are brought into the Parliament Hall. Rodion Miroshnik is the organizer of separatist Sabbaths in Lugansk, former director of the LOT Television Company, assistant to Ephraim. It was Miroshnik who directed the capture of the district television company, the capture of the district administration. Today he continues to make anti - Ukrainian Sabbaths in Lugansk. It is a disgrace to be offered to the Parliamentary Hall in such a way that all Ukrainians who love Russia more than their mother do. What would you do?Oh, my God! Take it off and don't put it to a vote! And do not discredit the Ukrainian Parliament! Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! I hereby entrust the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, with the task of examining the matter that has been violated by the People's Deputies and, in the event that there are grounds for taking action. But, dear colleagues, I am forced to act in accordance with the law. The competition took place, the committee made proposals. And that's why I'm putting you to the vote, and please be determined by the vote, by Miroshnik Rodion Valeriovich. I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[17:02:09]] For-76 The factions, please. Parenthood – 0, Party of Regions – 54, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 0, Freedom – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0, Peace and Stability – 12, KPU – 19, 2, sorry, non-factional – 1. Dear colleagues, we have the bodies to do this. Please, S.B.U., let the Henprosecutor's Office study this issue. Dear colleagues, we've drawn up a protocol. Next nominee is Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself as to the support of Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[17:03:10]] For 219 The factions, please. Parenthood – 12, 48 – Regions, 34 – Impact, Economic Development – 34, Freedom – 32, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – no votes, no votes, no votes by the Ukrainian Company, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, the next candidate is Polish Galina Alexandrovna. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself for the support of the candidate, Polish Galina Alexandrovna. Please vote. [[17:04:11]] For the 10th. "For" is 10 votes. The next candidate is Popov Tetjan Valerievna. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself for the support of Popov's Aunt Valerian. Please vote. [[17:04:46]] For-30 "For" is 30 votes. The next candidature is Sweden. Ladies and gentlemen, please decide on the support of Sweden's candidate, Alexander Alexandrovich. Please vote. [[17:05:15.]] For the 15th. "For" is 15 votes. Next candidature, and last of the candidates proposed to us, Shevchenko Taras Sergiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please identify the support of Shevchenk Taras Sergiyovich. Please vote. [[17:05:52]] For-129 "For" means 129 votes. The factions, please. 71 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 9, "Economic Development" – 0.33 – "Freedom", "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 2.1 – "For Peace and Stability", KPU – 0, non-fractional – 13. Dear colleagues, I announce those results, correct when I was wrong, which we received during the rating vote. Mary Victoria's wedding ring is 162 votes in favour. Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna is 254. Greek Constantine Ivanovich – 15. Ilyashenko Alexander Borisovich – 217. Kotenko Katerina Sergiyevna – 203. Krainjak Yuri Olegovic – 14. Katyujin Tetjana Grigorovna is 40. Martinjuk Rostislav Mihajlovich – 203. Mikhailuta Alexander Alexander – 29. Meatloaf Catherine Andriyovna – 238, Miroshnik Rodion Valeriovich – 76. Blackish Oleg Mikolaiovich – 219. Polkhovich Galina Alexandrovna – 10. Popova Tetjana Valerievna is 30 years old. Sweden Alexander Alexander – 15. Shevchenko Taras Sergiyovich – 129. Yes, dear colleagues, let's sum it up: first place is Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna, second place is Mesaskova Katerina Andriyovna, third place is Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich, and fourth place is Ilyashenko Alexander Borisovich. Dear colleagues, there's no mistake, is there? Dear colleagues, in exactly the order in which we received the result of the rating vote, I'm going to put these candidatures to the final vote of the Supreme Council. In accordance with this vote, I would like to remind you that the candidature is deemed to be elected. Calm down! The candidate is considered to have obtained more than 226 votes. As for the full vote, your honor, I'd love to, but I can't. In accordance with the National Board of Television Act, voting is held separately for each candidate. So, dear colleagues, please. Colleagues, there's, I see, negotiations going on. Please pay attention to me, Your Honor, to the Eurovision Jury. Dear colleagues, I put the names in order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. Please, I'll give you one minute to exchange. Dear colleagues, please! I'm the only one who feels like there's going to be breaks now, there's going to be arrangements, but, colleagues, we still have to adopt energy laws, we still have to vote for banks. We have questions that are serious about local self - government that we need to consider immediately. So please, dear colleagues, it took up to 16 hours to make an appointment. Dear colleagues! Please, National Deputy Shevchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! Judging by the numbers we've seen, we've got a huge risk that we can't form our four today. And that's a serious risk for the country. We're in the midst of an information war, more important than ever today, to form a four right now. So we have a proposal to take a short break to reconcile positions. If this position finds a response in the room, I think we could go to a successful vote today. And another was called: not for party quotas, as we've seen in figures, but for reasons of national interest. There are decent people there, there are representatives of the public, let's vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u49	National deputy of Matvienkov. And after that, the head of the committee, Mikola Tomenko, concludes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u50	Mariupol, the "Regions" faction. Dear colleagues! In order for there to be no games and any possible insinuation of the results of the vote, we propose, let us do as we have always done: name the alphabet. And then everything will be clear and clear. We've always voted like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u51	Dear colleagues! I don't see a fundamental difference, honestly, because actually the results match the alphabet, so just in case, except for one last name. So, dear fellows, calm down! Please turn on the microphone to the committee's head on the subject of freedom of speech for Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u52	Dear colleagues! I said there were some difficulties in voting, but the law clearly tells us what to do next. Next, the final vote for the appointment of members of the National Council takes place in the sequence defined by the previous vote for candidates. So we can't vote for the alphabet or the alphabet, but we can't vote for just four. My proposal, the vote was very clear, so to speak, the popularity and support of the candidates, I propose, and the law does not forbid us to vote for not four, but six candidates for more than 200 votes, and we hope that out of these six candidates we will choose four.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, calm down! I want to say again, we can talk in six, eight candidates in case we don't get a successful vote. Therefore, the honourable colleagues (I say again, please calm down!) In accordance with the requirements of legislation, I would ask that we do not violate it, so that no one, through the courts, can accuse you of our decision. We will act according to the law. We can't break this question, we have to get a successful vote. So I'm going to put to the vote the exact proposals that we got in the sequence that were defined by the rating vote. Please, Your Honor, we are voting now, not discussing the issue. Please, the committee head said as an expert. Please, dear fellows, sit in your places of employment, and this also applies to you. Guys, we're not discussing it, we're voting. Please. Please identify your support for Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[17:14:15]] For-153 Yes, dear colleagues, 153. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I have such a suspicion that, in fact, we cannot work out because there is no agreement between factions. I'm asking you, please, dear colleagues, let's be determined with you. I wouldn't want to now. You realize that this isn't just a promotion -- it was a competition, and then this month was actually going on, after that -- committee meeting, then Parliament definition, and so on. And now they're all going to draw just for their candidate -- and as a result, we're not going to get any results. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, in fact, the situation is really, really important, and we have a decision to make today. But to my conviction, Alexander Valentinovich, it is necessary not to limit the possibility of voting to national MPs, but to go according to the Rules by the number of votes cast. If Gerasimük gets the most, we put her first. We come to the fourth and then to the fifth and sixth in order to make it possible to support our candidates through a successful vote. Because some MPs don't vote because they didn't get to that four that you don't vote on. So at least make six obvious favorites, but if those six don't get one, you'll bet the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, please National Deputy Rudzkowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, Alexander Valentinovich, and I offer you, in order that we don't have a disturbance, let's give the highest-ranking candidates the opportunity to speak out of the rostrum, say a few words about ourselves so that we can take a more responsible approach to the vote. I guess so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u57	National Deputy Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, it seems just that this television show is pleased that we have proposed this time to the Supreme Council people who have been supported by creative associations that are venerable in television and we have just seen absolute disgrace. And it is a pity that it comes from the majority, who seem to be fighting the most for us to have order in the information field when they did not support the person simply because it was the first one on the list. And I don't think that's really how we're supposed to feel about the field today. This is no way to treat our colleagues, including Mrs. Oli Gerasimük, who, in fact, worked with us in this room and was supported and supported by the Journalists in, and supported by other associations just because it is not a party vote there today. I'm going to propose that we call it a break, get back to this vote, so that we can have a reconciliation right now, but we're getting out, really, not just from a political position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u59	Please, Deputy Martínjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u60	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues! Calm down and let's support the Head of the Supreme Council, who is absolutely clear in accordance with the National Council, Television and Radio Broadcasting Act," he said, "we're not limited to four or six candidates, we're bound by four. But when we have a signal vote, we're going to vote for the successful first four candidates for that rating. It's not excluded that it's going to be four, it's not excluded that it could be six, it's not excluded that it could all be sixteen. That's one thing. So let's support the Head and there's no disturbance here, and let's go as the law requires. And the second. If anyone wants breaks, then again, there is a standard. Write to the Head from two factions of the proposal, and he will announce a recess. And please vote for the rating, and the hall will be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u61	The People's Deputy, the Honourable Colleagues, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to understand what has happened. There were so many public discussions, there were requirements for candidates. You remember, it was called Taras Shevchenk's candidature, called Maria Barmaka, Yuri Krainjak, Oli Gerasimjuk, many here, Kostya Gritzak, many well - known people. The vote took place because of arrangements between the factions who tried to deceive each other under the blanket and under the carpet. We didn't hear them. We didn't appreciate their level of expertise. We don't understand why some people got there. To stop this, we really need to put four candidates to the vote who have won the biggest vote. If they don't pick them up, we announce a new competition, and these people have the right to retake it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, I have another offer. Let's make a decision, the next one. So before the resulting vote, I'm making a signal vote, we see -- it goes through, we put it to a vote, we're not -- we're going to go through it with a signal vote, and then you're going to be defined. Is it supported or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u64	Oh, no? Dear colleagues, I'm going to put the next candidate on the line. Dear colleagues, the next candidate is Mesaskova Katerina Andriyovna. I'd like the Supreme Council to decide, colleagues, attention! Determine how this can be supported. Please vote. [[17:20:27]] For-143 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next candidature is Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich. Members of the People's Parliament would like to be asked to determine how this can be supported. Please vote. [[17:21:01]] For 139 The decision is not taken. The next candidate is Ilyashenko Alexander Borisovich. Members of the People's Parliament would like to be asked to determine how this can be supported. [[17:21:28]] For-157. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to follow the ratings of those who won more than 200 votes. Next candidate by rating. Calm down, calm down! Two candidates received 203 votes – Catenko Katerina Sergiyovna. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself as to the support of Catenko Catherine Sergiyivna. Please vote. [[17:22:07]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The next candidature is Martinyuk Rostislav Mihajlovich. Please determine whether this candidature is supported. [[17:22:31]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any point in voting anymore. It doesn't make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer to make. We have colleagues we've been talking about today, and we've been voting for, and they've been working with us all day, and they're tired. I'd like to do it this way. We have a rating vote with you. We have a vote that, if we want the national MPs, we can call it a bell, if we want to, when we get back to that question. Attention! That's why I have the next offer. Now we're putting the risk to that question. Because I don't see the possibility of making a successful decision. And I would ask the faction leaders to consult with each other without leaving the hall. Because we have a lot of important questions, I'll remind you. And if we're willing, we can go back to that question today, or we can start with it tomorrow. When there's no deal between factions, I'll take the risk of considering all the proposals. Today? Make a deal, please. I'm not gonna be able to make voices out of you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u65	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, in order not to have a new competition, let us consider this a signal vote. Tomorrow at 9:00, if the Chief of the Supreme Council gathers us, we can hold consultations, put it to the first vote tomorrow. And it's not actually going to be a signal vote, it's going to be a fact vote. So we don't lose a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u66	Dear colleagues! Can we vote for this position? Can we? I'd like to support the proposal to consider these votes a signal. So the factions can meet and make a deal. If there's no such arrangement, we'll take the risk on this issue with you and we'll announce a new competition. Everyone, all interested deputies, and, I'm sure, all interested in supporting this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. [[17:24:58]] For 246 Decision taken. It's hard, guys, something's coming. Dear colleagues, next question. Please, we need to finish the discussion with you. Please take your seats. Guys, we're not leaving the hall, we're gonna go back to the banks. I have an energy minister, instead of fighting, let's say, northern aggressors, he's been sitting in the hall all day, not protecting the country's energy security. Let's now prove the issues that apply to energy laws. Please. Now. I remember your law. I'll try to put it in the end, too. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the return to the Special Period Act in the Fuel and Energy Complex (4117a). I would like everyone, my dear colleagues, to support the return to this issue reported by Energy Minister Sold Yuri Vasilovich. Please support any return to this question (4117a). Please vote. [[17:26:16]] For-191 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 69, Party of Regions – 0, Strike – 16, 29 – Economic Development, 32 – Freedom, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, the next question that we need to discuss while the minister is here is a reduced procedure. I ask that we now support all the questions that we will now consider in the first reading by means of a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. [[17:26:57]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next question we need to bring to the attention of Minister of Energy and the Coal Industry is Sold Yuri Vasilovich. I'm asking him to come to the rostrum. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the reform of the system of administration of the single gas transport system. You remember Prime Minister Yatzenuk's report on this. I'm asking you, dear fellows, to keep your distance. That's too much of a question. This is the security of our nation, energy security. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u67	Dear Alexander Valentine’s Day, distinguished national MPs, a very important law is proposed for your consideration, primarily related to improving the energy security of our country. First of all, what I want to say is that this is about implementing Ukraine's legislation, its energy legislation to European legislation. We made the right commitments when we joined and ratified our association with an energy, European energy society. First of all, it's about creating an independent operator from the operation of the gas transport system. I would like to point out that this is how we integrate with you into the European gas market. First of all, I would also like to say that the gas transport system itself, underground shelters, remain the property of the state. This is a lease, a concession that will be taken by an enterprise that will be created as an operator of a gas transport system. In doing so, the operation of the Single Transport System operator will be secured by an enterprise that can be either the founders and owners of an exclusive State, or a State, together with residents of the EU, the United States or the European Energy Community. Ukraine will have at least 51 percent. EU and United States gas transport system operators, members of the European gas transport network certified in accordance with European legislation, or operators of the gas transport system of the United States of America, must have the status of EU and United States residents. The main thing is that we will establish transparent non-discriminatory relations in the gas market. Such approaches are beneficial to all, both manufacturers and producers, and gas suppliers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u68	Let me finish half a minute. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u69	National MPs, based on the country's energy security at the outset, would like to see the need for a substantial modernization of the Ukrainian gas transport system, the work of the Ukrainian gas market on European transparent principles, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, a report by Martinenko Mikoli Volodymirovich, head of the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u71	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee supports Bill 4116a. The committee understands perfectly if it does not make urgent decisions about what rules gas trade will be in Ukraine, where foreign buyers of Europeans can buy it, on which border, on the western side or with Russia, how we will use the GTS to prevent the construction of the southern flow and so on. And that's why the committee supported the bill. Little is supported by the committee, not only on the basis of the bill, but in general, if, on condition, in section I, paragraph 4, subparagraph 1, and subparagraph 2, the following sentence is added: "The terms of the selection competition of the above-mentioned legal person (legal persons) and the final decision on their participation in the management subject on which the operator of the Single Transport System of Ukraine is appointed shall be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, are there willing to discuss this issue? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there is a desire to discuss this matter. Please sign up for the performance. National MP Ponomarov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Martovitcha Artur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u74	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u75	I agree that today it is necessary to establish additional powers for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the Ministry of Energy in a period of special work in the field. But only in the gas market, I'm stressing this, if authorizations are going to spread across the entire energy sector at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, we're discussing another law, we're discussing the gas transport system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u77	Please give me 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u78	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I apologize for such a little technical support. But as far as the bill is concerned, the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions is unanimous and consistent. During the functioning of the previous government, the formula for establishing a tripartite consortium was proposed: the European Union as the largest market for consumption of Russian gas, Ukraine, which owns a control package in the host entity that has a gas transport system on its balance sheet, and the Russian Federation as a supplier country. We think it's an economically unreasonable and inconsistent decision to create a two-way consortium without the participation of the exporting country. Although the European Union is restoring natural gas to us right now, everyone understands that it's a natural gas of Russian origin, it's a natural gas of Russian origin. It is absurd to ignore the interests of the supplier of this country. And I think that this policy is going to lead to us being so driven by the whole gas transport system, that at the end of the day nothing is going to transport, and at the end of the day, nothing is going to happen. And it's really an energy weapon that's still in the hands of Ukraine, but we're going to lose it eventually if we don't ignore the suppliers' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u79	People's Deputy Bublik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u80	I give the word to the Peacekeeper in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u81	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u82	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The question now raised by the sessional hall is a matter of great importance. And we don't have the right not to make mistakes -- we don't even have the right to set the wrong direction. So all the pros and all the opposites have to be expressed and heard, most importantly. Moreover, all must make the right decision because such proposals and such bills are not even put into the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine every decade. So of the dangers that have been sounded, there's actually a threat of building, of adding the South Stream to the consumer countries. And this hypothetically could deprive our gas transport system of the ability to transport. But when was the decision to build the South and the North Stream made? In 2005, you and I remember that. Russia will ignore our desire or unwillingness to build the South Stream, and we need to keep that in mind. We should bear in mind that this is our gas transportation system, the national property in which generations of Ukrainians were invested. We need to keep in mind the unique gas reservoirs in our territory. And we have to remember that more than 140 companies in Europe are involved in the gas transport system and gas supply system, working directly with Gazprom, more than 30 percent. In our view, 49 percent of private shareholders are not allowed to go into the operation of this system because the Ukrainian protection program reminds us that strategic objects are to be owned by the state. Let’s Be Watchful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u83	Thank you. People's MP Rosenko, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u84	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. It is certainly a strategic decision that we are making today, and therefore it is worth taking all the responsibility today to address this issue, and to talk about what the committee head has said, to make appropriate amendments to this bill. But on the other hand, the strike faction is certainly ready to support this bill, but we have to take into account all the commitments made within the framework of the Energy Community. This applies not only to the individual directives set out in the treaty but also to all other directives adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Energy Community. That's why impact insists that in the first part of article 1 and article 2 of the bill after the words "the agreement on the establishment of the Energy Community" should be added to the words that also take into account the decision of the Council of Ministers of the Energy Community to extend the Agreement on the Establishment of Energy Co-operation. Once again, we must fulfill all the commitments made within the framework of the Energy Society. So it will be, as it were, a complex decision and a complex responsibility of Ukraine and an understanding from the European Community that we are fully committed to. So with these remarks, the impact faction is ready to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u85	National MP Fedoruk, please. He's handing over the people's deputy to Vasjuni, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u86	Please pass the word to the expert in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, I'm very brief. Indeed, this bill is necessary for adoption, it has very many positive standards that are timely, and not only because our gas transport system needs to be modernised, but it also needs to create a balance between Gazprom and the European Society. But given that I think the bill needs to be finalized, I suggest that it be accepted only on a basis, given that it does not contain any precautionary norm on the possible non-participation of profiled Gazprom structures in the management section by 49 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u88	Please, Jeremiah, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u89	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The question of the gas transport system and the creation of a consortium is not the first time in this room. But for the first time, Ukraine as a state is on the verge of an economic war, it's happening today, and for the first time in 20 years, it's leading a real war. And today, gas contracts or pressure from the Russian Federation on Ukraine is also an economic war that wants to put us on our knees. And clearly, as national MPs, the Supreme Council should help the Cabinet of Ministers solve this issue and somehow create conditions where the price of gas can really be lowered, and most importantly, to get gas on market terms. The consortium is one of the conditions for such a possibility, but our faction will support the bill in the first reading if the following observations are included. Subparagraph 1 of paragraph 4 of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on reforming the administration of Ukraine's single gas transport system in part 4 of the first article.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u90	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u91	The Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market should be supplemented by the following sentences: "The conditions for competitive selection of the above-mentioned legal persons and the final decision on their participation in the management entity, which is subject to the functions of the operator of Ukraine's single gas transport system, shall be adopted only by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Next, paragraph 2, paragraph 4 of the draft Law in the second. To complete part 1 of paragraph 14 with the following words: "The terms of the competitive selection of the above-mentioned legal persons and the final decision on their participation in the management subject, on which the operator of underground gas storage functions, shall be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Only when every decision is made in this room, when we know who has taken part, what conditions our faction has taken part in, and what benefit will Ukraine have from participating in this consortium, will our faction support such a bill in this Supreme Council Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask that we be determined now to make this decision. More than that. Calm down, please! I appeal to the deputies who are now carrying out their constitutional duties. We have a series of five questions that we simply need to accept today. This is also true of the lenders of the bank, without whom the law we have voted will not work. This is also true of the decentralization of local self-government, Deputy Prime Minister Groisman is ready to report. This is also true of the protection of people who are in the condition of carrying out an antiterrorist operation and of several other questions, including the transfer of hearings, and so forth. Well, that's the kind of thing to do. That's why I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, not to insist on any unnecessary speeches right now. I would ask that we now identify ourselves positively on this important issue. And the questions that we might be able to consider today, and you understand why today, just to hear the reporter, we agreed on a simplified procedure, and without discussing the decision-making process. Otherwise, there's nothing we can do. It's a request, dear colleagues. In wartime, it's military work. Targeted and fired. Yes or no? So, colleagues, please take your seats now. Please, Mikola Mikolaiovich. Don't greet me, I know you respect me. Yes, thank you. So please. Colleagues, all of this applies: and non-fractional deputies, too. Please sit on your jobs and determine your support – pay attention! – in the first reading, i.e. we adopt Law No.4116a with observations and suggestions that were expressed both by the national deputy Jeremeyev and by the head of the profiling committee, Mikola Martinenko, and by the people's deputy Rosenko. Please, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nothing, Alexander Fedorovich. Please send Morse code back to me. Please, please. Please, Your Honor, support the energy security of our country. Courageously, we vote responsibly, please. [[17:44:18]] For-170. The decision is not taken. I mean, it's both unmistakable and irresponsible. The factions, please. 69 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 0, Strike – 31, 30 – Economic Development, 0 – Freedom, 26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability (sustainable name, because you have not voted for peace and stability now) – 0, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 14. So, dear fellows, we've agreed with you, now we're not supporting the government on energy security issues. Colleagues, then, when the voters come to you in the winter and say, "Why don't I have gas, no heat?" - you'll explain what you meant when you didn't vote today. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you also to continue the matter in the espresso room, as we agreed. This is true of the law that the committee has already reported 10 times and asked Energy Minister Sold to say so. We have to put it in the agenda and vote, otherwise a lot of energy companies, held companies, will just stop. It is about amending some of Ukraine's accounting laws in the fuel and energy complex (No. 4225a). Please, one minute, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I've informed you of a situation that has arisen in a fuel-energy complex. The government supports this bill, which is being introduced by the Fuel Energy Committee of the Supreme Council. First of all, it is also a matter of national energy security. Today, these things, about bankruptcy, about demanding the funds that are being used today for state-owned enterprises, about the fuel-energy complex, are actually blocking the operation of these enterprises, destabilizing them. So, please, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, 4225a is a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of calculations in the fuel and energy complex. Please, Your Honor, sit in your seats and determine by voting for inclusion in the agenda. In order of the day. Please vote. [[17:46:51]] For 271 Decision taken. That's better. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal on the basis of the whole as well. Is it supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u95	Please, vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:47:14]] For 277 Decision taken. That is, we can, when there is such a desire, honorary colleagues. Next question. We need to finish the discussion, and I'm asking you in the express regime, military, responsibly. The question is related to our loanors, who have already been working with you. We have a project that we adopted in the first reading that deals with the terms and conditions of repayment of loans. He will not work without altering the Tax Code. Because there is a tax exemption for both banks and lenders. Therefore, fellow believers need to be determined as to acceptance in the first reading. In order to have a simultaneous vote on these laws. Please, please, dear colleagues, calm down. 4186a and 4186a-1, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Practical Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities into the National Currency of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in view of what we adopted in the first reading of the draft law of Ruslan Petrovic Knazević, there is a proposal of 4186a-1, - also this author's law - to support. Because they're connected. Ruslan Petrovich, one minute. The comment is, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, the point is that we cannot but vote in favour of the previous law on the basis of not voting for it because they are bound. Accordingly, he will not work until we vote for this. For my part, I would like to sound Mr. Kayda Alexi Petrovich's position, who can publicly confirm that he is taking his bill for my own and asking for my support in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, Alexi Petrovich, who cannot see, nods his head. And I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to support the borrowers, you understand how difficult the situation is. And to support in the first reading of Law 4186a-1, so that he can be worked out along with the law that we have already voted for. 4186a-1, please. [[17:50:02]] For 212 The decision is not taken because of the unorganized, unorganized, and respected colleagues. I ask, please, fellow honourable Members, to return to this question -- and to be organized, responsible for the voting process. I'm going to the People's Deputy of Tears. Please, your voters are waiting for this law. Please vote. Please, dear fellows, let us return to this question. Vote. [[17:50:41]] For 223 Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to reexplain my position. Colleagues, it's about the borrowers. The law that we supported in the first reading won't work if we don't solve the issue of taxation, because, apart from the return of credit, they're still going to pay taxes on that loan. So let us resolve this question, fellow believers, all of this applies. I'm asking you to show the factions that we can see who's working against the borrowers. Parenthood – 67, The Party of Regions, of course, 0, Strike – 34, 33 – Economic Development, Freedom – 34, 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 1, for Peace (Working) and Stability, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, I can honestly say that the borrowers will come and I'll cover the subway. So please, dear fellows, return to this question. Come back again, please, come back. Then you'll get a minute. Let's take a look at the vote. Please come back to that question. Vote. Close the door so no one can run. [[17:52:08]] For 229 Better, but we can do even better. Dear colleagues, let's vote on the first reading. First of all, I'd like you to support me. Please, I'll show you by factions, we'll all see who's against Ukrainian citizens. Please, let's vote. [[17:52:37]] For 243 Decision taken. The factions, please. "Fatherhood" is 73 national MPs for Ukrainian citizens, the Party of Regions is only 3, the Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 37, the Economic Development – 32, Freedom – 34, the Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, the Peace and Stability – 4 National Deputies, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. I see. Yes, dear colleagues, next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Louder, I can't hear you Communists. Louder, please! Okay, fine. The following question, fellow believers, is the draft Law on the Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman is working on decentralization in the morning, which we discussed with you when we discussed the Constitution. It could have been from here. Dear colleagues, one minute! Well, did he stand for nothing? One minute. Lord, from the place, please tell us how important the law is. Please. Victor Mikhailovich, come on! Time! We can't make a decision, Victor Mikhailovich, we don't have to stop work. Please state for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, a bill on voluntary unification of local communities is being submitted to your consideration. This is one of the bills related to the reform of local self - government, and one of the problems is the fragmentation of territorial communities and the inability of communities to resolve local issues on their basis. This bill is long-awaited, it has been discussed in an expert environment, as well as agreed with bodies, associations, organs of self-organization and local self-government in Ukraine. And it envisions mechanisms and the possibility of voluntary unification of the territorial communities at their initiative. That is, no one imposes anything on anyone, but another tool is being created for such a union — to enhance the capacity of these territorial communities. So I would ask you to support this bill. He listened to the committee, supported it in the first reading. And still, I think that the best initiatives that national MPs have, they can be taken into account to make this mechanism work as well as possible. Thank you so much for your support. And this bill awaits the territorial communities of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, do we support the territorial communities? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're backing it up. Can we vote, please? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can. Communists, can we vote? "We can," the communists say. Please, Your Honor, we vote. On the foundation or on the whole? [[B in m in s a l in]] In general. Vladimir Borisovich, can we vote on the basis and in general? We can. Please, Your Honor. Okay, on the basis of that, let's try, on the basis of that, okay, please, we're voting on the basis. [[17:55:51]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, in general, I see some MPs denying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support, I think we will work with you on this committee, and if there are best wishes, we will take them into account, and we will vote. That was the decision of yesterday's committee, so I think we can prepare for the second reading there, a few weeks from now, and bring it up for consideration by the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, shall we vote in favour of a reduced procedure? Let's vote. Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[17:56:45.]] For 193 It didn't come out short: "for" is 193. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand. Please, Vladimir Borisovich, 3805 is a binding law, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u102	4069 – The Law on Principles of State Regional Policy – is also an extremely important law and long-awaited one. It's designed to take into account Europe's best practice, and it gives us the opportunity to contribute European funds to the development of regions, to the development of territories. Today, 55 million euros have been reserved for the implementation of national regional policy. These are the costs that will come to cities, villages and villages for infrastructure projects. And that's just going to be the beginning. The principle is that there should be an absolutely fair distribution system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u103	Dear colleagues! 4069a is a draft of the Law on the Principles of State Regional Policy. Shall we? Ladies and gentlemen, please! On the basis that we work in this format on the basis that the committee can work on it. Please, Your Honor, 4069a as a base. Please support the draft Law on the Principles of State and Regional Policy. Please vote. [[17:58:21]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Can we? Let's go back to that question. Please, let's go back to this question, please, come on, the regions need to be supported. Please, Your Honor, please support the region, let's go back to this question. Please vote. [[17:58:55]] For 226 There's 226 on the border. Dear colleagues! We're back. [[Applause]] Now we need to improve the result. I beg you, fellow Members, let's see who hasn't yet voted, please support the region, please vote for the basis, that is, in the first reading. Please vote 4069a now. Of course, the interests of Donbas and the Luhansk region are all included. [[17:59:26]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the profile committee, whose profile is the issue of national security and defence, the issue of the security of our country in the 21st century, the request for a hearing. Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina. We don't have time for a parliamentary term. Please turn on the microphone for one minute. We need to vote for Donetsk and Lugansk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u104	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! You and I have decided to hold parliamentary hearings, but we have not set a date. We fixed July of the month. Given that we have made changes to the calendar of the session, the proposal is to make a decision on a specific date for parliamentary hearings: it is suggested that they be held on the plenary week when we work here, not in the districts, but on the ground. The corresponding draft of the decree is given. This is registration number 4231a, and the proposal to hold these hearings on July 23, 2014, at 3 p.m. in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I ask you a technical question, but the important question is, we need to set a date. We actually confirmed the graph with you, let's support Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin's proposal for an event. on the date of the hearing. Please, July 23, 2014 at 3 p.m., so no one is late. Please, Your Honor, support me. Please vote. [[18:01:20]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have to continue our work for 15 minutes because it's a very important question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ten minutes, okay, ten minutes. Dear colleagues, pay attention! The law to be supported was approached by representatives from Donetsk, Luhansk. It's the Law that we've included in the agenda (4188a) on the moratorium on forced housing implementation, the forced disconnection from the housing services network, the prohibition of billing and the delaying of pennies and other penalty payments for residential services by citizens living in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation in Donetsk, Lugansk. Dear colleagues, on the basis of a request to support and then a reduced procedure, this is an important issue. Please, I know you support too. Please support this project on the basis. Please vote. [[18:02:25]] For-300 Decision taken. Thank you. You see, we can, we still have the possibility, yes or no, to vote on the Constitution? Is it not? No, they say we won't today. Okay. Dear colleagues, for a reduced procedure, let's do it for a reduced procedure. Colleagues, as a whole, have to work out a law so that no one can get past it. Please. We voted the law, we voted the law. Now. Dear colleagues, for the summary of this matter, please support. [[18:03:08]] For 291 Decision taken. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I ask the committee to prepare this law along with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, now, I see everyone. You see, the last few minutes are as much of a desire to work. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u106	Shall we continue for an hour? [[Noise Nodes]] You see, like you. Dear colleagues. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević. You see how he pulls his hand. Let's not be able to vote on a law that is vital to public organizations of disabled people and veterans. This is about the Law (No. 3225) on Public Associations. One minute, Valery Suškević, distinguished colleagues. And let's support our disabled, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, yesterday all factions supported this bill, which provides for the activities of all Ukrainian social organizations of disabled persons, veterans, pensioners, cultural, environmental, sports. This is a bill that applies to all civil society. I ask just now to return to the vote and support our civil society in order to ensure the status of the legal person of the regional organizations, the all-Ukrainian social organizations. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u108	Dear colleagues! Can we back it up? We can. We can. Yes, dear colleagues, I can't hear you, louder. Honorable colleagues, government, respected colleagues, the government says the issue is not agreed with him. Excuse me, excuse me. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you, Valery Mikhailovich, please agree with the government. Because now, you see how nervous the government is? Please, dear fellows, come on. I thought you said the issue was settled, and the government said it wasn't agreed. So I'd like to reconcile this question. And I'll put it up, I can put it to the vote tomorrow. But please work with the government during this day. Please, dear fellows. The Committee on Education and Science called. Now, Lilia Mikhailovna, out of place. What are you talking about, fellow officers of honor? It's about our students, our teachers, our graduate students. Act 4889. It's a very simple question. First. This law, and Lilia Mikhailna confirms, clearly states that students who are postgraduates of the eye form of education do not call on the army. To confirm this position clearly. And the second question. This is true of those who voluntarily joined the Armed Forces. These include both a place of study and a place of work. Can we support such an offer? Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u109	Now, under the transcript, I need to make a technical amendment to this project, namely: please, in chapter 3, paragraph 2, "To the End and the Transitional," replace the word "provided by this law" with the word "amendments provided for in chapter I of this law." Please support, this is a very important bill for all areas of education that. And I'm asking you to support not just the foundation, but the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-03-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, may we vote? Students, postgraduates, you know. Well, this is the scientific base of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, in the government there, please calm down! Dear colleagues, calm down! Colleagues, please support Law 4889 as a whole. Please vote. With the correction of Lilia Greenevich. Please. Let's protect, support the students, the postgraduates, the scientific leaders. [[18:07:18]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in principle, we've worked out time with you, I think, very effectively. If only we had worked as we did in the finals all day, we would have considered the whole agenda with you. I thank the distinguished people's deputies. The Supreme Council will resume its work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you.
