ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit in your seats. The Supreme Council is continuing its work. If you would like to invite all the national deputies into the hall, we will not only discuss matters with you but also make decisions about them. I'll remind you, we're considering the legislative acts in the first reading and I'm asking, honourable colleagues, let's check the willingness of the national deputies to vote. Please include the "Council" system, so that we can see the presence of people's deputies ready to make responsible decisions. Please, please. [[16:10:27]] There are 309 national deputies in the hall. The Supreme Council continues its work. Dear colleagues, we are considering draft Law 3452 – this is a draft Act amending article 120 of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code. Please come to Victor Vladimirovich Butkowski's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by the Ukrainian bill amending article 120 of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code (for payment of benefits and municipal services). The purpose of adopting this bill is to renew the benefits from the payment of municipal services to persons released from the State Fire Protection Service, which were provided for by the Ukrainian Fire Safety Act, namely: Article 22 of this Act provides for 50 per cent of the reduction in housing, public utilities, and fuel for persons released from the State Fire Protection Service after age, because of sickness or after years of service. The bill provides for the provision of benefits to parents and their family members. The primary component of the State Fire Department, which had died, had been lost without news while performing their duties, and had been disabled as a result of the illness. Following the entry into force of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code on Fire Safety of July 1, 2013, it was recognized that it had become invalid, which is why persons released from the State Fire Protection Service were unwarranted, I stress, deprived of social benefits. This gives rise to social tension among those noted, and numerous appeals are made to both the Supreme Council and the deputies. All members of the committee voted in favour. Taking into account the above proposal, support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's sign up for the performance. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. The word is given to the Black People's Deputy, the Strike faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u4	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u5	Please turn on Paul Rosenck’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, of course, support for such important professions and dangerous professions as, in particular, firemen, it is certainly a noble mission. But what I'm trying to say is that the spread of various benefits, of all kinds of compensations, is "path to nowhere," is that they're honored friends. It's just a bad practice that we've had since the Soviet Union, when people were paid low wages, instead of being charged a huge pile of benefits, which eventually didn't pay. We have today, think about the figure, in Ukraine about 18 million sluggers. To provide all benefits, compensation, and so forth, the State budget has to pay at least 150 - 170 billion dollars a year. So what's going on? These benefits are on fire. The income categories of the population that need support, first of all, there's the Chernobyls, the war invalids don't get the benefits, instead we just have a country of benefits. Dear friends! If you want to support a profession or a specialty, give them a normal salary. High wages are the basis of social protection for the population. Because a meager salary is a meager pension. The meager salary plus the benefits is once again the responsibility of the state for the benefits of old-age human beings. The policy of normal wages is here's the social protection of the population, And the second, of course, is life insurance, life insurance for risked professions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u7	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Chechetov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u8	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! It is a bill that makes a strong social painting. And it aims at social support for those people and members of their families who risk not only their health but also their most precious life as a result of their activities. The bill is designed for the purpose of clarifying and clarifying the circle of members of the civil and civil fire protection units and their families, who may be recognised as paying a discount for the use of housing (this apartment fee), utilities (this is water, gas, electricity, heat and other services) and fuel costs, including rare within established standards for people living in buildings without centralized combustion. The adoption of this bill will provide an opportunity to renew the benefits of the members of the military and the primary members of the State Fire Service, wages, municipal services released from service at an age, because of illness, or seniority of years. I'm talking to all the people's deputies again. In fact, we all went under social slogans. We said that we would protect, protect, to the extent possible, different categories of citizens. But I repeat, as far as those who are of their own kind are concerned. risks not only its health but also its life. The faction of the Party of the Regions requests support for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u9	People's deputy Qaeda, please, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u10	Please give the floor to the MP Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u11	Please turn on the microphone of MP Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u12	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Freedom faction clearly supports this bill because it provides for the proper protection of former members of the State Fire Department and members of their families. This is exactly 50 percent of the pay for housing, housing, and utilities. We support this, but there are a number of shortcomings in this bill. That is, the proposed new edition of article 120, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Code cannot be supported. In the implementation of which, family members, persons released from civil protection and State fire protection by age, disease, or by age, such persons became disabled in the course of their duties, will virtually be deprived of benefits from municipal services. Therefore, this rule is not in line with the constitutional provisions that prevent the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms from being narrowed down when new laws are adopted or amended, this is article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, there is a need to resolve the issue of the preservation and recovery of benefits to former members of the State Fire Protection Service, whose status is determined. a separate law that has lost effect with the adoption of the Code of Civil Protection of Ukraine, and members of their families, by supplementing with the relevant norm of its chapter 12, "The Final and Transitional Positions." So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will definitely support this bill, but we believe that before the second reading, we should work on it and support the workers of the Fire Service and thus restore justice. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us take our seats, and we have the opportunity to determine the fate of this law by voting. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and sit in your seats. And I'm putting in bill registration number 3452 on the amendment to article 120 of the Ukrainian Civil Protection Code on the payment of utility benefits, and I'm asking you to vote on the basis. Please identify yourself, Your Honor, by voting. [[16:20:09]] For 175 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please, by the factions. 35 – Party of Regions, 15 – "Fatherland", 0 – "Klicka hit", "Economic development" – 27, 13 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 33, 22 – Company and 30 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, the committee's proposal for re-reading. Can we back it up? Please, Your Honor, for the re-reading of the committee, please identify yourself. Please vote. [[16:21:08]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 37, Parenthood 43, 0 – Impact, Economic Development – 27, 19 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, 24 – Company, 31 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 2511a, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibilities in the area of the permit system. Please welcome Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning the establishment of responsibilities in the area of the permit system. The need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences for the Establishment of Responsibility in the Area of the License System is due to the lack of regulatory and legal regulation of the responsibility of owners of domestic production devices for the disposal of ammunition equipped with rubber or analogous ammunition by their properties for non-compliance with the rules and regulations established by law. Thus it is proposed or, let us put it this way, the purpose of the bill is to amend and supplement articles 190, 191, 192, 192, 193 of the Code of Administrative Violations, which provides for the responsibility of the owners of these devices to shoot down cartridges equipped with rubber or analogous metal shells for violating the order of purchase, storage, transfer or sale of such devices, as well as for violations of the rules of storage, carrying or transporting devices. Dear colleagues, we've been paying a lot of attention in this room to the disbandment of illegal military formations so that we don't have illegal weapons in our citizens or in these formations. That's one of the problems. Because you know that rubber cartridges, although they are called immortal acts, can cause great damage to your health. Hence, their owners must bear some of the responsibilities provided for in the law. And I'd like to thank the profile committee for recommending a basis. Thanks to the expert board, for the basis. And thank Minfin for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm requesting a report from the profile committee to announce the National MP of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The draft proposes that a number of articles 190, 191, and 192, 193 be introduced into the Code of Administrative Violations. It is the responsibility of the owners of domestic manufacturing devices to shoot cartridges for – and is still listed: infringement of purchase order, storage, foreclosure, sale of such devices, violation of storage rules, carrying or transporting devices, breach of registration periods, re-registrations and rules for taking these devices into account. The adoption of this bill will provide an opportunity to prevent wrongdoing in this area. That's the main thing. The position of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee of Profiles, the Committee on Legislative Protection in this matter, is exactly the same. The bill (registration number 2511a), submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Zarubinsky, recommends that the Supreme Council be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There's a need. Please sign up: two in, two in. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Kurenna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u18	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u19	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Chamber of Commerce.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u20	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, this bill provides for nonsensus. We impose restrictions and additional responsibility only with regard to the production and equipment of domestic production, everything relating to foreign production is completely out of the question. So we think it's necessary to apply levels of sanctions, create a level playing field, and first of all, we need to make sure that our army, our special forces, buy Ukrainian production, if that's the case. So the Vitalia Klicka faction insists that the bill be sent for work to create conditions for both foreign equipment production and domestic production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u22	Please pass the word to Andrey Mishchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u23	Please turn on the microphone of the Mishchenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u24	In recent months, organized terrorist pro-Russian groups have been operating in the territory of the Ukrainian State, using both military and traumatic weapons against Ukrainian citizens. According to current legislation, rubber shelling devices, despite their dangers, do not refer to firearms, pneumatics, and cold weapons. The use of them is not regulated by the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, it is appropriate to impose responsibilities at the legislative level for violations of the order of purchase, storage, violation of the rules of storage, transfer or sale of such devices. This will partially prevent and reduce the use of such weapons. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading and considers it necessary to regulate and use weapons, classifying it as a separate "Arms Act". And a separate trailer. Today there is a bill on the use of traumatic weapons. So I'm co-authoring a bill on civilian weapons. When we have terrorists in the East with weapons in our hands, supplied by the neighbouring state of Russia, scattered on the streets, terrorized the peaceful population, Ukrainian citizens cannot defend themselves. That's why we have a request: either register this bill, and then the Supreme Council will decide in this way to vote in favour of it or to remove the day-to-day Act on Trauma Weapons. Because it's not really a traumatic weapon at all. It also kills people, but it leaves no trace of crime. Instead, a different weapon leaves traces, identifying the owner of the weapon. It is a world practice. That's what Finland does, that's what Norway does, that's what Switzerland does. And accordingly, these are the most peaceful nations, and no one will want to go aggressively against these nations. And once Putin knows that there will be 30 million firearms in Ukraine, no army of the world, including him, will even think.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u25	Thank you. National MP Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u26	Dear Mr. Head, there are many different weapons on the hands of various people in Ukraine right now. We have to do everything we can to get people to give up their weapons. Second, would such a bill not become an instrument of revenge for one another? Would this bill not become a tool in the hands of, say, anti - opposition authorities or vice versa? So I think the bill is premature. And he's right. Why is it just a weapon of domestic production? And if someone has a western weapon or, say, an eastern production, what does that law not apply to him? How is this understood? I think this bill is premature today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter. Asks the author 1 minute to comment on the comments made by the national MPs. Please turn on Oleg Zarubinski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u28	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Well, I can't really comment on who, power or opposition, or opposition to power is using traumatic weapons. I don't want to comment at all. And the fundamental question is why is it written down as "domestic weapons of trauma," and because in Ukraine it's just domestic production. But I just got off the phone with my colleague, Sold out of Strike and I said you could totally delete the question of "national" or add "national and foreign production" in the second reading vote. I can now report for the transcript that I agree with. I ask you to remove this issue, and there is no point in any competition between domestic and Western producers here at all in the bill. It's completely different. The word is, traumatic weapons are dangerous weapons. And it must also fall under certain rules to ensure, above all, our unarmed citizens. That's why I'd like to take that into account, Mrs. Oksana, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed the issue and now we need to determine how to vote. I would like to ask the honourable national deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. I ask you, colleagues, to support Bill 2511a as a basis. Please decide how to vote. Turn on the "Race" system. With the refinement that Mr. Zarubinski called. [[16:31:48]] For 230 Decision taken. Please elaborate on the second reading of this law. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by many deputies who require us to organize organizational matters related to hotel stays, technology, hotel services, and so forth, so as not to bankrupt the hotel industry that serves the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, this is about Law 4772. We included it in the agenda and asked the profile committee to review it quickly and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please, I invite you to the podium of Glaucoma Valerija Anatoliyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do we vote without discussion? Colleagues, there's a proposal to vote without talking about this issue, it's exclusive, I'll remind you, it's technical, all the foreign MPs know this problem. Please, Your Honor, 4772 is a bill to vote on as a basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues. [[16:33:19]] For 262 Decision taken. Colleagues, you don't have to vote for it. Now we're looking at the question (registration number 2609a). Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to ensure the safe operation of agricultural techniques). Please, National Deputy Labazük.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u30	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! For your consideration, the draft Law No. 2609 (a) amending certain laws of Ukraine (to ensure the safe operation of agricultural engineering) is proposed. The main purpose of the bill is to eliminate the mandatory technicality of agriculture. To keep the technology in proper condition, the bill proposes to increase administrative responsibility for its safe use. I remind you that car maintenance was canceled more than two years ago, and today the mandatory technical control of agriculture is a fundamental formalism and a new corruption scheme. Because the actual technology is not being carried out, it all boils down to the payment of the corresponding accounts and the receipt of the appropriate help. The technology is carried out only by private companies that install unwarranted tariffs, the smallest price per tractor of 140 bracelets in Volinsk region, up to 220 bracelets – in Poltavska. And this money goes to private pockets, not the State Budget. On March 14, Minister Igor Schweik of the Ministry of Commerce publicly stated that there was a need for a change of technology. In addition, dozens of appeals were received by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the village and village councils, asking them to cancel the use of the agricultural technology. The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee also unanimously supported the bill. Unfortunately, the agrarian committee is not the main committee, and unfortunately, the Main Committee, namely, the Committee on Legislative Protection, has decided to return the bill to work. But I want to explain to the deputies the circumstances that led to the decision of the committee. With strong criticism of the abolition of the agricultural technology as a corruption scheme, the first deputy committee chairman to flee the country today with his father. The mayor then wrote a positive conclusion to this bill, but then he rewrote the conclusion to the negative because he was instructed by the government's leadership to bury the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u31	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u32	At the request of the authors, the new minister of agro-industrial development prepared a new expert opinion supporting the idea of a bill. So I ask you, honourable Members, to pay attention to all the circumstances and not to repeat the mistakes of past power and eventually to cancel one of the corruption schemes in agriculture. People will thank you for that. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u33	Please, from the profile committee, National MP Zurawsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u34	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! The authors of the Ukrainian Laws on the System of Engineering and Technology for the Agro-industry complex of Ukraine propose to remove the rule on State technical inspection of agricultural machinery. In addition, article 35 of the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act proposes to amend the list of means of transport that are not subject to mandatory technical control. These are, in particular, tractors, self-propelled road construction and melioration machines, agricultural equipment, and other machinery. The main scientific and expert office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine are proposing to send a bill for further work. Having examined the bill, the committee notes that it is premature to remove the necessary technical review of the agri-industrial complex’s technical equipment without the introduction of an alternative mechanism at the same time. The Committee on Law Enforcement suggests that the bill should be sent to the authors for further work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, I see, are eager to discuss this issue. Please sign up. Turn on the "Race" system. People's Deputy Mosheński, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u36	Please pass the word to Jeremiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u37	Please turn on the microphone. Or from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u38	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We repeatedly talk about the need to fight corruption. You know, car technology's been canceled. To this day, only a technical examination of agricultural technology is being carried out. Four private structures are conducting a technical examination of all agricultural techniques in Ukraine. Four private structures collect from each tractor, from each combine of 200 to 300 bracelets. We urge all the MPs to vote in favour of this bill. Each major was in the village, each major saw the hands of those agricultural workers, and he understood what it meant to earn 200 dollars for them. We are talking about the fight against corruption, and we understand very well why the prosecution is putting this issue aside. Because former prosecutors had something to do with this. to these entities that issued and issued these documents. Once again we call for support for this bill, and it will be a real, concrete fight against corruption in our country -- a small step that will be felt by every villager. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Popescu. Please. He handed the word to the People’s Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u40	Thank you, sir. Vladimir Filipenko, 148 constituency, Poltavščina, Economic Development Group. What the bill proposes. First. This is an increase in administrative responsibility, and the second is the abolition of the mandatory technical review of agricultural technology, which is absolutely necessary for every farmer in our country. The Economic Development Group is absolutely in line with the theories that the rapporteur of this law has announced and that have been said here. Moreover, our group has prepared a similar bill for No. 2568a, National Deputy Kulinić, but we will vote 100 percent in favour of Bill 2609a, because it also actually deals with the same issue. Think about it, we've canceled the technical examination for cars, the Mercedes owners don't pay that check, and the tractor owners have to pay it, and there's a lot of it, and there's a lot of it that the state-owned spy gets about 80 million extra dollars, and how much more they get to pay for bribes. I had a few months ago meeting with farmers in the Seminal region of Poltava, and a lot of questions were being discussed, but cancelling the agricultural technology is the most painful question. They're already saying, "whatever we're going to do in the field, we're not going to be harvesting, we're not going to be able to harvest crops, because we have to pay bribes to state inspection." Pay for this formal technology that is not actually being carried out. So I ask you very much, my dear colleagues, the Economic Development Group is urging all the deputies, for whom the unimportant share of the farmers, to vote in favour of this bill. Moreover, we believe that this bill can be voted on and supported by fellow MPs in general in order to allow agrarians and farmers to normally harvest crops, not to look at bribes that follow them, but to look at crops and collect good crops. One question. Perhaps we will not submit to the Code of Administration and increase the fines that are still in place. Because in this case we raise literally 100 dollars a fine, but at the same time we have to work on the law in the second reading. If we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u42	So we can accept this bill as a whole and cancel this rudimentary Soviet Union. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u43	National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u44	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trieste, Kiev, Fatherland. Kuzmi Prucco's famous man is a beautiful phrase. He said, "You know, the moon is better than the sun. Because the sun shines in the daytime, when you can see it, and the moon is better, because it shines in the dark." Something like that makes me think of this bill. I'm a motorist with a lot of experience. Many times the so - called technical examination took place. I don't remember any of these inspectors staring at me. Usually it was either a book or a bottle, or something else. This system actually continues with agricultural technology. Because we've already cancelled the car business. It would seem very good. We're canceling this review, usually a pay-per-view, where shadow money goes, agricultural technology. But instead of what the drafters do. Increase fines for failure to meet the legal requirements of agricultural inspectors. So there'll be no more bribes, but we'll have to pay bribes to the inspectors. Because they're elevated, they're going to be raised to a lot of heights. As a result, I am convinced that this is a wicked law. I can't vote for him or vote for him. It's just to cancel the agricultural techniques, and in this case it's the combines, the tractors that work in the field, they're not the cars that are at the speed, let's say, they're shutting down our roads and so on. Because of that, it's a rudimentary, a completely old Soviet rudimentary. I'm sure it needs to be canceled. But to make it harder and to allow inspectors to make money on it, it's not natural. I, morale, do not allow me to vote for this bill and call to join me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u45	National MP Furman, please. He's giving the word to a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u46	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. During the time of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Switzerland, the agrarians raised the issue of cancelling the technical survey on agriculture. A technical review of this technique is usually carried out formally and no inspector goes beyond his office to carry out this technical examination. In addition, according to the U.S. State Statistics Service, only 15 cases have been dealt with in the past four years. I mean, it's very meager compared to what we're voting for. The safety of road traffic must be, however, technical examinations as such are not necessary. Moreover, I feel that fines for such administrative misconduct are unnecessary and unfounded. In addition, the administrative responsibility of owners and operators of hydromechanisms for the technical status they are operating and the responsibility for failure to comply with the legal requirements of agricultural inspectors is increased. So I think the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u47	Thank you. From the author's team, please, National Deputy Labazük. Colleagues, I'll remind you, it's a reduced procedure, it's not from factions. I'm asking the author then, let's give it one minute. A representative of the PPU, who's speaking? Please turn on the microphone. And then Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u48	National Deputy of Ukraine Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, Poltavščina, faction of the Ukrainian Company. First. Alexander Valentine's Day, I would like to point out that you don't give a word to anyone, but when you discuss it, if you don't sign up, you have a guaranteed right to one minute each faction. The question is what is being discussed. Let's see. The Ukrainian Company faction will support this bill in view of what? First. Large landowners have the technology they have, and they should pay or not. But most of all, it strikes those who have technology that processes this land in the private sector itself. That's why we support the drafters. We should have voted it out, but we should have given the right to those who control it. If you fail to maintain proper equipment, you must also be responsible for the safety of the worker. It is therefore necessary for everyone to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u49	Please turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with the technical condition of transport means is the owner's responsibility. Moreover, in the vast majority of cases we have never had a technical examination. So we have to get rid of this insanely absurd norm and make a decision. We have in factions a warning, similar to that of colleagues from other factions: remove from the bill a rule that applies to the strengthening of fines. The problem of responsibility is not the size of sanctions but the irreversibility of responsibility. If we delete this rule and the authors agree, I think we can vote for the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u51	Please, from the copyright team.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u52	Thank you, dear fellows, for this lively discussion of the problem. We agree to withdraw the rule on the application of additional fines. And I would really like to ask all the national MPs to address this issue with an extremely responsible vote, because today, more than ever, we need to show you the unified work of the Supreme Council and the corruption scheme to break so that no more such disgraceful cases in Ukraine can be repeated. Please put this bill as a whole on the ground and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u53	No fines. Yeah, we're putting it under a transcript -- no fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats. We will now make our decisions. I want to emphasize the proposals that have been made here, to support the project as a whole, but in the event that the position that applies to fines and sanctions is lifted. I mean, just on the ground? Colleagues, let's not fail the law. When someone insists, insists on what is needed as a basis in the first reading, I cannot put it all together. My colleague, I say again, it won't work, believe me. So let's put it this way, let's vote on the basis, and then let's make a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of Bill 2609a. People's deputies would like to be able to identify themselves by taking into account the comments we've been talking about. [[16:49:49]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we vote when we take down the fines? We can. Yeah? Let's try it. Taking into account the motions for lifting sanctions and fines to uphold the law is a proposal in general. I bet, Your Honor, and I ask you to identify yourself as the Supreme Council in support of the entire 2609a bill, taking into account the comments I have made. Parliament is requested to decide by vote. [[16:50:37]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. I think the agrarians thank both the Supreme Council and the authors of this bill. Dear colleagues, Sergey Petrovich Labazük continues to work. He will now report to us the draft Act amending the Act on Export (Export) Customs to Livestock and Leather Commodity (Registration No. 3654). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u55	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, has developed this project with the aim of raising the income of the rural population and improving the efficiency of farming in Ukraine. I want to make it clear to you that over a long period of time, the level of purchase prices for large cattle does not compensate for the cost of production. Such imbalances have led to damage to the cultivation of VOCs in recent years. Just recently, on March 18, I attended a dairy convention that brought together agriculture from all over Ukraine and actively discussed the problems that were raised in one voice and asked for export duties, since the animal industry has suffered enormous damage. In addition, they reported that the profitability of VOC cultivation is currently covered only by milk yields, and I am significantly reducing the overall profitability of livestock and hindering investment in the sector. Some statistics should be provided. The production of cattle from 2006 to 2013 decreased by 30 percent, resulting in a corresponding fall in annual consumption of beef from 12.5 kg in 2006 to 8.8 kg in 2013. While receiving State support for the conservation and maintenance of cattle during 2012 and 2013, the peasants increased their own livestock by 4.9 percent on September 1, 2013. Yet they are forced to implement it at extremely low prices. Thus, efforts by the government to increase the interest of the population’s farms in the breeding of cattle cannot be effectively carried out. Native carnivores, for their part, cannot purchase livestock at a higher price, since their activity would be detrimental. The solution to this situation is to discover additional channels for the implementation of farmed animals, including abroad. There is an obstacle to this journey.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u57	The export of bribes. Today, livestock exports are made only to the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus and Azerbaijan, with which a free trade agreement has been concluded within the SND. Other export directions are actually blocked. In this regard, the government’s export budget is virtually out of duty. Following Ukraine’s accession to the World Trade Organization, today export duties have dropped from 50 percent to 25 percent, but this has not saved the industry. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u58	Please finish the speech. Half a minute and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u59	Suggestion: Reduce from 25 percent to 5 percent. That will allow you to open up new markets. The stable production of beef in Ukraine will make it a significant export product of Ukraine and will open up markets for its sale. Please support the adoption of the project as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, from the committee, Oksana Prodan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u61	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered Bill 3654 at its meeting on 28 May. Given that we support the position on the need to develop agriculture and the development of large cattle in Ukraine, we still have to make such remarks to this bill. First, this bill, in part of the commodity codes, does not meet the customs tariff, so the codes should be changed in accordance with the customs tariff. Secondly, the draft does not modify the Tax Code and the Budget Code, which is necessary in view of the fact that it brings changes to the budgetary revenues of the Ukrainian State budget. Moreover, this project and the explanatory note do not reflect how livestock is being exported today in accordance with Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 182 of 1997, which actually allows agricultural production today, to export livestock without duty if produced only in Ukraine. Therefore, the Tax and Customs Committee proposes that the Supreme Council reject the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? I can see what it is, please sign up. The word is given to the national deputy, Ivahib, and he passes it on to the national deputy, Zabotni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u63	Dear colleagues! I want to say that I am clear and I invite all non-fractional and all my other colleagues to vote in favour. Why "yes"? I have a brief argument. First of all, there's no industry in Ukraine today that processes raw leather and they're practically losing their quality and people can't implement it. If we had businesses in Ukraine today that were capable of working and processing raw leather, there would be no questions, that would not be the case. Today we need to support the bill and allow the villagers to implement the skins until we have the appropriate investors in Ukraine and build appropriate businesses. Please support the bill he deserves attention and will help the peasants have some extra cash.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u64	Thank you. Please, people's MP Melnik, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u65	Please give the floor to Ambassador Alexander Mirno.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u66	Please, Alexander Mirny of the rostrum is willing to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u67	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. With regard to the previous bill, what would you like to pay attention to? It's desirable not to make the votes that we now have, we have to make very clear what we're picking or what we're adding, because we're still allowing the secretariat to deal creatively with the issues that we're voting on. And we vote in general. And I don't rule out that when we read the final version of the technology difference bill, we'll be surprised at all the novels that will appear in this bill. And they're going to put a stenographer under them that we're taking it away. We don't know what "this" is. Regarding the bill that we are currently discussing, we definitely need to support it, because we have a strange situation in Ukraine: beef is much more expensive than pork in the whole world. We've got the opposite. Why? Because there is no competition for this meat, there is no competition, no competition for it, for this beef. And people are forced to carve cattle, because we are now looking at the World War Il as a dairy producer, and we are not encouraged to produce meat at the top. This bill allows, encourages the production of meat and makes it possible for people to earn extra money. That's what matters! So any suspicion that we, for example, will either destroy or cut out, no! Remember, when we had the opportunity to export VOCs lively, we had much more head than we had now when the export of the cattle was banned. So please, if we are concerned about our farmer, let us keep him busy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u68	Thank you. National Deputy Kaplan, please. Victor Pinzenik has a word for it. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u69	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The current situation with export duties is one example of how the wrong tool is used to influence the economy. Let's ask ourselves, what was the purpose of this tool? Not to be exported, but to be converted into Ukrainian businesses. It would seem like a killer logic. But ask ourselves the second question: Why do people want to export? Because they pay more. So, please tell me, what do we want from the peasants of other behavior? If we want the peasants not to export, but to sell to the Ukrainian factory, pay as much as they pay for exports. And don't try using the export tool to force Ukrainian peasants to sell cheaper products. For peasants, it doesn't matter in the end: a bracelet or a dollar. The bracelet is freely converted. Thus, such things were never good for the village. So I urge my colleagues to vote in favour of this law, especially since it has never worked. But look, our country is a complete grid. We're all surrounded by free trade countries, which means we don't have any export or import duties with these countries. I would urge my colleague not to politicize this issue, because it is a purely economic, pragmatic question, a question needed for the development of the Ukrainian village, so that Ukrainian producers can sell their products at real prices and vote on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Jaroslav dry, please. This is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum not the first year and not the first time bills have been introduced, are being discussed in the draft legislation on export duties. It's about a specific bill. He has already been noted by his colleague, Oxana, as he spoke. I can tell you about this bill that it's completely everywhere through the pervasive and evil, and by substituting the concept. After entering the World Trade Organization, we reduce export duties for everything every year. Including the sunflower, including the large horned cattle and the skin. And we have to have 10 percent. Gradually reach 10. Why did the 5 percent figure come out here all of a sudden? And one more thing. Maybe someone didn't listen to what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic said. If we support our producer, said one speaker, let's make it profitable for this farmer and set a normal purchase price. You remember how the battle ended here in this rostrum would lead to a sunflower. We raised the purchase price for a sunflower so much that it became convenient to produce and sell here in Ukraine, and produce finished oil. And Ukraine came first in the world last year to produce and sell oil. Not the sunflower itself. In this case, this bill has to be rejected because it doesn't give the farmer any chance. He's just bluntly opening the border. We had that in the '90s when we took our queens and calves to Jordan. This bill has to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, one minute, Inna Bogoslovska asks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to take a look at this bill. It's about whether or not we're going to export beef for export. I'll tell you directly, because we don't have everyday, primary beef identification in Ukraine, 80 percent of beef is produced in households. We can't talk about any exports right now. So it's a campaign. This will open up the black market, it will destroy those six processing plants that are already being built in Ukraine, including with foreign investment aid. This bill cannot be voted on. If you and I can still make it through and accept an identity from a household that's mandatory, if we do a control system, then we can say that we're going to create normal civilized export conditions, and today it's simple, and they're going to cut and export and we're not going to be able to do a black market that's going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, you can see that the views of the MPs differ from that of the project. I ask the People's Deputy Labazyuk Sergey Petrovich, one minute, to conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, let's not politicize this issue. And if indeed, today, someone in this room doesn't fully understand what is in agriculture, I want to state as the first deputy head of the agrarian committee to address us daily with this problem. And I want to support my colleague at Peace, where really the problem is that we're the only ones in Europe where beef today has a lower price for pork, and factories, 6 factories that work and process leather products don't exist in Ukraine, because we don't feel offers from them for the end market. The identification of cattle is, there is no problem with this, too, and we must help today to make the price of beef more than it has today. The bill provides such an opportunity. I ask my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to determine how to vote. The offer of a profile committee is accepted. to reject this law, and the proposals of the authors and some of the speakers to support it on the basis. My fellow Members, Parliament will now determine that by the end of this law. Please prepare for the vote, sit in your seats and vote on the fate of this law. There is a question of the adoption of the law as a basis. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[17:06:29]] For-138 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 3.25 – Fatherland, 23 – Impact, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 4621. But the only thing that came to me was our MPs who were working on the break of Act No. 4953. And as I was told, he was processed. This is a question related to those who have received foreign currency loans. Please inform Parliament, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We discussed it today at a committee meeting, discussed it, and proposed a text, No. 4953 with corrections. By your permission, in order for me to, for the stenographer, read the amendments to that text. "The Ukrainian law on a moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property, granted as collateral for loans in foreign currency. 1. During the operation of this law, it is not compulsory to withdraw, alienated without the owner's consent, the immovable property which is considered to be subject to a mortgage under article 4 of the Act "On the Zastava" (“Visibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, 1992, No. 47, article 642) and/or mortgage under article 5 of the Law "On the Mortgage" (“Visibility of the Supreme Council”, 2003 No. 38, article 313), if such assets are used as collateral for the obligations of a Ukrainian citizen, a borrower or a debtor, with consumer loans granted to him by credit institutions, residents of Ukraine, in foreign currency. Such immovable property in the event of the taking of such property into service should be the principal place of residence of the borrower or the owner of the property, or if such property is an object of unfinished construction with the borrower or the owner of the property, we should not have other immovable property in our possession. Real estate should also meet such criteria. For the apartment is not more than 130 meters (we agreed). For a residential building, there are no more than 250 square blocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u79	Everything else by law is the same as the text. In addition, in paragraph 4, we're after the words "which settles the issue of defaulting on the principal amount of debt." We're changing the defaults instead of the unliquidated the principal debt. I ask you, honourable members of the people, we have come to the consensus that this law is being passed by us, understanding that now collector companies are actually taking property from citizens. We agreed that within two weeks, this law, based on a committee with the participation of the National Bank, Minfin would be complemented by the transfer of foreign exchange into the national currency, and restructuring would be proposed. The head of the National Bank was at a committee meeting, promising to be actively involved in the work of this law. We ask you as a basis and as a whole to vote on this law today in order to protect Ukrainian citizens. This is hundreds of thousands of people who are on the verge of bankruptcy, this is the middle class that we're talking about and fighting for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to ask the profile committee is the co-reporter on this issue? Please, Alexei Kaida.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u81	Thank you. Respectable Society! I would like to inform you that there has been a meeting of the Financial and Banking Committee during the break, where a bill 4953 was promptly considered – a moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens' property as collateral for foreign currency loans. There was a head represented by Nazbank, there were representatives of other state institutions, including mortgages, there were representatives of the public who expressed their position in the same way and a harmonized compromise version of Law 4953 was found somewhere. I'm not going to repeat what Mikola Rudzkowski said. The only thing that might be going on right now is some other legal code, so let's say that. And so we're asking for those technical rights, actually, but now we're going to adopt this whole bill as a whole, because tens of thousands of Ukrainians who are not only under the walls of the Supreme Council right now, but also those who are all over Ukraine who have suffered from, probably, the short work of both the previous Cabinetmen and the National Bank, and now they're at risk of losing their homes, so I think that together all factions have to vote for this bill. In addition, tomorrow, a working group will continue to work under the authority of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, and we will continue to draft bills that would actually make it impossible for our citizens to have housing. Please support this draft technical law, which will now be agreed upon as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u82	Dear colleagues. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, Alexandra Volodymyrna. Come on, lots of hands, let's sign up for the performance: two for, two against. Come on, Alexandra, we'll give you one minute. Please sign up for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the only thing I want us all to hear is whether it's just the people who took credit. No, it's not. Everybody remembers 2006, 2007 economic growth, everyone felt very confident, on all the radio television, all the government officials, everyone said, I don't remember who, when you were in power, we would grow, build up, pay up, all felt very normal. And that's why they all believed both the state and the National Bank, and they believed that there would be a wage and there would be economic growth. When such a disaster occurred, in 2009, we suggested that Yushchenko take responsibility for three. But they didn't care about it with Stella, because they were doing the refinancing of those banks, and we know how much money went abroad. What we have for today, I ask you to hear. Why do you have to do an emergency monitoring? Only now did my grandparents call me and take 30,000 of everything for my daughter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u84	Half a minute, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u85	One-room apartment in Suma. Now they've got $196 000. They took away the house without looking at it, and the old people were just being thrown out. Let's vote on this bill. But the only thing you want is not to put 130 square meters, but 140 square meters, because the Ukrainian construction projects are no less than 135. And that's why I'm asking 140. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u86	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, the bill is extremely important, because not only should citizens carry the burden of the difficulties that we have received since 2008 as a result of a global crisis that has fallen not only on the real estate market of Ukraine but also on the whole world. Since then, however, the authorities have never taken care of citizens. In this case, for the first time, we're really trying to divide the responsibility not only for the borrowers, but also for the banks. Again, some things are not included. I think we're going to have to draft a separate bill. In particular, there is a danger that banks, as structures that always get, are known to change interest rates for foreign exchange loans in the near future in a one-sided manner according to contracts. We have to make a ban on increasing interest rates at the time of adoption of this bill. Because otherwise, the theft of the borrowers will continue. But today's work carried out by an expert group is now very important. And the only thing that, Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you very much in voting to take into account that the technical and legal rights are to be conferred on the Scientific and Expert Authority for final editing. Otherwise, we're going to get a very complicated piece of paper that won't work. And only then will the bill be put into effect. And it's very important, once again, dear colleagues, to consider the moment that banks can just raise the interest rate after that. And you don't have to let that happen, or people will get hurt anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u88	Please, the Peace People's Deputy of Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u89	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In the matter of what we're looking at right now, there are two aspects that we need to focus on. Of course, for this moment, we have an immediate, immediate and unanimous adoption of the Law on the Moratorium of Deprivation. I call on the communists in the first place, who are constantly stressing that they are on the watch for the common people's interests, to support the coalition's efforts. Because it's very important. And there's a second point that we have to say that loans go back anyway. And we have to be clear with you in this room about the mechanism of return. We have to say that the State and commercial banks actually have a solid responsibility to investors who have been persuaded to take money in the currency. So, we think that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will insist that people who are going to return loans, and these are usually good-natured lenders who are going to last-receiving that money, firstly, in the national currency, secondly, in the course that was at the time of receiving the loan. And the difference we have to make at the expense of the National Bank's reserves and at the expense of commercial banks, that's true. But it's bad. If it is bad, it should be bad for everyone, not just those who cannot protect themselves because their voices are weak and they are divided. So first, we must support this bill, taking into account all the legal, technical rights that the commission head, a member of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, has been talking about. And we have to work on this mechanism, and not run away from it, about the return of credit. Otherwise, people will sweep us away and be right! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u90	Please, 1 minute, the national MP is asking for Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u91	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, especially those who had the opportunity to attend this session hall in 2008 and 2009. Remember, the situation is almost repeated. We also shouted at the time that it was necessary to protect not 200 banks, but that 20 million citizens should be protected. Now it's not about 20 million, it's about four million people who are actually trapped. They've been fooled for such a non-parliamentary word. Unfortunately, this session hall is largely dominated by not millions of citizens, but by more than one and a half or two hundred banks. I hope that today is the day where common sense prevails, not banking solidarity. That's one thing. And the second. Laws also need to be regulated so that there is no such thing. It's for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u92	National MP Yatzenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I have a proposal for the text of the law. Where we have a limit of 130 meters per apartment and 250 meters per residential house, even though there are many families, to supplement that plus 10 square meters for every minor, that is, the child who lives in this room, is a permanent place of residence. I think, in principle, this should be the right thing to do. Yes, this law must be upheld because people are waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u94	National Deputy Catherinechuk, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u95	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. This bill has such an interesting approach to the moratorium. Regrettably, we do not see the final rights in the text, but I would still like us to pay attention in technical editing to how this moratorium will apply and to what term of the legal relationship that has already been established. So it's for all relationships, or it's for some period, or it's for some period. That is, it is absolutely necessary for the court practice to be fully understood and the banks then, looking at this bill, did not start interpreting it differently in the courts, so that the National Bank could be explained, it would have to be the position of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in order for this moratorium to be really working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u96	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to dream that this room will once be guided by common sense and economic logic. I understand the problem, I understand the difficulties faced by citizens affected by the devaluation of the national currency. But I would like all of us to remember what banks are. The bank is just the middleman between the owners of the money and the recipient of the money. By the beginning of May, Ukrainian banks had issued loans for one trillion dollars. What was the resource for those loans? Some people think they're banks. True, the bank's capital is only 180 billion dollars and the rest is deposits. I'd like you to remember that there are people on Gruszewski Street on the other side who represent the Forum Bank, who have not been paid back. In what case do banks not return deposits? They don't return when they don't return the loans. I would urge my colleague to take such serious laws that relate to 88 billion dollars of foreign exchange credit, not to adopt without allowing the MPs to read. Stop this shameful practice. Thank God.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u98	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u99	Thank God that in the complete text of the law, the huts have disappeared. Three-story cottages in Concha-Ssleep or Desert Water. But please tell me, why do we have to film a moratorium on the things we have left behind for people who make good money? Please tell me, why do we have to film a moratorium on the property that we got on credit for prestigious cars? And the last. We are willing to vote in favour of the first reading, taking into account the details of who will be involved in the moratorium. And the second. It must be prohibited to apply this law to Ukrainian national deputies and their assistants!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! I think we've discussed this project comprehensively enough. Colleagues, we need to determine his acceptance. The only objection is to accepting it in general, but only. Colleagues, once again, when the MPs deny, I have no right to vote in general. For this reason, please, the People’s Deputy, Other God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! I'd like to draw your attention to what we're talking about. Now it's not about the fundamental law that we're talking about, which lists the currency loans into the bracelet, restructures and so on. This law is only developed in a working group involving both the National Bank and associations of banks and payers and lenders and so on. Today, we are talking about stopping what is actually created in Ukraine from the black market for the unscrupulous realization of the assets that have been set up. People today suffer from the fact that banks, unfortunately too, have become companies that sell their loans and claim to pay off unscrupulous companies that don't even have currency licenses. These companies, collectors, and families are bullied morning and night. At the same time, this property is sold at prices three times lower than it is in the market. And actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u102	Let me finish for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u103	And in fact, lenders become guilty their whole lives because they have no ability to account. How do we propose that the Supreme Council act now? Today we're adopting this whole law because if we don't accept it, between the first and the second readings, all of this shit that's trying to speculate on this property right now, it's going to go into effect, and the bribes in the Minus, and so on, they're going to do it, so we do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u104	Thank you, thank you. Please, one minute from the committee. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u105	Respectable Society! Well, there were some of them here, forgetting how many apartments they've captured here, being national deputies, and now they're talking about counting and telling us how many people they have to give to. There are people standing, and we must answer our consciences to them and to our mandates, just as we do to them. These people are being thrown out on the street. We're not talking about the return of funds right now, because once again, I'm stressing that a working group is going to be working on several bills that will be introduced, agreed with Nazibank and other government agencies, with Kabmin, and will be put into the session room and decided on who's going to return the money. But the question is now that people should not be thrown out of their homes. And that's why I voted in favour of both myself and the committee that voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u107	for this bill, and from the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, which insists that this bill be voted on today as a whole. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. I see a lot of hands. We're not going to end this discussion. Let's make a decision. Colleagues, attention, calm down. Please take your seats. There are two suggestions. One suggestion is still to vote on the basis. The second is in general. I'm going to lay the groundwork first. And then we're going to solve the whole voting issue. Dear colleagues, please sit in your seats and prepare yourself for supporting Bill 4953 in that edition that was announced in the rostrum. Attention on the rostrum by the national MP Rudzkowski, with a note by Deputy Kuzel, 140 meters [140 m]. On the basis of this, I ask you to determine whether to vote. On the ground, please vote. [[17:30:25]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please, don't worry. There's a proposal, in general. But there's a proposal for the impact faction, based on a simplified procedure. Oksani Prodan, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u109	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We propose to exclude from this law national MPs, their helpers, and members of the families of the national deputies. And then vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u110	And the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u111	Colleagues, no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we can offer workers here, not officials, but government. Colleagues, it's chorus singing. You know, it's very hard to make laws in a chorus song, you know, you can't do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, colleagues, let's break the law now. Let's calm our emotions. Colleagues, let's calm our emotions. Please, I'm asking the author's team for one minute, Rudzikowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I'm very much in touch with you. I understand there's going to be proposals now, and that was the idea of assistants, and then they're saying, by civil servants. Dear colleagues, we can talk about everyone. We are now enacting a law that deprives collectors and inhospitable banks of evicting people with children and so on. Are you saying that a civil servant is not a person who has a child or something? There are also civil servants who are legitimate, I ask you, and everything after the conversion and so on. I'm addressing you, please, let's vote, colleagues, as a whole this law, let's take off the tension and work on our own. People today are asked to pass Law 4890 on enumeration. But we can see that we have no consensus at all in this conversation. Keep this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u113	Please, one minute, Deputy Easy. MP Miroshnichenko, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u114	Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, what is the point of the law? The content of the law is to protect the protected categories of citizens. National MPs, judges, prosecutors, and government officials do not refer to the few protected categories of citizens. If we have a national MP or a prosecutor who has 30,000 pensions who doesn't want to pay a currency loan living in a 150-meter apartment, excuse me, why should he be hiding in a moratorium? The content of the law, the purpose of the law that we're passing here with you, is to protect those people who want to pay, but they don't have the ability to pay. So I propose to exclude prosecutors, judges, government officials, national deputies from this law, and let everyone else use it, and government officials, judges and prosecutors, national deputies are not the categories of citizens that need to be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u115	People's MP Miroshnichenko. Please. Colleagues, please, please, Alexandra Volodymyrna, please, take your seats. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u116	Dear colleagues. But listen, please. Of course, there is certainly no man in this room who would not want to help those who have been held hostage to the situation in the country. But I stress again, and our group voted on the basis of this bill, provided that we clearly limit the duration of this moratorium. That's the first one. We have not more than a month to complete this session. And the second. What that basic law will provide is that the state takes the risks that the bank will then face and the person who deposited the currency. If there is such a mechanism, we are ready to support this bill in order not to balance the banking system of Ukraine. If you don't, I don't think you'll get our votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, please. Alexander Volodymyr, let's give discipline and order. I'm asking because you don't have to push me. My colleagues, first of all, I want to give to my colleagues who have spoken, that's the basic law that deals with these issues. Yuri, this is not a matter of this law, this is only a matter for collectors and our citizens to be evicted from their homes. I say again, this is not about settling the question of who will compensate for expenses, damages, and so forth. It's a different law. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking that we calm down a bit. Let's keep our emotions down. We need a result, not a beautiful performance. National MP Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, I'd like to propose a formula that will probably get the whole room ready. I propose in the Final Positions of the Law to prescribe a rule that this law does not apply to persons who are subject to the Anti-Corruption and Prevention of Corruption Act in Ukraine. And that's where all those categories of people you're talking about fall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u119	I got the offer. Colleagues, Alexandra, do you offer to vote with your hands?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u120	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u121	Give me a minute, will you? Please, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u122	I'm going to the strike party. Your leader Klitschko was there yesterday, yesterday, and he promised he would vote. But I want to stress, I'm a national MP, I'm a judge, I'm a prosecutor. What are you ordering a civil servant in a village or in a town that receives two thousand dollars ’ wages? I think it's impossible, it's the same people that we and they need to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u123	Colleagues, please! Please calm down. Calm down, colleagues, let's go. Please. We have a problem that doesn't apply to this law, do we? All the other questions we've identified. The principles have been defined. Let me call you back. So we don't include MPs, that doesn't apply, does it? Judges? Not applicable. The officers of the Attorney General's Office? [[B in m in s a l in]] The offer of Chumak's national deputy may be taken into account? Sure. Why? It only applies to category one, category two, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] The first, the second, the third category of officials, I understand? Okay. Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, come on. Dear national deputies, well, there is a danger when we are. He who speaks louder will cry out. We're going to adopt a law that won't work at all when we're talking about one question, another, and we're going to ask it out loud. So, dear fellows, let's make a decision. Oh, right. I forgot my name for the transcript. I want to state that, of course, in this form of legislative work, the law will need a very serious technical and legal reform. Is that clear? For the stenographer. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we can make decisions on the basis of the comments made by honourable colleagues regarding exceptions to this bill as a whole. In general. [[B in m in s a l in]] First category, third category, good. Colleagues, on the basis of which we have accepted, can we vote in general? It's technical law, isn't it? Surely, with the correction of Chumak, yes. Okay. Please, dear fellows. Not again. Rubinsky, turn on the microphone, colleagues, you can't work like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u124	Dear colleagues! Even the populism that is now flourishing here has to be based on common sense. You know, there's a Constitution, I'm not talking about myself, I'm talking about those who are going to be victims of this kind of masculine populism. Please tell me, when it comes, for example, to MPs, by the way, why should the members of the Kyiv City Council not be counted? They're a lot richer, by the way. [[B in m in s a l in]] When it comes to these categories, my colleague came to me and said, "How do you count?" Is it when you took credit for who you were, or is it who you are now? Think of your populism as a nuisance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u125	Dear colleagues! Can we vote? We can. Please identify honourable national MPs to support Bill 4953 in general with the comments that have been made. Please. Please, as an editor, we've already taken the basis for this. Please determine by vote, please vote. [[17:40:51]] For 224 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to this question. Please return to the Parliament's consideration of this matter. Please vote. [[17:41:19]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we try to vote again? Please determine how to vote in favour of this law as a whole. May I remind you, 4953. Please vote. With those remarks we were talking about. Please vote. [[17:41:46]] For 241 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions, please. Region Party 11, Fatherland 68, Impact 26, 15 Economic Development, 23 Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom 35, 23 Company, 40 non-fractional. Dear colleagues, there is another issue to consider: (registration number 4621) the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (for banning foreigners and non-citizens from participating in political activities in Ukraine). Please report to the National MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u126	Oleg Lazko. Dear fellow MPs! Please support the bill banning foreigners and non-citizens from participating in political activities in Ukraine. We are with you today when, in eastern Ukraine, in the south, in Kharkiv, in Odessa, in Zaporozhye, in Mikolaev, people with Russian citizenship, with other citizenship come to our country, take part in unauthorized actions, seize state buildings, illegally raise flags, destroy state property, collective, private property. My bill proposes that foreigners and noncitizens be banned from participating in the organization and holding of assemblies, rallies, street raids, and demonstrations. It is also predicted that individuals who were held responsible for violations of Ukrainian legislation during their previous stay in Ukraine are not allowed to enter Ukraine for a period of 5 to 10 years. Similarly, it is proposed to accept amendments to legislation that would provide that if a foreign person was forcibly returned from Ukraine, he would not be allowed to continue entering Ukraine for a period of 5 to 10 years. Why are such proposals foreseen? Ukraine, if we are to win, we must be determined to defend ourselves. In no country of the world, foreigners have the right to engage in political activities. And we can have foreign people come to conduct politics. We have the Constitution and laws that only Ukrainian citizens can be elected deputies, only Ukrainian citizens can take part in political activities. So I suggest that foreigners be banned from political activities, that they be removed from Ukraine, and that they be banned from entering Ukraine for at least five years. To stop the export.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u127	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u128	To stop the export of terrorism, export of political extremism to the middle of our country. So I ask Parliament to support this bill, which will allow law enforcement authorities to act decisively when foreigners commit violations of legislation in our country. I appeal to representatives of all factions and groups regardless of how they treat the author of the bill, to support this bill, because it is about protecting the country, national security, the territorial integrity of our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u129	Thank you. Now it will be possible to speak through writing. Dear colleagues. Questions are not foreordained. Please. Valeriy Vasilovich Pakkan reports from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u130	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting considered the above - mentioned bill. We'd like to draw a conclusion. According to the author, the bill is designed to ensure that special and law enforcement authorities are able to respond quickly and harshly to the fact that foreigners and non-citizens are involved in Ukraine's political activities. I would like to point out that in accordance with article 26 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws on election of national deputies, the laws on election of the President, on political parties in Ukraine, on public service, in fact, all of this is already covered by restrictions on foreigners and non-citizens, on participation in social political life, and on relations in Ukraine. They do not have the right to be elected to the authorities of the State, to local authorities, to become a civil servant, and to be members of political parties. So the first rule proposed by the author is already included in a series of legislative acts, but in terms of another norm, the second one proposed by the national MP Lazko. If we want it now, according to the citizens who took over the buildings in Slaviansk, Donetsk, Kramitarski, it should be prescribed, if we are talking about common crimes, it is wrong. The committee at its meeting approved the rejection of the bill, but if the author clearly distinguishes criminal responsibility, i.e. the seizure of buildings, or the violation of current legislation in terms of the seizure of administs, then the bill should be reopened for re-reading and re-examined in the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There's a need. Please sign in. People's MP Hanenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u132	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u133	Please turn on Yuri Mikhalchiin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u134	Michalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, the bill is not what is relevant, it is absolutely necessary to ensure the foundations of our national security. The only thing I want to say is that right now the bastards who are attacking our territorial integrity are not holding congregations, rallyings, marchings, and demonstrations. They have already unleashed outright aggression against our nation and are killing the peaceful citizens of Ukraine and our military personnel today, not knowing whether they have applied for a certain kind of political activity. But here we have to note that Oleg Laska's bill is registered in April. And it seems to me that if it were considered at the right time by the Supreme Council and accepted as a basis and as a whole, many of the negative processes in South East Ukraine could have been avoided. So today, of course, we can talk about that, in part, his position is highlighted in other legal instruments, but his relevance does not give rise to any doubt. It should have been accepted for a long time, and then we would not have allowed the same civil war to start in Ukraine that Putin wanted with the help of his political tourists, who unfortunately had been playing their black business. So we vote, we support, we don't waste time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u135	Please turn on the Mikoli Tomenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, I continue to think of a colleague from the Freedom faction. Because the situation seems to be that in principle this instrument is an important, important and condition when we live in a democratic, free and non-military Ukraine. In fact, for today it looks like we're in a state of war and that's how we're going to run and ask if they've glued cards when they shot our soldiers or not glued them. Whether they had political agitation when shooting our helicopter or not, they did not. It looks a little inadequate. Although once again I say that in peaceful conditions such a ban would be right. When we raised the question here at the sessions three months ago, Alexandre Valentinovich, that, for example, our police had not responded to the abuse of state symbols. The law in force is a criminal case for three years. And we got the police to open the case for bullying, and there's 100 bucks. So unfortunately, at the first stage there was a time missing, and today there's a war going on, and I think you can theoretically think about such a bill, but you have to talk about how to make an effective anti-terror operation, how to make sure that travelers and coders go back to their historic homeland, how to make sure that people can go out and not be afraid that they won't come home. So perhaps to be productive in this idea, we need to consider it, a bill, irrespective of the situation that has arisen today. And once again, I'm saying that the idea, by the way, as the idea of dual citizenship to be considered, is that the idea that citizens of another state a month after becoming citizens of the country were already ministers of Yanukovich. All of this needs to be considered, but it must be understood that these are actions under peaceful conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u137	National Deputy Fries, please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u138	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u139	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u140	Of course, the issue of combating secessionism and overcoming the danger of incursion into Ukraine by foreign professionals, special services from foreign countries, such as Russia, is extremely relevant. But along with what we can do after adopting this law, for example, with a visit from Kahia Bendukidze, who will come here to help us reform the country. I'd like to emphasize, I'd like to emphasize another. Dear parliamentarians, colleagues, we need to start implementing the laws that we have adopted, the laws that are to implement the Constitution of Ukraine. We don't have to leave Ukraine's Foreign Service one by one with a problem, one by one with Putin. We have to remember that we have: 1998 kilometers of the border with Russia, 1,350 kilometers of Lugansk and Donetsk region, 2.8 miles of borderline direct by 1 km, 245 checkpoints, border crossings with Russia. Yanukovic solved the Ukrainian-Russian border. Today, we must make every effort to leave him and all the services of the Kremlin alone. And the main thing. That's where our boys live. And the head of Russia's Foreign Service is the ex-first deputy director of the Russian FSB and they know where every family lives, where children live, the wives of these border guards. We need to defend the border and enforce the law. And this is going to be a lot better than what a distinguished deputy named Lazko has registered, by the way, until the presidential election.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u141	Please, National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u142	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear colleagues, let's turn to common sense. First of all, let's put an end to this populism and go back to what we would have defined as the activity of foreigners or non-citizens and their participation in political activities in Ukraine itself. That's an extremely interesting question. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine has carefully considered the bill and supports the committee's view that it is necessary to refuse to accept the bill and turn it back into its ass. The next question is how to evaluate what has happened to us in recent times. All those who took part in our participation in Maidan are representatives of the United States, Western European countries, who have participated actively in the outbreak of civil conflict in Ukraine. What activity did we have in Ukraine? So it is absolutely right that the position of the committee that proposes that the drafter put it back in his ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u143	People's MP Zuravsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, I'm going to take a position with our Group Economic Development. I understand the author of this bill, which is against political tourism, and which has led to some destabilization in our country. But let's look at our legislation. Foreigners are forbidden to choose and be chosen, to work in the civil service, and to be in the military. Is that a fact? Fact. But what, for example, can we do about those who have dual citizenship? And there are many, by the way, in the walls of the Supreme Council as well. But there is no responsibility for dual citizenship. That's something to think about, dear fellows. I am also addressing the author of this bill. From our point of view, we should support the head of the profile committee. The score is quite correct and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, give the author one minute for the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, Mikola Tomenko said that this law was relevant to war, and now it is not relevant. If this law had been passed and foreigners violating legislation had been provided for entry into Ukraine, there would have been no war. Because they wouldn't be here, they wouldn't be doing their subversive activity. So the war will end as soon as it ends – it's up to us. So that never again in Ukraine will foreigners provoke or start war, I propose that this law be passed, not during war, but during peacetime. Capplin's colleague said, "What do you do, Kahi Bendukidze, who's coming here to Ukraine?" Kaha Bendukide is coming here to advise the President of Ukraine on economic issues. My bill provides for the right of foreigners and stateless persons to organize either assemblies, rallyings, street raids, and demonstrations. If Kaha Bendukidze wants to hold a demonstration, let him conduct it in Georgia, not in Ukraine. And finally, I propose that article 13 of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship be supplemented by a standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u148	To supplement the rule that stipulates that foreigners or stateless persons who have been held responsible for violations of Ukrainian legislation during their stay in Ukraine are prohibited from entering Ukraine for a period of 5 to 10 years. Please tell me, what is wrong with this rule? Who denies that foreigners violate the requirements of the law and this is established in accordance with the requirements of the applicable Ukrainian legislation to prohibit them from entering Ukraine? I think it's the right norm to protect Ukraine's national interests. And finally, my colleague Gordienko, a communist who repeated twice to get the author back, i.e. me, this bill up your ass, get him back in your ass, not Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u149	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u150	If it is in accordance with the requirements of the Rules and applicable legislation, the bill may be returned for re-reading, re-reading, and so on. Therefore, please formulate your thoughts correctly. I would like Parliament to support it. But, Alexander Valentinovich, I see there are no votes in Parliament today. Maybe let's take a decision from this bill tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-03-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, can we vote or make a decision tomorrow? [[B in m in s a l in]] Offer. Colleagues, let's make sure there's no question that there aren't enough votes, because there were no deputies. I'm asking you to ask that question tomorrow morning. We only have one meeting on Wednesday, so I'll remind you. And today. Dear colleagues, calm down! And today, dear fellows, we will finish our work. The Supreme Council will continue to work tomorrow, 10 a.m. Please.
