ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, please sit in your seats, prepare for registration. While our deputies are preparing for their registration, I would like to traditionally welcome Rubikin Pavel Borisovich, who is celebrating his birthday today. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:07:28]] There were 287 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues! According to the requirements of part four of article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have today 'the hour of the government', but it happened that today's statement by the Cabinet of Ministers coincided with 100 days of the work of our government. This is why Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, will speak on the main objectives and directions of the Cabinet of Ministers' activities. The next proposal, Your Honor, in 30 minutes, let's give the Prime Minister the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister and the members of the government a question for 30 minutes. Is there no objection? None. I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u2	Dear Sir, your head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In summing up the 100 days that our country has lived, I would like to describe them with just one phrase: "We have stood!" We stood as the Ukrainian state, we stood as the Ukrainian people. This is one of the most dramatic challenges in our country's history. For the first time in the history of Ukrainian independence, we have faced unguilty Russian military aggression. There has never been a war in Ukraine. Russia solved this war. Russia annexed Ukrainian territory, namely the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Without stopping at Crimea, they tried and tried to move on. And everything that happens in Donetsk and Lugansk is a direct Russian military intervention. We gathered all our forces together, gathered our will together, and demonstrated that Ukraine is not an area, but a country, but a Ukrainian is not a population, but a people, a people, a people, a great letter! [[Applause]] When we, honourable colleagues, with you 100 days ago, approved the government's action programme and formed a new composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, even then, realizing that the execution was empty, the budget was looted, the state-owned companies were bankrupt, paying nothing by external or internal debt. But then we had a hard time predicting what incredible problems the country would face. The former president, after looting the country, fled the country. And the Ukrainian Parliament announced the holding of early presidential elections. In these circumstances, when the Russian military -- almost 40,000 Russian armed forces -- were located and in direct proximity to the Ukrainian borders, when Russia sent thousands of terrorists to Ukraine, when terrorist financing was going on, and when everything was about to break down the presidential election, we demonstrated that the Ukrainian people were wise. And it was on the first tour that Ukraine received the head of state, and we held fair and transparent elections. And what tomorrow in this room the newly elected head of the Ukrainian State will take an oath is the merit of millions of Ukrainians who have come, voted and said, "This is our country. We will determine who is in charge and in Ukraine will be the legitimate and legitimately elected President of Ukraine." We now have the President and Ukraine represented both inside the state and outside as a state that, as a result of fair and transparent elections, has proved that we are committed to democratic principles. And despite all the attempts to overthrow the presidential election, we have a legitimate constitutional president. We are aware that in many, and primarily in Ukrainians, there will be a question of how the new Ukrainian authorities will continue to work. As head of the Ukrainian government, I want to make it clear that the President, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers will act as the only whole. [[Applause]] Millions of Ukrainians are awaiting real change, and these changes also lie in the face of unity, community of tasks, and political responsibility. Political responsibility for what people stood for in Maidan and political responsibility for what thousands of our boys are now fighting for. And they're fighting for our country, for our future, for the Ukrainian Strip, for the Ukrainian Herb, for our Ukrainian families, and for our European country. If we are together, this is the only guarantee of our victory. That's why we win and win. Ukraine will get rid of the terrorists, and we will free Donetsk and Lugansk from those who also affect their future. Banditism and terrorism, sponsored by Russia, will be destroyed. [[Applause]] In an economic situation. Dear Members of Parliament, you recall the terrible figures that I have reported to you from this rostrum: the hundreds of billions that have been stolen from the state execution, the lack of funds to pay salaries, pensions, social standards, the lack of funds to repay internal debt and external debt. We managed to escape in the economic sphere of this terrible word, the default, and simply, it's the bankruptcy of the state. All the social benefits, all the pensions and wages, all the social standards adopted by the valid State Budget Act are paid. During this period of time, we received financial assistance from our Western partners. This is about restoring cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. In addition to the International Monetary Fund, this is the World Bank, this is the European Bank, this is the European Bank for Development and Reconstruction, this is the United States Government, this is the Government of Canada, this is the Government of Japan, this is the European Union with macro-financial assistance. This enabled Ukraine to continue paying people, which enabled Ukraine not to declare a default and not to fall into an economic gap, from which it should not go out for years, but for decades. As part of our economic stability programme, we've had to go and we'll continue to take unpopular steps in the short term, but on the very necessary measures that have not been taken in Ukraine in the last 20 years, which are usually not popular, which no one will now applaud. But in order to cure this disease, the disease of economic upheaval, the disease of economic bankruptcy, we have to go through difficult but proper measures for economic stability, these pills are very acidic, very bitter, but we need to use them to make our Ukrainian economy strong, alive and healthy. We've decided on one of the biggest cuts in the cost of government equipment. Starting with the fact that the number of government officials is reduced by 25,000 and that we have cut all expenses on the government. In fact, only protected articles are now financed. What protected articles are. It's pay. We've managed in the last month, for the first time in a year, to fund so-called defenseless articles, we've basically sent 2.5 billion dollars to each city council. Each area has received the cost of repairing the school, repairing the hospital, and purchasing the more necessary items that are now needed for local authorities and central authorities to fulfill their obligations. In addition to social services, this is a commitment to support at least a minimum standard of living in appropriate infrastructure support areas. We also managed to take a few positive steps in economic terms. I don't overestimate them. Because it's hard to call any of these steps big achievements. They're big on achievements. Achievements will be, honourable Members of Parliament, only not so fast. And we're predicting in the current year that the economy is going down minus 5 percent. But it will also depend on how events take place in eastern Ukraine. When the economy went down, when industrial production went down, we were able to close down at least a bunch of tax and customs pits. I'll stop at some numbers. First of all, what's going on with customs. The total import volume in the last five months has dropped by 20 percent. So we're bringing 20 percent less goods to Ukraine than we did last year. But at the same time, customs revenue, I'm stressing, in the dollar equivalent, not in the bracelet, (because you realize that in the bracelet it would be wrong to measure, as the devaluation of the national monetary unit went on), so it's in the dollar equivalent. Despite the decline in imports of 20 percent, the decline in industrial production of 5 percent, we increased customs revenue in the dollar equivalent by 13 percent. If you calculate the rate difference, that's 64 percent of the extra revenue. The other one. As far as known tax havens are concerned, these are excises on petroleum products, which are excises on tobacco and alcohol. In May, 40 percent of the revenues from tobacco and alcohol were increased. Last month, 19.5. As far as excise duty is concerned. We've added about $2 billion to the government budget. Unlike last year, where Kurchenka’s companies and the money - laundering scheme did not bring any money into the government budget. The third is also from economic performance. During these two months, we began to pay back the value added tax. The Ukrainian economy began to return to business entities the funds that had been removed from the economy and thus the enterprises were unable to pay off their loans or purchase their products or actually couldn’t work. 11 billion dollars is that over the last two months we've compensated business entities that do their work transparently and openly. I would also like to point out that together we have adopted a bill that now publishes all information on all subjects receiving VAT compensation. I can make it clear that the current VAT is being compensated automatically, and one of the major corruption components that has been attached over the past five years, which is to throw away for VAT compensation, is not there now. Regarding tax compensation for past periods. Here, on this rostrum, we found that the amount of debt that was accumulated was impossible to recover from living expenses. And that's why a decision was made that was agreed with our Western creditors on the issue of domestic government debt in the amount of debt. The government has made an appropriate decision totalling 16.7 billion dollars, of which 10 billion dollars are now about 10 billion dollars, is in the process of issuing VAT-VAT bonds to business entities. As far as our energy independence is concerned, energy dependence is concerned. Here from this rostrum of parliament a few days ago, I told you about the measures the government has taken to keep gas in the comforts and to keep the enterprises from being shut off. We accepted empty gas dumps. The total amount of gas was about 5 billion cubic meters of gas, a buffer gas that is impossible to extract. Over the past two months, more than 12 billion cubic metres of gas have been accumulated in Ukrainian gas repositories, and I think we're going to end this month with a figure above 13 billion cubic meters of gas. Of course, this is not enough to survive the winter. But this is enough to overwhelm the Ukrainian people during the winter. And now we're already doing it to diversify the sources of energy supply. We are signed by the efforts of the European Commission to reverse the flow. So far, this volume can't fully supply natural gas and stop our needs. But 500 million cubic meters of gas that we can at this stage get from Poland, Hungary and Slovakia every month is the first step towards energy independence. We are still looking forward to the final decision of our neighbors because they are unlikely to be called partners. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be informed of the final results, the price and the terms of the contract, if such a contract is signed, if it is not signed, then the fate of our bilateral relations will be decided in court. As part of our political tasks, I would like to remind everyone that the Ukrainians rose up in November for their European future. And that's why the government of Ukraine signed the political part of the Association Agreement with the European Union. On the economic side, the European Union unilaterally cut off the market for Ukraine. In general, markets have been opened in more than 120 commodity positions, primarily agricultural products and industrial products. This unilateral market opening by the European Union gives the Ukrainian business additional revenues of 500 million euros by 1 November of this year. The economic part of the agreement with the European Union should be signed as soon as possible. Our course in Europe is not reverse – it is a political, economic, legal, democratic course. Because Ukraine is a European state for its values. And the signing of this agreement is the first step towards Ukraine becoming a member of the European Union in the future. I am convinced that we deserve to be a member of the European Union. And our progress toward the European future is irreversible, confident, and determined. [[Applause]] As for honorary colleagues, the Armed Forces, the Army and the National Guard. You know, we had all the economic problems that we couldn't predict three months ago. These are the costs of fighting to protect Ukraine’s national independence, to protect our sovereignty, and to protect people from bandits. In general, a decision has been made to allocate an additional 6.7 billion dollars to Ukrainian defence, the National Guard, the Foreign Service, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In addition, during this period of time we directly financed ten and a half billion dollars for national security and defence. We know and realize all the problems that there are in providing the army. But if 20 years were the only thing that was done in the Armed Forces, it was selling what was yet to be sold and even what was not sold; if corruption had eaten up and destroyed the entire national security and defence system; if BTRs and tanks were not the same as fuel, there were no batteries; if the Armed Forces had a hard time imagining how the armory looked, in those three months we formed the Ukrainian army, the National Guard and the security forces in the country -- they were protecting the country. [[Applause]] As far as the next step is concerned. It will continue to be difficult, no less difficult than it is today. And for every such challenge we have together, we need to look together for an answer. That's why, whenever I want to point out that we're going to look together, together all the institutions of the Ukrainian government. We need to look for political, economic, and security answers. In the political sphere, the government has made clear its position – Ukraine needs to complete the process of constitutional change. Within the framework of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine We believe that the authorities should be decentralized. Low government and financial powers should be transferred to the regions. Transmitted to the effect that the local authorities, on the one hand, would have a significant influence and, on the other hand, would have full responsibility. The concentration of power in one hand or in one institution leads either to dictatorship or to a flight to Russia. That's why we're calling on Parliament to complete a process of constitutional change that would foresee three elements. The first element is the decentralisation of power, the transfer of power from the central authorities of the state executive authority to the places. The second element is the revision of the Budget and Tax Code and the provision of economic incentives for regions to invest, to increase jobs and to be accountable to their people. The third element is depriving the public prosecutor's office of the function of so-called general oversight, which is one of the most corrupt elements of the legal system in force. And the fourth element is the conclusion of judicial reform. Unfortunately, the bill that was passed by Parliament is different from the bill that was proposed by the government regarding the illustration of the judicial system. And the question of this illustration is now on the face. That is why we also appeal to Parliament to do everything possible to cleanse the judicial system of corruption that is there to this day, and not just there. Our second task together, our esteemed colleagues, is a real fight against corruption. In the upper echelons, we succeeded in destroying the pyramid of corruption, where we gathered from the bottom and carried it to the top. But has this corruption been destroyed in the middle and bottom chains? No, it is not, of course, destroyed. And that's why, in our actual fight against corruption, we're talking to Parliament. The establishment of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is once again. The second is further deregulation. Serious steps have been taken to reduce the number of permits by half. But for the time being, it's a cosmetic repair. Down below they took the money and took the bribes as they wore and wore, bets as they were down there are. As part of our reform to combat corruption, number one is the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the second is to amend the Ukrainian Police Act, the third is the new edition of the Ukrainian Pro-Procuratorial Act, and the fourth is the political responsibility of all the political forces that have offered their candidates both to the government, both to the central authorities and to the locations. Without landings, it's not going to work! [[Applause]] The people must see that the commission of the crime is responsible. You can't convince anyone with empty words. As far as the economy is concerned. Thanks to our financial structures, we have managed not only to avoid the default but to retain the national currency. What's our problem now? The problem is that we are limited in the credit resource for the Ukrainian economy. The more the National Bank makes a refund, the more the bracelet pressure goes on the market, the more the bracelet pressure goes on the market, the higher the exchange rate can rise. The less the National Bank provides refinancing, the less loans, the less loans, the less the economic growth. That's why we're in a difficult situation right now, which is that there's not enough lending in the banking system. It's absolutely natural. Since the beginning of this year we have lost almost 20 percent of the Ukrainian deposits. When television shows what Russian troops stand for, when in Slavian, when in Donetsk, when there are fighting terrorists in Lugansk, when there is a simple human sense of fear, people go and make deposits. In total, some 70 billion dollars of these deposits were removed. And this is an economic outflow, and this is an inability to borrow. However, in the background of this painting, we are now experiencing a positive shift. The positive shift is that in the last 10 days, people have started to put money back into the banking system, and the growth is low to 0.4 percent. But we have every 0.01 percent -- that's already positive, that's already hoping that the banking system will start working and that the banking system will start lending again. As part of our work in the Cabinet of Ministers, we must change the whole system of government in the country. We need to adapt it to European standards. Once again, in the face of war, in the face of shooting, in the face of terrorism, it is not easy to do so. But in addition to these tasks, there are strategic tasks – strategic tasks, which are that the model of local and central government must meet the standards that are now in Europe. We have received not only financial but also technical assistance from our European partners. Ukraine's support group in the European Union was created. In each ministry, we'll have expert consultants and analysts who, together with a specially appointed individual, namely, a minister in every ministry of European integration, will change the quality and governance of government authorities. Such tasks are now before this government, and such tasks are now before the country. Our common goal is to save the country. Our common goal is to give the Ukrainians confidence in tomorrow, that is to protect them. This is to help those families who have lost their breadwinner. It is to help those families whose father fought for Ukraine as a hero and died. It's to help every Ukrainian family to feel confident about the Ukrainian future, to feel our shared strength and to believe that behind us all the great future that we are together, as the Ukrainian people, we will make great progress in going through all the trials, all these dramatic pages of Ukrainian history. This is how a nation is formed, that is, through blood, through sweat, through will, through faith, through confidence, and through unity. This is the formula for our success, and Ukraine will be a successful state. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u3	Thank you, Arsenius Petrovich. Dear colleagues, let's sign up from factions to ask questions to the Prime Minister and to the members of the government. When the time is right, it will be possible to sign up for the MPs. Please turn on the "Council" system and record the factions. Chechetov National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u4	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I will not do the equilibristics of the figures that today some experts are trying to convince that the course 8 per dollar over a few years is a bad one, and course 12 is a blessing to the people. I'm not going to comment on that, as I would like to see you tomorrow. I have a specific question for you. To date, industries in the east that have been oriented towards the eastern market are losing these markets. Of course, this leads to an increase in unemployment. Reorienting to the European market is not a one-minute solution, not a one-minute transition, because, as you know, it is related to technical parameters. How do you see the survival of industrial enterprises in the East? And as you can see from the perspective of the coal industry, which is also in these regions, and this is also related to social problems, including the employment of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u5	I can't help but answer all the questions of the Ukrainian national deputies. You made a gold-market trailer, I'll give you a prescription to turn the course from 12 to 8. Find your former leader Janukovich, let 15 billion dollars that have been stolen from the gold reserves and will be back at 8. As far as Donetsk and Lugansk are concerned, the situation is supercritical. In May, we didn't get $422 million from Donetsk and Luhansk. I can give it specifically for companies that haven't been paid, Donbas Energo, 24 million, 36 million Azoves, 122 million Azoves, and a number of other companies. What do we see now? In general, the revenue that we get to the central budget from 2 districts per year is 23 billion dollars, that's from Donetsk and Lugansk, on average over a month, it's about 2 billion dollars per month. We expect that in June we will not get as many as 422, and a billion dollars, which is not so much related to Russia, in Russia I will now say separately, which is primarily related to those terrorists who are financed by Russia. They interrupted the transit, interrupted the normal supply of these companies, and more than that, they intimidate workers, force them not to pay taxes, and actually take jobs in Donetsk and Lugansk. It's going to be a difficult situation, for the most part. We counted the self-sustainment and self-sufficiency of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. In addition to what I told you at the last meeting of the Supreme Council, how much we finance miners, that is, the central budget to support the mining sector per year gives you 34 billion dollars, plus the amount between the only social contribution, that is, that we collect as a tax on the income of individuals the only social contribution to the central budget and we send directly to Donetsk and Lugansk, is 7.1 billion dollars. So today, the self-sustainment rate is 55 percent for Donetsk, and the only social contribution is 60 percent. The same figures are in Lugansk. What is important is the economic element of Donetsk and Luhansk. Currency proceeds. Because everything sold from Donetsk and Luhansk has a currency component. If there's no money coming, we don't have any gold reserves. And that's why there's going to be problems with the exchange rate. So my answer to the situation in Donetsk and Lugansk. Donetsk and Lugansk will not survive without Ukraine. And Ukraine needs Donz and Lugansk. And that's why we won't give it to anyone! [[Applause]] By the enterprises that are located there. What are we doing now? Despite limited resources, the Railway was instructed to purchase everything it could buy from enterprises in the Donetsk and Luhansk region. We realize that we will even have to work in a warehouse. We'll stop the supply, there'll be no money. There won't be any money, there won't be any work. There won't be a job, another 200,000 jobs. So as head of government, I am officially telling you. We will not leave Donetsk or Lugansk alone! This is Ukraine, this is Ukrainian citizens, this is our country!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u6	Next question, national deputy of Goncharov, faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u7	Arsenija Petrovich, government today, society has only sectoral, not unified and analysed information on the state of affairs in the fuel and energy complex and housing and utilities. At the cost of energy resources and services in these areas. There is no general single information on the energy balance, mainly due to the absence of the last. While Ukraine has been hesitant for more than 13 years and still hesitates to make decisions on the implementation of the ESM, the issue is now settled in both Europe and Russia. Feeding, delay and implementation deprives Ukraine of strategic partnership with the European Union countries in implementing investment projects in part of the economic justification for their inefficiency. How will this matter be resolved? And the second. Many citizens are asked to clarify the practical application of the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Financial Disaster and Creation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u8	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u9	How much help and assistance will be given to mothers who are raising their first child, at 1 / 07 By the year 2 years old, the child’s birth payment had ended. And it turns out that they're united into one aid and two to three, people stay as if they had nothing to do with it. Even more so, whether a single contribution is made to public insurance or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u10	Nevertheless, the idea of European integration has even penetrated into the ranks of the Communist Party of Ukraine that the Communists are asking how to make the Ukrainian energy system one that meets European standards. After all, we won. With regard to Ukraine's energy system. First. I'm sure you don't know all the data, but we do. You asked questions about the energy balance. I'm clearly telling you the numbers of the energy balance, for example, the gas. The total amount of natural gas in Ukraine is 20 billion cubic meters [20 billion cubic meters] of gas. At the same time, BlackMornaftegas, which is a state company, extracts 15.3 billion cubic meters of gas. Another 5 billion are extracted by other companies that have both a license and a joint activity and a distribution agreement. As part of our energy strategy, the government has decided to split NAC National Shareholder Naftogaz Ukraine into individual entities, as required by the third energy package. As part of our tariff policy, they often ask why we have the mismatch of tariffs between Ukraine and the European Union. I'll tell you why. Because tariffs for the population in the European Union are several times higher than those for industry. And we have everything exactly, to the contrary. We have a domestic industry, and households are adequately compensated by what is called cross-subsidization. We realize that it is impossible to move on to economically sound tariffs in one step today. A decision can be made, but no one will pay, because people don't have money in their pockets to pay that kind of money. We've raised population tariffs for a bunch of energy products. In order to ensure that those who are unable to pay do not suffer, the government has also decided to introduce a new compensation system. Today, legislation covers 1.2 million families with benefits and subsidies. This is basically about 4 million Ukrainian citizens. After a government decision has been taken, we expect to cover about 4.5 million households with additional benefits and subsidies. This is 30 percent of the population of Ukraine. This is one of the most ambitious social protection programs. To make people understand how it works. We've prepared an information company. So there's going to be roller coasters, social services are already spreading information about who, how, on what grounds and conditions, should go to social services and get the right funding for compensation. As far as the benefits are concerned, including the payment of the child’s birth. You realize that when we passed this bill and in the situation where Ukraine was, we were obliged to do as we did in Europe. 50 percent cut wages, take pensions from all working pensioners, clean up all the benefits and subsidies, and really, make, you know, such a package not just not popular, but terrible reforms. But understanding that it will not only cause social distress, which is primarily unfair to people. We've cut back on the budget. We've increased taxes on big business, not all the time, because there's not enough votes in this room for individual companies. But nothing, we'll go on this way. We set taxes on wealthy Ukrainian citizens. It's time to help the state. And we've left behind a number of social programs, including a social program for the birth of a child. I'm going to remind you that now this social program is not three years old, it's four years old. And for every child we have, we pay 30,000. That's why we kept these payments anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u11	National MP Tomenko, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u12	Arsenius Petrovich, I am in our order of the day. We have an hour of questions to the government today about the use of funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So I think that, indeed, everyone here is convinced that the real Ukrainian army is created by the Ukrainian people not by Parliament, not by government, not by the President's Administration, by the Ukrainian people. Because today both pensioners and entrepreneurs and everyone makes a penny to a penny, a bracelet to pick up the Ukrainian army. And in the background of that, of course, TV footage shocks when we see what products bring to our boys. And the hand stretches, as the classic says, to the gun, during the war of the marauders, you have to shoot who steal what they give up and don't deliver to the boys. I have a question. How it happened. And who recommended the First Deputy Secretary of Defense, Bogdanan Butsu, who is criticized by the President's Administration as an inefficient manager? And what will be done to ensure that our soldiers on Ukrainian soil are well fed and feel secure?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u13	Thank you for asking. So it's about spending. In my report, I noted that we spent $10.5 billion in total to finance national security and defence needs. 6.7 billion is a reserve fund. But spending and spending are two big differences. When I was in Slovenian, no one knew which post I was going to, came directly to the reservation post, and there was no waiting. And I saw it directly, not from the TV, but what happens is that when there was no rotation in the Ministry of Defence system for two weeks, when what they were feeding was hard to call food when there was no health care system, the shoes were not normal. That is why a number of official investigations were initiated after the trip. The low level of officials of the Ministry of Defence has been removed and criminal cases have been investigated by the Military Prosecutor’s Office. All those responsible for the theft of funds, all those responsible for the independent provision of the Ukrainian army of military personnel, are called to account and will be punished by law. As far as the Deputy Secretary of Defense's fate is concerned. Deputy Defence Minister assigned to the previous deputy. It is now being investigated by the service. The first service investigation, I was reported exactly the day before yesterday, according to the first service investigation, we assigned a second one, as it did not establish the facts. So I want it to be honest and transparent. The prosecution authorities are involved in these investigations. Everything will be strictly by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u14	People's MP Bublik, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u16	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u17	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Further to the same issue, since it is of great interest to the Ukrainian public today, the more you announced in your report the release of 6.7 billion dollars from the state budget reserve fund to pay off the military's financial security for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. There is such a proposal that as soon as possible the government will be able to provide public written information on how these funds are specifically spent. In addition, the Ukrainian community has raised about 120 million via text messages, and so people are very interested in how these costs are spent specifically. And there's also information that's delaying towards allocating these funds through the Ministry of Finance, so please speed up this process because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u18	Thank you, Reverend Oleg Jaroslavovich. Not only do I strongly support your position, but I believe that the government and the Ministry of Defense should report where the money is going. So I'm willing to report back to you on June 4, first of all, the sums that came from the citizens of Ukraine. On June 4, 2014, a total of 128.7 million dollars came from natural and legal persons. How are these funds distributed? 121 million for material and technical security. 7.7 million for medical care. The general headquarters, which is not subordinated to the government, but I am ready to report for them, divided the following costs into: of these costs, 30.2 million dollars is a field-based consolidation of a new sample, 28.4 million dollars is a paid cellular helmet, 16.6 million is a purchased high-boiled shoe, 15.1 million is a sleeping bag and insulation pad, 8 million is a form of fleet clothing, 3.8 million is a flight-powered device, 2.2 million is a plastic sheet, 2 million is a plastic sheet, and 0.9 million are blankets and mattresses, cushions, pillows, underwear, 0.1 million is a navigational receiver, 0.1 million is a security barrier, 3.5 million is a masquerade net, 2.2 million is a device of communication, and 2 million is a topographic map. The other 2.8 million are undistributed, and they're going to be directed at 0.7 million to build fortifications and 1.4 million to buy habion. As far as the funds we allocate are concerned. Dear colleagues, we've only bought the BRTs for almost 600 million dollars, plus we have to make about 100 million dollars -- the previous payment for the new armored machines of the Guard. So I'm not talking about the firearms, the 5,000 armored vests bought by the National Guard, the 3,000 armored vests that will now be purchased from Poland and helmets. So the process is going. Of course we weren't ready to act in such conditions of aggressive war, but every day we chase down all the authorities, send the generals to the fields, not to the headquarters, make everyone work. I'm going to thank every Ukrainian national MP, the media, get all the information, show it. It's not a criticism of power, it's a truth about what's going on. I personally respond to every fact, including when the media released information that the dry rations supplied to the Ministry of Defence appeared on a retail trading network, the military prosecutor's office violated the case, and we began to work out whether they were dry rations or not? Just in the morning, I was told by the tax police that they had removed the documentation from six stores where the Internet reported that these dry rations were being sold. According to the documentation, none of these stores have found them to be dry rations. I'm addressing members of Parliament, if there's any information, give them to me. According to the State Customs, we checked it out. On April 12th, 300,000 rations were imported and distributed exclusively to the Ministry of Defense. Help, if there is a fact, in the investigation to bring everyone to justice. And once again, every fact that the media and the national MPs of Ukraine publish is a reaction to every fact. The excuse for 20 years of corruption and three months of change is not possible, the allager com allager. And that's why we're operating in these military conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u19	People's Deputy Rizanenko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u20	Congratulations, Arsenia Petrovich! You know, first of all, positive, that's three, well, as well as greetings with a hundred days, and greetings with the realization that without the landings of corruptionists, and especially their corruptionists in the new government, there will be no change in the fight against corruption. Well, thirdly, judging from the headlines of the newspaper, greetings also with the passing of the test by Firthash. And here I'd like to add some details. You know, I'm on. The heads of the privatization commission and, thanks to our colleagues from Freedom and Fatherland, we've been investigating the issue of the Titanic sector, going around all businesses, realizing that an enterprise that generates $180 million a year seems to be leased by the state for only 10 million. They made an appeal, asked the board, even approved. We made a decision through the commission. We didn't get any answers. And we understood who covered these schemes in the past government. Sadly, we received no answer from the new government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u21	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u22	. Having already made new inquiries and queries. And, you know, at the last minute, that was nice news. But I'd like to ask you to conduct an investigation into who of the officials of the FDM and the Cabinet was hiding their address from the leadership, and they didn't come to you from what I heard from your informal statements. And I also wanted to say that the test by Firtash was not complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u23	Let me finish the question. I'm begging you, cut it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u24	There is also the Zaporozhye Titanogne combination, which is now 49 percent in Firtash. There's also Sumihimprom, which produces titanium proteins, and which is in bankruptcy under Firthash. And then there's Ukrgazenergo, where the state lost $2 billion in 2012. The request is to complete it and return it. We have a budget that can be filled with tens of billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. We announced a course for the demonization of the Ukrainian economy and a real fight against the oligarchy. This course was held on Tuesday at the last meeting of the Ukrainian National MP, Mikola Rudzkowski. Now the strike party also supports. And so in the context of this work, once again, I want to state publicly that the two GOKs who, because of the questionable scheme, were leased to Firthash's companies were returned to state property yesterday by a decision of the government. [[Applause]] As for your concern, absolutely righteous, about other debts. I'll tell you that according to our data, the companies that are related to Dmitr Firthash are responsible for the Ukrainian energy system and Ukrainian energy, about 6 billion dollars. We've started trials at all times and we'll do everything we can to bring justice back, including the Ukrainian economy. And no names are allowed for me, all will now be equal, equal oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u26	National Deputy Donny, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u27	Please pass the word to Victor Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u28	Please turn on the microphone of People’s Deputy Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u29	Arsenius Petrovich, we have a national government today. Speaking of corruption, you said that they were still gathering downstairs, but you didn't tell anyone, please call.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u30	As far as fighting corruption is concerned, as long as we don't take a package of laws and tough decisions, system-wide, we won't eliminate low and medium-level corruption. Do you know who? You're on your own. They're gathering themselves because, unfortunately, these rules have been set by Ukraine over the last 20 years and you're also involved in these rules, like I am. So let's change, and you've also been working somewhere in state companies, you have a bearing on this, you know, you know something about this, help fight corruption, including in the energy sector, with which you're very well known.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u31	National Deputy Kuzmuk, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u32	Arseny Petrovich! The U.S. government has been operating for 100 days, but 100 days, the state is in a state of fierce and hard fighting. Every day in the Supreme Council, laws are reviewed and passed, which we call "defense." Well, I didn't see any use of the legislative initiative by the Ukrainian government under the law of defense during, practically, wars. So the conclusion is that the government did not redesign its position on the defense of the rails. When we passed the law on partial mobilization, I said that we need to clarify the mobilisation plan, which clearly shows what resources and how to supply, as an economy, production to rebuild.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u33	I'm sorry, time's up. Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u34	Next. You reported on the selected ATRs purchased and so on. Where, then, is the refined state defense order that should be placed? We're losing. It's inevitable. But it's the government's job, to control it in time and to set it up in time. Yes, honor and praise, money is set aside and not small, big, but they're singled out. But they're not used. They're distributed because they're not used. And the government has not taken the legislative initiative to simplify the immediate supply of all necessary supplies to the military! We passed the law. But it's not signed. We're willing to compromise. But I demand and appeal to you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, take the legislative initiative. And as early as Tuesday, we should consider such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u35	Let me finish the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u36	Mr. Secretary, the former Secretary of Defense twice, thank you for asking. Your experience, of course, is invaluable in reforming the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. As far as our work is concerned, I think it's probably because of your employment that you haven't looked at all the legislative initiatives that weren't just proposed, but also adopted by Parliament. First of all, it's about the simplified procedure for purchasing any military equipment and property for the Ministry of Defense's needs. Amendments to the Ukrainian State Procurement Act have been made. These changes were not merely made but were voted upon, signed by the acting president. And there's a very separate procedure for public procurement for the Ministry of Defence. Similarly, with regard to legislative initiatives by the government, I do not think you have been informed about our work either. Starting with the fact that we've doubled the retention rate on the mobilized. This applies both to food and to the fact that we have doubled the amount of money we have paid to all military personnel involved in the antiterrorist operation. Everything we've got, we're giving it all up for protection and security. Yeah, it's not that good. And I'm making this public. I'm not a wizard, I'm just studying.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u37	Last question, National Deputy Moskalenko. Dear colleagues, we've run out of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u38	Turn on the microphone. Thank you for your attention, Your Honor! Arseny Petrovich, the Kyiv region of my constituency, is the most affected region of Ukraine as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident. There are 677,000 people in its territory who are entitled to benefits, of whom 155 thousand are children. We have a 936 ruling in the country that guarantees children living with kidney disease free of charge. Last year, practically a campaign to feed Chernobyl children in the Kyiv region was torn by the problems of the very food company Visit, and we saw it on our television screens. These are eggs, for example, in my district of 40 bracelets per ten, which average price was 8, this is Brazilian pork, these are noodles with crumbs. What we see in this year is that this same company is going to win the deal, the deal is already signed for a larger amount -- 110 million. I wish you'd take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u39	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u40	They checked the terms of these trades. The other one. They did answer the question when decentralization would take place, at least in the matter of feeding the Chernobyl children. And one more question. I'm also asking Minister Groysman to do the same. I have a huge problem in my district, this is the mayor of Vishgrad. Which, while we are experiencing a political, first and foremost economic crisis, while our boys are protecting the sovereignty of Ukraine, by silent consent of the courts, is placing 12 plots of land under the construction of commercial structures. And today, I have a letter from Deputy Minister Isenek, who worked under the previous government, where he, by changing the DBN rules, allows me: to reduce the number of playgrounds to serve the inhabitants; to increase walking access to the nearest existing preschool institutions by double; to increase the number of pedestrian access to health care; and to reduce the number of car parking spaces. All of this poses a major threat to the city of High Town. It's a request from the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u41	I'm asking you, rule number, we're running out of time, well, you can't ask questions for half an hour. Please, Arseny Petrovich, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u42	Mr. Jaroslav, I know your concern for the Chernobyls. We spoke to you on the phone yesterday. After our phone conversation, I immediately assigned social policy minister Ludmila Denisov to deal with the situation. Ludmila Leontiyevna, I ask you to come to the people's representative of Moskalenko after the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and report the information: first, by decision of the Chernobyls and second, by the company that won the tender. If there's any evidence of abuse, we've passed the Public Procurement Act. So everything should be checked with the prosecutor's office and reported to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, very many hands. But we're out of time. We worked for an hour of 15 minutes. Let's thank the Prime Minister and the Government of Ukraine, and we wish that for the next 100 days we would not only stabilize the situation in the economy, but also ensure its steady growth. Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u44	Alexander Valentinovich, can I have two words? First of all, allow me to welcome the journalistic community to Journalism Day! They write and show the truth about us. And the second. I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Government of Honorable Mustafa Jemiliev, the Solidarity Award, the Freedom of My People Award!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Let's thank the government. And I fully believe that the entire Parliament joins the greetings of our journalists. Let us also welcome them with applause. [[Applause]] And we want them to always objectively explain all the events that are taking place in Ukraine, including in Parliament. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We need it now. I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement so all the deputies can come to the hall. Please sit down and stay out of the hall. Dear colleagues, it's very important to vote now. Please make an announcement. Please, Your Honor, make an announcement to have all the deputies come into the hall. And now, honourable colleagues regarding the MP's questions, let's look at them before the "Virgin." And now, honourable colleagues, it was called the law, which is very much in store for the Armed Forces of Ukraine. These are changes to some of the Ukrainian Laws on Defence Mobilization Issues during Mobilization (No.4785). Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. This law, you know, we passed with you, we passed. But there is a problem. The problem is that the 11th paragraph of this law provides for a simplified purchasing system. He, on the one hand, duplicates the decision already taken by the Supreme Council, on the other hand, he puts in such a formulation as there is a question of transparency of purchases at all. It's too much of an extension. That is why the government, in view of the availability of this paragraph, is preparing a proposal for the promise of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow this law to enter into force. That is why there is a proposal and it is supported by a profile committee that, within 131 articles of the Rules in order to remove disagreements with the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on improving defence and mobilisation issues during mobilization, the proposal, honourable colleagues, paragraph 11 of this Act is deleted. When we now vote this, today this law will be signed and it will be very much awaited by the Ministry of Defence and the National Guard, all the power structures. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, and we will now hold a vote. The Secretariat is making an announcement so that everyone can come to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Call the people's deputies, please. My colleagues, I say again, I suggest you don't discuss this issue, we've discussed it a hundred times, and now we vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, please, let's go to our posts and now we're going to vote. Dear colleagues, I place, within 131 articles of the Supreme Council Rules, a proposal to exclude 11 items of this law relating to purchases. Dear colleagues, well, I understand that not everyone has come. I think we have enough people to vote on right now. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this proposal by voting. I'll remind you, the 4785 bill has a registration number. Please vote. [[11:22:51]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 64, Party of Regions – 6, Impact – 29, 32 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18, Freedom – 31, Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, I very much ask that we vote on this issue. The law must be signed today, not consecrated. Please call everyone to the hall, your honors, and stop walking in the towers when the Supreme Council is working. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Tuggnibok. I'll give you a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head! There is such a proposal, now part of the Ukrainian National Deputies has somehow begun to move into this room behind the government's bed, obviously wanting to communicate with ministers or with prime ministers. I very much ask you to call those deputies back to the hall, because their work here is all the more so when it comes to the defence of our country. I can't understand how that could be? How is the irresponsibility of the Ukrainian people's deputies when every minute our Ukrainian boys may die, our heroes who fight for us with you, including on our country's eastern front, to preserve territorial integrity? And so the hammocks, the irresponsible thing to do is to walk around here in Parliament, get paid, not vote for things like this, it's not possible. Right back here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u47	Thank you. I fully support, Oleg Jaroslavovich, your statement and ask the secretariat to announce immediately all deputies to the session room. National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u48	Alexander Valentinovich, I am addressing you. Alexander Valentine's Day, right now I got a call from Ravenna, and I wanted to say when the government was here, they're moving people out of their homes again. We passed the Law on the Moratorium. Please, on behalf of all Ukrainian citizens, sign the law today that will enable people to live in peace at the end of the day, and within two weeks we will work out and adopt a new law that will also be passed by banks. It turns out that the executive service, along with the banks and the law enforcement system, is now being bullied by our people. That's the first one. The second question. My fellow Members, I am addressing those MPs who do not vote in favour of the law, if we vote, we will limit the disbursing of the budget, let's do it and show the whole country that we care about the budget. And finally, the Budget Resolution needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you, this isn't about the budget right now, it's about the changes to the law on defence-mobilization issues. Including, of course, it also refers to the cost savings, the efficient, more faithful use of the funds that are directed at our Armed Forces and the National Guard. Dear colleagues, let's make another speech, Mikola Catherinechuk, and we'll make a decision. I very much ask all of you, dear colleagues, to take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u50	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, do you understand that you are now allowing our military to make effective use of all the capabilities of our country to protect our country from terrorists? What's going on? Why 210 votes? If you don't want to work, put your mandates together and throw them in the polls! No, please, we're creating all the deputies of the squad or the militia or whatever, take the vending machines, and please leave! And if not, work in the hall! What is it?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u51	Thank you for your support, dear colleagues. I ask you once again to support the vote on the 11th paragraph of the Law (registration number 4785) so that we can sign it today and the law has entered into force. Please, Your Honor, support the offer. Please vote. [[11:27:45]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you! [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor, this is a very serious aid to our Armed Forces, our National Guards, our strong structures. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, dear colleagues, I will do so during the day. Dear colleagues, I'm back. I have made a proposal regarding parliamentary inquiries and appeals, and we will announce them before Parliament starts to consider the position of "Variance." Now, while we have the inspiration to work and the people's deputies, let's work on the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u52	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I immediately put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u54	So they don't tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u55	No one's going to tell. I put the question to the vote with 131 articles. In general, the law does not require a vote. Under article 31 of the Rules, in the event that the position is withdrawn, the law of re-voting is not required, it is a requirement of the Rules. Dear colleagues, the proposal made by the committee’s authors, who made the first reading of Law 2336a, put it aside for further work. I think we're going to move this law to the next sessional week. Now we have some very complex, responsible laws that relate to one topic. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the uniformity of judicial practice. These are alternative laws 2203, 2203-1, 2356, 3356-2. Dear colleagues, the offer is that we will allow the authors to speak. A representative of the profile committee would then act. And we've decided on this package of laws. In order for all of us to be able to work out laws, there is a proposal to support consideration of these laws by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote, Your Honor, for a reduced procedure. [[11:30:02]] For 172 It's a procedural decision, it's made. Please, Your Honor, I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Mr. Czervolenko Alexander Vilenović.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u56	Good afternoon, dear friends! In our time, we made a mistake that actually ruined the role of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. This actually balanced our entire court system. This was done on political grounds, for the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine was, let us say, not appointed by Yanukovic’s previous authority. So instead of doing what was difficult at the time, we decided to simply circumcise the Supreme Court’s authority. And according to the progressive judges of this Supreme Court, who, if you remember, did not play the final part in the events of 2004-2005. So, in fact, our Bill from Odarchenko is that because we no longer have the conflict that once existed between executive power and the President and. The Supreme Court's judicial system should return to a normal-sized system that would ensure the unity of our entire judicial system. By the way, to make it as it is in most countries of the world, at least in terms of general logic, that is, to restore the powers of the Supreme Court that it has been deprived of in its own time, namely to be the coordinator of this judicial system. Accordingly, the Supreme Court should be formed: the Supreme Court judges, in our view, through the Supreme Council. The Supreme Court should generalize all court practice and have the right to review court decisions, including as a court of first instance. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u58	The whole bill consists of changes to various legislative acts of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u59	Please, I invite you to the roman Tarasovich People's Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u60	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The judicial reform that took place in 2010 made a number of changes in the legislation in force, which led the Supreme Court, as the highest judicial body of general jurisdiction, to be deprived of a number of powers. In particular, regarding the interpretation of decisions, the uniformity of decisions and the possibility for citizens to access a higher judicial system. In this regard, a number of bills have been prepared, are essential, are alternative. Today, the judicial branch of power, which is the highest judicial authority, the Supreme Court, can regain some of the powers that are now essential. Especially when we want to restore trust in the judicial system. So you will have several drafts for your consideration. From the committee, if you don't mind, I'll report on all these bills in more detail. There will be a position both by the Committee, both by the Supreme Court, and by other expert bodies on which legislative document is most optimal and should be accepted at the meeting, I hope today's Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u61	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Philipenka Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are several bills that are intended to settle certain legal gaps that exist in the activities of the Supreme Court. With regard to the bill that was introduced by me and the co-authors, I would like to point out that we are not speaking, we are not talking about any renewal of the powers of the Supreme Court, in this case. The Supreme Court has a fairly broad mandate and according to the Constitution of Ukraine, but in these conditions there is a question of the existence of a real mechanism on the basis of which it would exercise the powers it has. And here we go, many of the bills are actually about the same thing, so make sure that the Supreme Court really ensures the uniformity of court practice. The point is that the Supreme Court’s decisions will be binding on all subjects of authority, in fact we will be adopting one of these bills to come to what is actually, we will have a precedent when the Supreme Court’s decision is universally binding, not only for the first or the appeal court, but for all the public authorities who, on the basis of this decision of the court, decide and if a citizen realizes that in this case the public authority body, the authority body does not act in accordance with the legal position of the Supreme Court, he will have the right to charge such actions or decisions by the authority. Another issue that will be very important and which will contribute to an effective enforcement mechanism, the use of its powers by the Supreme Court. We want to give the Supreme Court such authority, such a mechanism, to determine the subjectivity of matters. The European Court of Human Rights ruled on this, and I will not tell you about it in the absence of time. But the point is, the Supreme Court has to determine what jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u63	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u64	in which jurisdiction must be heard. He has no right to deny a citizen the exercise of justice. Several bills are presented for your consideration. So let's define ourselves. Our group will support the bill that I have tabled in co-authorship with other MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u65	I would like to take you to the words of the National Deputy of Agafone's Natalia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u66	Natalia Agaphonova, impact faction. Much has been said since 2010 about how much the so-called judicial reform has nullified the mandate of the Supreme Court as the higher body of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. What mechanisms were put in place to restrict the actual exercise of the principal powers of this facility. What is an institution of tolerance. When specialized courts decide whether or not to review the Supreme Court case. So our bill suggests that we cancel these really very high standards, which actually, well, make this institution a court, an organ of this, "marriage general," which is just reviewing matters on the basis of the uneven application of material norms. Thus, it is suggested that the Institute of Special Allowance be eliminated. There are also a number of conceptual changes that apply to credentials on the basis of case handling, on the basis of the uneven application of procedural rules. Powers are also being extended. And in fact, as the Supreme Court as the court of general courts, the main court of all general courts can govern the practice of these courts. He can provide an explanation for these courts. Thus, we also want to return this mandate to the Supreme Court. So that he can manage the practice of the courts to the fullest extent possible. It has already been said that there are several bills. We understand that all these bills need to be worked out in order to accept and regain these powers. So we ask you to support our bill in the first reading. And to the second reading, we'll take all the comments that you'll have as initiators in order to, in fact, the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sit down. From the profile committee to the rostrum, I invite the head of the Subcommittee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Montenegro, Roman Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u68	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! You've already heard the co-authors and authors of those alternative bills that are being proposed today for consideration by the Supreme Council. In turn, I would like to prove the opinion of the Committee on Justice and the Rule of Law on these legislative instruments and on the purpose of adopting one of them. Thus, the Supreme Council Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice discussed at its meeting on March 12, this year, all of these bills, which have already been discussed, and all five bills are designed to improve the individual provisions that apply to the legal status and organization of the work of the Supreme Court. All of them are alternatives to each other. At the same time, it should be noted that these bills, which are presented to you, do not fully address the issue, in particular, of the activities and powers of the Supreme Court. At the same time, Bill 2203-1 of 5 March 2014, which was introduced by the People's Deputies of Kosulinski, Romanyuk and Montenegro, is considered to be the most necessary and includes all those provisions concerning the powers of the Supreme Court, in fact, in the exercise of powers concerning the interpretation of legislation, the adoption and the same practice of the application of law in the adoption of judicial decisions. So we think that bill 2203-1 of March 5, 2014 should be considered and the committee believes that it can be accepted as a basis for preparing it for second reading by a reduced procedure of terms. This is the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u70	Thank you. With regard to the Supreme Court’s conclusions, the higher judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction also expresses its opinion that this particular bill 2203-1 should be adopted as a basis and with possible subsequent additions to the reduced procedure. There is also the conclusion of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, which also supports the position that the bill in question deals more fully with the issues raised and has introduced proposals that are also included in alternative bills. So, Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, please consider, in fact, a basic bill. Well, of course, we'll have to put others to the vote. But notice that it is Bill 2203-1 that is now the most acceptable in voting and making decisions. Such a proposal is made by the Committee, the Supreme Court and the Chief Executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u71	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the factions and groups. Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Germany, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u72	Thank you. Deputies of Yemen, Fatherskina faction, Pechersky, Solomonsky and Shevchenkov. Dear colleagues, of course, need a detailed and urgent settlement. Moreover, the point should be that we have at the level of the Constitution to ensure such a regime of judicial authority and the role in it of the Supreme Court, which would correspond to that honourable name, the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Perhaps even some positions with the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine should be reconciled. But this is a matter of the Constitution. The same laws that we are considering today should address such important issues as the unity of judicial practice. It is not possible for judges in various regions of Ukraine to make legal decisions that differ and, in fact, including perhaps procedural decisions. So the question is important. But some aspects of these bills need consideration and further polishing. Therefore, the proposal is to accept it as a basis and to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u73	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Marcinkov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Oleg Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u75	Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u76	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We clearly support this bill. Because we all know that under article 125 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is the highest judicial body in the system of judges of general jurisdiction. And previous reformers who tried to reform the Ukrainian judicial system essentially removed the Supreme Court from exercising their powers by allowing the courts, the higher specialized courts, to allow so-called permission to review the Supreme Court's decisions. And we all know how corrupt this scheme was and how these issues were resolved, especially in the Supreme Economic Court. Like most decisions that did not correspond to those decisions and in general those established by the Supreme Court were not allowed to review those decisions and so on. That is why we are in favour of restoring the powers of the Supreme Court as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction, and the possibility of turning to the Supreme Court as a focal point directly. Perhaps in the future we will also be in favour of amending the legislation on the total elimination of the courts of higher specialized courts essentially as the second cassation chain, it is not necessary. The Supreme Court needs to create a generalization of the practice that will be necessary for all lower courts. There are a few positive points in this bill. It is envisaged that citizens will be given the opportunity to directly apply to the Supreme Court for a review of a court decision. That's definitely what we're going to support. A mechanism is also in place to ensure that decisions of the Supreme Court are binding. To date, the Supreme Court’s decision to review the application for review of court decisions on the grounds that the court has different application of the same rules of substantive law in such a relationship is mandatory for all subjects of authority. At the same time, the procedural legislation does not provide a basis for the prosecution of judicial decisions such as the inadequacy of the Supreme Court’s finding, and this will be provided for. So the possibility of an accusation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u77	Please finish the dates. Everything? Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy of Cibenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to one paradoxical thing in discussing these bills. Obviously, those of us who are familiar with a fairly long experience of parliamentary work can confirm that the judicial system is the course of action to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine is turning more and more frequently. Even so, with every amendment made to Parliament’s legislation, the judicial system is functioning worse and worse. And today the situation seems to be in such a way that it is virtually impossible to change the situation with cosmetic changes. What is suggested by the bill is that cosmetic changes be made, perhaps without question. Thus, radical changes are needed to restore the legal system to its normal functioning. I mean, first of all, the reelection of judges. If a judge stands before the electorate for four or five years and asks for his own support, it may radically change the situation in the judicial system. Because even realizing that there are two sides to any case, and one side usually loses, but the situation that is now in the judicial system, it can't be any more tolerant. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company is in favour of re-election of judges, and then the changes proposed by the bill will not be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who wish to speak. I'm going to ask the Supreme Council apparatus to report once again to the people's deputies who are now outside the session room, which we are about to hold a vote, to invite all the national MPs to the session room, given that it is an extremely important question regarding the generalization of court practice. In order for our citizens to find a suitable solution to their problems in the local courts, to come to the Supreme Court, which could work in a good way today. Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act (registration No. 2203) is proposed: a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the uniformity of judicial practice. The committee suggests that it be adopted as a basis, if you'll excuse me, rejected. I suggest you determine yourself in accordance with this bill. I'm asking the camera to turn on the Rada system. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[11:50:55]] For-45 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 22, Party of Regions – 1, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 5, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 5, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 12. Dear National Deputies! The committee wants to look into it anyway. to postpone the voting of the following bills. [[B in m in s a l in]] No problem, we vote, distinguished national MPs, as you wish. [[B in m in s a l in]] Very nice! We can hear you. Ladies and gentlemen, you see those present in the hall. Please include a microphone of the head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Chernezi Roman Tarasovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, you can see that there are questions about the number of national MPs who are in the session room, and the bills are actually very important. Therefore, we do not want these bills to pass. I have a request to you, Mr. Chairman, that we now, in view of discussing them, but the voting on these bills, we shall have a sessionary week in the next plenary when we have enough votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u81	No, we will put Kosulinski to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of vote, please turn on the microphone. Please come to the rostrum. You're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u82	Thank you, it's already on, and it's not on. I know when it's on. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's entirely fair when we vote for one, we vote for one, we vote for one, we reject one, we reject the other, we don't. So this is unfair to Mr. Blackwolf. I think it needs to be unified, that's the first. But, Mr. Vice Speaker, the key point is, you see, the question is not in the number of deputies. The question is, these are completely different bills, and they want it or they don't want it, but they're going to split the hall. In general, I think that when it comes to such an important issue, when it comes to, in fact, the substance, the principles of the judicial system, there should be a harmonized bill for which 300 deputies vote that the judicial system is not used either by predecessors or successors or, as I said, successors or successors of successors, there is no tool used to oppose another part of society. I'm in favour of an agreed bill, which is voted by the constitutional majority, like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u83	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is on the draft Law. No, we vote. All of it. We all sit down, honourable national deputies, we vote. This will be seen by all the national deputies who are present or absent, the people will appreciate the matter, especially those who have problems with the courts. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (2203-1) amending some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring the uniformity of judicial practice. Recommends that the committee approve as a basis. Please vote. [[11:55:09]] For 111 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 35, Party of Regions – 2, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 23, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 5, Freedom – 34, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 12. Next draft of the Law (registration number 3356). People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[11:55:51]] For 115 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 28, Party of Regions – 16, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 22, Economic Development – 25, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Next draft of the Law from this bloc (3356-2). People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[11:56:30.]] For-64 The decision is not appreciated. Please show by factions. Parenthood – 24, Party of Regions – 1, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 22, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 8. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to return. send to reprocessing for re-readable first reading. All the bills. Is such an offer accepted? I'll bet you a vote for the return. To be sent to the committee to prepare for the re-reading of all of the aforementioned drafts of this block of issues. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:57:30.]] For 178. The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 40, Party of Regions – 19, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 25, Economic Development – 24, Sovereign European Ukraine – 13, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 34, Ukraine’s Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next item on the agenda. We've got two minutes to go. Then, with your permission, I'll call it a 30-minute break. Thank you. I ask you to rest well so that you can join us for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Before we go to reading the MP's questions, two announcements. In accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reports on its exit from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of the 7th Assembly of the People's Chamber of Paraskov, Oleg Dmitrovic and National Deputy Briko Sergio Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, 122 MPs have arrived, and we will now publish them, in accordance with the Rules. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the establishment of a traffic light and light on the route of the Kyiv-Chop route in the village of Głbočica in the Žitomir region of the Žitomir region. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Council, head of the Žitomir District State Administration, to resolve the issue of the allocation of funds for the construction of an underwater pipeline to the village of Velika Kozara in the district of Žitomir. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for supporting and promoting the development of urban enterprises from the coal machine building of mining machines. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues relating to the supply and safe use of nuclear fuel for the Ukrainian AES. Mr. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pension provision of government officials. Vjechaslav Kutov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the operation of an object of increased danger in the Kyiv-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Zelika, Marcinkova, Furmana) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine to determine the rightfulness of the construction of a rural cultural building by the Bukovina Association in the village of Stara Jadova Strážinetsky district of Chernivecko. Valery Ishchenka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine, with extraordinary situations regarding a situation that arose in connection with a natural disaster in the Lviv region. Vadima Merikov to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the immediate use of measures to ensure full pay for workers in the Kazankov region of the Mikolai region in 2014 and to prevent violations of their constitutional rights to pay for work. Vadima Merikov, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Ukraine’s First Deputy Minister of Revenue and Congregations for the Rule of Law of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of the Republic of Ukraine, to verify the legality of the implementation of customs duties by the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine of the planned figures from the census of customs payments to the State budget of Ukraine and to comply with the conditions of customs regimes in accordance with Ukraine’s customs legislation. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Tuberculosis Programme in Ukraine. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on artificial delays in obtaining a certificate of liquidation of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration and financing of the All-U.S. Children's Health Program "The East" and the granting of the East State Hall. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the environmental and social consequences of long-term oil and osokerit production in Borislav Lviv region. Alexander Shevchenk to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the social guarantees offered to diplomatic workers and their families. Peter Zybenk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for answering a number of social issues relating to the respect of the constitutional rights of retired former members of the military. Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to complete the construction of the building of the housing and building cooperative "Polite" of the city of Kirovograd. Andrija Tabalova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of residents of Kirovgrad. Victoria Bullach, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of a citizen of Dechenka in the case of violations of labour legislation by officials of the Society with limited responsibility for the Ukrainian Express. Victoria Balah to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of additional funds to provide essential medicines for children with disabilities in the city of Ohtirka and the district of Ohtyr. Vjechaslav Zadrožno to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget to the local budget for the socio-economic development of the city of Kreto Rog. Groups of National Deputies (Osuhovsky, Zelika, and others) A total of 4 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the impunity of the law enforcement agencies of the Basilk district of Kiev in investigating the seizure of private property. Mary Mathios, under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify the legality of the activities of Ukrainian security officers in the course of the investigation into the case of Artem Bean. Igora Brichenka to the head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with financial legislation by the state-owned company Mikolaiwiska Sea Trade Port in open trade in services between 2008 and 2014. Igora Brichenka is under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state’s financial services markets to take the necessary measures to restore the rights of injured persons who are entitled to insurance and to prevent the discreditation of the insurance market as a result of the wrong actions of insurance companies. Viacheslav Kirilenko is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to verify compliance with legislation in the construction and restoration work carried out in the territory of the Shevchenkov National Reserve during 2010-2014. Victor Pinzenik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the provision of a list of laws signed by the President of Ukraine without written conclusions from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Vasila Petyovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of budgetary resources to the Zacarpathian District State Administration for the implementation of capital and current repairs of highways in the area. Vladimir Yavorowski to the prosecutor of Kiev for signs of corruption and abuse of office by the management of the Municipal Enterprise "Direction for the Management and Service of the Housing Fund of the Desnian District of Kiev", which has concluded an agreement with the Society with limited responsibility for repair and maintenance of elevators in the Desnian region, which has led to a catastrophic condition of the lift economy of the region. Vladimir Yavorowski to the prosecutor of the rightful district of Kiev for gross violations of the terms of the investment agreement by the management of the Society with limited liability for Trade Council and the illegal placement of the MAFs in the underground crossings of the right-wing district of Kiev, which led to the terrible condition of most underground crossings of the region. Eugene Melnik to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the management of the State Enterprise, the Novivolinska Mine Frontier 10 in the Volinsk Region. Anatolia Vitova to the Acting Attorney General of Ukraine for the unlawful possession of the Society's property with limited liability "Ukraine", located in the village of Bayiv, Lutsky district, Volin district. Groups of National Deputies (Ribakova, Pietovka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the constitutional right of Ukrainian citizens to a sufficient standard of living by increasing the minimum wage. Oleg Kulinić to the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals in respect of Payments under a Contract of Bank Accounts. Vasil Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to remove obstacles to the use of his own funds by the authorities of the local government of the Zakarpat region. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the laws of the judges of the Cherkas region when dealing with cases concerning detained "Jeromajdanians" and "automiseds" during peaceful protests in Cherkasa between 23 and 27 January 2014. Anatolia Blissnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide funding to the Pension Fund of Ukraine for pension payments in the towns of Kramatorsk and Slavyansk. Anatolia Bliznika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide funding for the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for social expenses and delegated powers of Kramatorska and Slavyanska cities in full scope and to prevent violations of legislation relating to the payment of protected expenses, including salaries and social assistance to families with children. Vasil Kovac to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the treatment of a citizen named Viacheslav Kulikov abroad. Edward Leonov to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the facts of the robbery at the residence of “Megigira” and the involvement of those responsible. Edward Leonov to Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor of Kiev for the investigation of the situation at the Kyiv Zoo as a result of numerous abuses of his leadership. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the inadequacy of rising prices for transport in the suburban region. Oleg Zarubinski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to evacuate children from the anti-terrorist area. Oleg Bondarczuk to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the illegal actions of officials of the state-owned specialist enterprise "Cornobil Special Unit". Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the need to carry out house checks at the address of Kiev, 123, 125, 127, 129-a, 129-b, 129-b, 131-a, 131-b on the status of objects and cultural heritage and assign security numbers to them and establish the limits of the area of memory protection and the regime for the use of areas of the designated zone. Bogdan Benjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the formation of an immigration quota. John Stoyk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the discharges carried out by the Director of the Lviv Regional Institute of State Administration of the National Academy of Public Administration of the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zagorski. Olga Mikhailenko to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Director of the Department of State Border Protection for the renewal of train stops at Kalanczak Station in the Herson region. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a transparent water extraction scheme and for the establishment of a moratorium on the establishment of a special permit for rural, municipal and processing enterprises. Groups of National Deputies (Moscalenka, Bagraeva, and others) A total of 40 deputies) are under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the raiding of land and the illegal construction of the city of Vishgrad for the participation of the authorities of the State and local self - rule. Yaroslava Moskalenka to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the detection of violations of Ukrainian legislation in the area of public procurement for child nutrition services for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster and the misuse of budgetary resources. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the negative consequences of the restoration of the Kaniv hydroaccumulation power plant near the city of Caneva. Irina Farion to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the activities of the Russian TV channel LifeNews and the release from temporary imprisonment of two journalists on this channel who were accused of promoting terrorism. Irina Pharion to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Ukrainian State Border Service, on the unimpeded export of drones with the bodies of mercenaries to Russia, as well as on the crossing of the state border of Ukraine by vehicles with Russian diverters behind the bribe of Ukrainian border guards. Jurya Crooka and Vitalia Barwinenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the international road "Travel of the city of Reni, in the area of km 0+000 - km 5+600, Odessa region" and capital repair of highways: T-16-30 Strumk – Shevchenkov - Kiya; T-16-07 Ishmael - Kiya - Vilkov; C 161101 Spaszké - Vilkov (town of the Odessa Region Killia). Andrija Mishchenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to ensure the full functioning of the newly created special unit is a battalion of the special task force LIVV. Mikhail Blawajkow to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, acting as Chief of the Department of Revenue and Congregations of Ukraine, in the Odessa region, for the verification of tax evasion and possible illegal activity with the aim of harming the State. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the village of Tristanec in the Canary region of Cherka. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of citizens of the Public Housing Program 70 by 30, which is being implemented in accordance with Cabinet Order No.1249 of 11 November 2009 and No.140 of 11 February 2009. Catherine Vaschuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the social protection of participants in the elimination of the accident in CHAES Volinsk, Ravensk and Chernig. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the incomplete and not comprehensive investigation by the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of the illegal removal of the premises of the post office of Kryiv-54, which serves some 18,000 Kiyev companies and more than 1200 Kiev enterprises, by means of a criminal scheme which includes the illegal recognition of ownership of the specified premises with further illegal transfer from one commercial structure to another. Yurya Drevijanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that real estate documents can be drawn up for real estate (land plots, residential buildings and buildings), located within the protection zones of the highway pipelines and to reduce the boundaries of the security zones of the highway pipelines within the existing construction site of the village of Battleków and the village of Paszicko Supervirnjan district of Ivano-Frankiv region and the city of Borislav Lviv. Ruslan Zelik to the acting head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the illegal activities of the monopolistic public stock company Odessaoblanergo. Jury Bublika under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Defence Minister for non-compliance with obligations of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence under a contract for joint action with the Cordel Society with limited responsibility. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the illegal annulment of the license of the Private Higher Education Institute of the Polish Institute of Economics and the management of the "Swittoch" for the right to carry out activities in the provision of educational services, specializing in the "Organization of Production" by officials of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Mikhail Golovka, head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the possibility of issuing cash by banks to Ukraine’s milk processing enterprises. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the refund of the salary allowance to pedagogical workers. Alexia Kayda, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the use of the banking system for illegal financial transactions, the implementation of corruption schemes by banks called Krukgazbank, Globe and Centre. John Stoyk to the head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency on repairing the road to the state importance of the Tousté - Borschev R-24 Ternopil region. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine on the introduction in Ukraine of systematic work on the development of children's sport and the creation of accessible infrastructure for sports of all Ukrainian citizens. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on payment for decisions of the courts of pensions to citizens who have the status of “children of war” under the Law on the Social Protection of Children of War. Oleg Tajnibok and Ruslan Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a change in the legal and regulatory framework to optimize the possibility of moving to individual heating for residents of apartment housing. Jury of Orotyuk to the Acting Prosecutor - General of Ukraine, head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, for the verification of violations and official negligence of officials of the State Border Service of Ukraine. Jurya Orotyuka to the Ukrainian Minister of Health for the provision of medical equipment to the Chigirin Central District Hospital. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the proper medical care of the inhabitants of Lubenski, Velikobogačany, Orgitski, Seminowe and Horol region of the Poltava region, for the availability of medical services for people who are in difficult circumstances and need treatment at State expense. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, for the payment of debt from different tariffs on thermal energy, centralized water supply and water supply services produced, transported and supplied to the population, which was caused by the inadequacy of the actual value of thermal energy and central water supply and water supply services to tariffs approved and accepted by the local government authorities in Lubna. Victor Gubar under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for failing to comply with the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation by the Public Stock Company Ukranafta for the sale of all commercial natural gas of its own production to meet the needs of the population. Mikli Dzardanov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the restoration of the status of Judge Valery Frolová. Oleg Pankević, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the corruption of officials and deputies of the Herson District Council, state officials of the free and controlling authorities in the area. Oleg Pankević, acting as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the purpose of serving as Consul General of Ukraine in Barcelona, Alexander Hripunov. Omelana Parubka, under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, to take immediate action to resolve the issue of misconduct by the Society's officials with limited responsibility, Elite Stall. Ruslan Lukyanczuk is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the threat of life and health to the inhabitants of the village of Popljena (Zitomir Region) as a result of the operation of a company that stores and leases mineral fertilizers. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the solution of the urgent issue: the protection and security of citizens. Sergey Kaplina to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to carry out checks on violations of current legislation by the management of the Public Shareholders Association "AutoKRAZ Bank" in the city of Kremenchuk Poltawsk. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to carry out checks on violations of current legislation in the Department of Personnel Security of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Irina of the Coastal Health Minister of Ukraine on the use of emergency measures aimed at creating the right conditions for effective and accessible medical care for hemophiliacs. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation at the Suma State Teacher's University of Anton Makarenko. Sergey Firemarck is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the financing of defence projects. Sergey Balandin, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine for the capture and maintenance of armed terrorists in masks of the Dnipropetrov City Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine on 26-28 May 2014 and the re-enlistment of this building on 28 May of this year. Oleg Bukhowitz to the head of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the settlement of the issue of the issue of the provision of family information to residents of apartment buildings living in apartment buildings on Bjilostation Street in the city of Meref Kharkiv district. Valentina Kraluk to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Consumer Protection Inspectorate of Ukraine in relation to the inactivity of the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Consumer Protection Inspectorate in the protection of citizens against commercial banks. And the final request, the honourable national MPs. Victor Gubar to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inaction of the coworkers of the Kyiv Public Prosecutor’s Office in the case of citizen Volodymira Yakoveva. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the MPs you've sent over the last period. Well, I'll start with eight minutes until 13th. I suggest we use this time in your questions and speeches. Therefore, I invite all the national MPs who wish to participate in the presentation in our agenda today's item, "The Different." Please hold the recording. Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies of Kaplin. Prepare the National Deputy for Illenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u85	Dear Ukrainians! Dear voters of Poltavian! Dear colleagues! It's been exactly 100 days since you and I elected a coalition, formed a coalition, and elected the Prime Minister of Ukraine and formed a government. I should say that the 100 days of the Prime Minister’s work were 100 days, unfortunately, of imitations of reforms. Most Ukrainian citizens today are concerned about the question and the answer to the question of whether there is a Prime Minister for Reform: such a reform plan, which was in Roosevelt's time "New Course", in Baltzerovic; such a reform plan, which was proposed by Singapore's great reformer Li Kuan U. The main issue that concerns Ukrainian citizens, when will reforms take place in the country? When those 23 - year - old belts are tied, ordinary Ukrainian citizens will be able to let go for the first time. Unfortunately, not today, not yesterday, not the day before, not the date of the appointment of the Prime Minister, we received no answer to that question. Similarly, Ukrainian citizens are concerned about the question: when the Prime Minister of Ukraine begins a real great domestic war against corruption, which he has promised since his march to the Ukrainian Presidents. We can only say that corruption in government authorities has increased. Moreover, Ukraine has found itself in the midst of political corruption. Once again, they buy and sell jobs, people are again appointed for money, people are again ignored, and illustrations are sabotaged. Moreover, the government, in conspiracies with Parliament’s leadership, sabotages the adoption of the main requirement of Ukrainian citizens — a law on illustration. Several such laws have been developed, particularly mine, which I call revolutionary, which should be completely cleared of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government, the district administrations, the sanepidemstations, all those associated with the Yanukovich regime, the KGB and the Kremlin. And the last. Today, together with you Ukrainian citizens, we must do everything we can to clean up Parliament. I've already created in Ukraine, in every area, and I'm continuing to set up in the district centers on behalf of the community of common people, which I lead, strike committees for national organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u86	If you could just finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u87	Demanding a strike and demanding the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Also, with the opportunity, I welcome all journalists with a professional holiday. And the last. Our faction is definitely against any parliamentary holiday. We should not leave the Parliamentary Hall and rest, we should work and fight for the lives of ordinary Ukrainians. I am convinced that our initiative is supported by colleagues from Fatherland, Freedoms, all participants, without exception, by the parliamentary coalition. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u88	I invite you to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Illenka. To prepare for the people's deputy, Dzardanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u89	Andrew Ilyenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I would also like to speak a little bit about the work of our Parliament, and of course this is a very correct idea that there is no need today, not even a language, of which there is no parliamentary holiday, but such a feeling that the absolute majority of the national MPs, it is already making a holiday and during the plenary session that is currently taking place, we see an almost empty hall and in fact this is some manifestation of the reality of today's situation, when our heroic soldiers are now protecting Ukraine in the east of our state, and the Ukrainian Parliament is demonstrating a completely inequitable level of work. And what I'm saying is that not only are we today not adopting the important bills that are needed today, which, in particular, our faction is putting out as immediate as necessary for adoption. Similarly today, we see idleness when MPs allow themselves to be separated while doing things, where there is nowhere to go, an empty room is not accepted by important bills, there is no voting. Well, people look at it and just spit, because they don't understand why they get paid to MPs, what they do, if they don't even go to work, they can't just sit down until the end of the day. Although today is a short day, there are almost no deputies in the hall. So, society, this also implies other aspects of the work of the Supreme Council today. Once again, in the media, this is being discussed very seriously, we know that it's true that it's happening again, like MPs, who go to certain MPs for money, who get an unofficial salary out there, out of tens, hundreds of thousands of dollars, and so on. Well, it's clear that in these circumstances, the work of Parliament really doesn't need anyone. And I want to say lastly, today, the bill that was to be considered in the first reading, 2336a. And I want to say, as a person who is one of the co-authors of this bill, that I have signed a completely different bill than the so-called advanced version that they've been trying to do at the meeting today. Because that bill was supposed to solve people's problems. It is the ability to exercise constitutional law and to register for a real place of residence. And then there are points that actually create a field for corruption, for different black schemes, that actually destroys the legal base on housing issues. And that's why our faction today is opposed to what's being manipulated, and the bill changes as they go through committees or anywhere else. It's a completely abnormal practice and it has to stop. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u90	The people's deputy of the Dzardaniov is invited to attend. Prepare the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u91	I would like to give the floor to my colleague Victoria Bullah, representative of the legendary Ohttirka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u92	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u93	Dear fellow national MPs! Several months later, images from the mouth of the pro-dominant politicians are heard at the address of the Communist Party in Ukraine. This rhetoric of baseless accusations no longer works. After all, you have been in power long enough for the people of Ukraine to appreciate the consequences of your rule itself. Instead, the only thing I fear, not the last result of your activity, is the loss of Ukraine's territorial integrity, the outbreak of civil conflict in society, not to mention the crisis in all areas. And all you do is blame the predecessors, the Communists. The hysteric that you demonstrate every day in the Supreme Council in relation to the Company speaks of your complete helplessness and incompetence. Today, your people are on every chain of power. And you have the audacity to find out publicly where the funds from the budget have been distributed and gathered from the common people for the needs of the Ukrainian army. It is you who are dividing the people of Ukraine into separatists and non-Separatists according to the criteria only you know. And we Communists ask us to stop the fratricidal war, the so-called terrorist operation against our own people. Maybe human life is worth nothing to you, but for families who, because of your ignorance, lose family and loved ones, it's an indescribable grief. Today my nephew also serves in Luhansk, and every day, every minute of his life, as well as the lives of millions of people in the ATO area, hangs on his hair. If your family were in hot spots right now, I'm sure you'd say otherwise. But your parents aren't there. That is why you are so determined and in principle demanding that fighting be intensified in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas. The only way to prevent so-called separatism is to work daily and work hard for the benefit of your people, not your own business interests. To carry out such an activity that it is acceptable and understandable for every citizen from the West to the East. Do not give talks by constantly criticizing and insulting each other, simply do better than your predecessors so that the people of Ukraine can see what you are capable of. And finally. If you do not respect Communists, respect at least 3 million citizens who voted for us. It's a fact you can't count on whether you like it or not. Thank you for your attention! Miroshenko! Learn to respect your colleagues! You're looking at the entire area of Sumska!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u94	May I have the floor of the People's Deputies of Chechtov to prepare for the People's Deputy of Popescu. The Chechetov National MP hands over his right to speak to the national deputy of Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u95	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, my dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the acute problem that concerns hundreds of thousands of young families all over Ukraine -- the lack of places in kindergartens. In the early 1990s, Ukraine experienced a sharp demographic decline in the face of a severe economic crisis. Between 1990 and 2001, the country’s birth rate dropped from 657 thousand babies to 370. As a result, hundreds of kindergarten facilities were closed and their maintenance became a burden for the enterprise, and the state saw no point in spending money to support empty groups. Nearly 50 percent of the gardens were taken into private hands or dedicated to utilities. Of the 24,000 facilities that worked in Ukraine in 1990, only 14,000 remained in 2004. After 2007, birth rates began to rise and now reached half a million babies a year. But the pace of construction and the restoration of kindergartens does not match that dynamic. Currently, there are 16.5,000 children’s institutions in Ukraine, covering only 60 percent of children of the right age. The shortage of places leads to overcrowded groups, where instead of 25 babies are found in their 40 ’ s. The staff is overloaded, the parents are unable to arrange the baby for the children’s home, even if they are in line immediately after his birth. I've studied this problem in my district in Dnipropetrovsk, and I've seen mechanisms that will help in a short period of time to relieve tension and increase the number of places in children's homes. This is to create, this is to make the creation of additional places in kindergartens a priority in the work of local self-government authorities and deputies of all levels. Audits should be carried out on unbuilt, closed, emergency nursery facilities. In each city, a locality creates a program to create additional places in kindergartens and to build new kindergartens. As a result, I am ready to act in my native Dnipropetrovsk. If colleagues from other cities, villages and villages are looking at specific objects, we will solve 30 to 50 percent of the overall problem in the near future. We must take concrete steps today, creating normal conditions for the upbringing and development of small, small Ukrainian citizens. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u96	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Popescu. To prepare for the People's Deputy, Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u97	Thank you. Popescu, Cherniewec region. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. On the eve of the presidential elections in Chernobyl, the leadership of the regional association "Romania Community of Ukraine" met with Peter Poroshenko, who was elected President of our country on May 25th. Tomorrow, the fifth president of an independent Ukraine will make an oath to the Ukrainian people, citizens of all nationalities. And today I would like to inform you about the problems that were discussed during that meeting. They were linked, first and foremost, to the ways of descalement and peaceful settlement of civil conflict, the stability of the socio-political situation and the economic development of the country. The focus was on international relations, the national cultural development of traditional national minorities, and particularly the Romanian population. The candidate for President of Ukraine assured him that he would take concrete steps to overcome the crisis, accelerate European integration and liberalise the EU visa regime. At the same time, in answer to the question, Peter Poroshenko assured that national minorities would be protected in accordance with the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minority Languages, the existing network of education, language of national minorities, and so on would be preserved. Efforts will also be made to improve the interstate relations between Ukraine and Romania and the Republic of Moldova to introduce a regime of small border movement between Ukraine and Romania, and to restore border crossings, including in the village of Krasnoylsk, Djakovci and others. The future president of Ukraine also assured a Romanian - speaking community that he would not allow hardships in relation to our traditional Canonical Church. That was promised. The election's over. The vast majority of the Romanian community, which most of those who took part in the vote, voted in favour of Peter Poroshenko, who, by the way, speaks Romanian. From tomorrow on, Peter Alexiyovich will become president of Ukraine. And with his entry into office, we have the hope that, for the first time in this year, real efforts will be made to settle the crisis peacefully, so that Ukrainians will not perish in the territory of their country, so that mothers will stop worrying about their mobilized children so that no one will be humiliated or forced to assimilate. And may the Lord God give wisdom and power to the President to achieve peace, peace, stability, and to make everyone feel that the new President creates all the conditions for every Ukrainian citizen to feel protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u98	I would like to take you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Shapovalov. Prepare the national deputy, Demedyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u99	Yuri Shapovalov, 146 constituency, Kremenchuk, Poltavsk district Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Today, in Kremenchuk, most of Ukraine’s cities, there has been a difficult situation in the field of water supply and water supply. Because of the inadequacy of tariffs, the actual cost of Cremenchukvokkanal services has worked for a long time. The company's main debt is paid for electricity, and today it's worth about 48 million dollars. Subsidies from the State budget to cover the difference in tariffs are not available to the company because of the inadequacy of the actual cost of services. Today, the nation’s total debt to the water canal is more than 55 million dollars. As a result, thousands of cremants may be deprived of regular water supplies. I appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately repay the Cremenchuquecanal debt for the difference in tariffs. I would also like to point out that in the city of Kremencucci, with a population of more than 225,000, no city prosecutor and police chief have been appointed. These posts include temporary appointees, and I demand that the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs be appointed as soon as possible to appoint a prosecutor, Kremenczuk, and the head of the City Police Department. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u100	I would like to take you to the words of the national deputy of Demedyuk, to prepare for the national deputy of Hajudesh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Mikhailenko Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u102	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u103	Olga Mikhailenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today, we are faced with numerous appeals from local authorities, the MPs of local councils on peace and tranquillity in our country. They're asking us to stop the bloodshed, and they're asking us to do so, and social organizations, particularly the Mother of Ukraine social organization. They suggest reforming after peace and reforming people’s interests. And today they demand that we be resolved by people who really care about our voters today. And one of the things I want to talk about today is the insufferable work of rural utility companies that provide water and water services and that are now suffering from the acquittal of officials all the years of our country's independence. Today, we want to know if our government officials know that six, four and two hours a day are served in the Hersonian Steppes and in some villages. But everything they earn is basically going to pay for energy carriers, whose cost is constantly increasing. And the procedure for developing a special permit for nadra, a utility, has been driven to a dead end. In the references, in particular, TOV Chaplin Communicator and Pat Chaplin Oilworks, it is said that the utilities have already paid 200,000 dollars for this permission. After that, they are required to pay a significant amount for geological information, then for monitoring from 70 to 150 thousand, then for the cost of restocking for three years, ranging from 150 to 250 thousand dollars. On such loading, the cost of one cubic of water after obtaining such a permit will be 15 bracelets instead of four. What kind of rural family today will endure such a payment for water at low wages and pensions? And how to survive utilities, when environmental inspection is worth a million dollars to the state, and for processing companies like Chaplin Oilworks, water is already 60 dollars a cube, and it's all translated into the cost of production. Therefore, I ask the officials to take steps to establish a simple one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u104	Please finish. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u105	Please ask government officials to take steps to establish a simple and transparent system of water production at a reasonable price and to initiate changes to legislation for establishing a moratorium on the formulation of a special permit for rural utilities or, in the event of a minimum wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u106	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Geidosh. Prepare the National Deputy Osaulenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u107	Thank you. Istvan Haydosh, "North European Ukraine", Zacarpathia. Cross-border and cross-border economic cooperation is extremely relevant to Carpathia. This would be an important point in the "Lujanka-Beregsuran" crossing on the Ukrainian-Hungarian border. However, it is limited in freight traffic, since the Ukrainian side does not provide adequate infrastructure, including the completion of the construction of a road around the town of Beregov. The construction of this road began in 2008, and a lot of work was done, but then it was frozen. Because of its lack of movement of large - scale means of transport, it passes through the central part of the town of Berogova. Not only is the architectural heritage destroyed but road coverings, buildings, and air pollution are increasing. During the last meeting of the heads of government of Ukraine and Hungary, the parties signed a Declaration of Purposes that supported the implementation of this important project. As a result, a recent meeting between the head of the Zacarpathian district administration and the director of the Department for Strategic Development of Roads of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine and representatives of the Government of Hungary reached an agreement on the provision of financial assistance to Hungary for construction and repair of the 1540 km road in Zakarpatta, including the construction of a road around the coast. The Ukrainian side has committed itself to starting work in the autumn of this year. I would also like to add that in an interview with the media, the Prime Minister of Ukraine responded favorably to this Ukrainian-Hungarian project. Construction of a roadway. And the next introduction of a full load movement at that point would give a new impetus to the development of the whole Carpathians, a region that could be more involved in transport flows and economic cooperation between Ukraine and Hungary. And these are new investments, new jobs, new budget revenues. So I ask the government to take all measures to implement this international project with Hungary with a view to continuing and completing the construction of the road around the city of Zacarpathia. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u108	May I have the floor of the Osaulenka People's Deputy. Prepare the national deputy of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u109	Taras Osaulenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" brings to your attention the need for Ukraine to join the International Maritime Labour Organization Convention, so-called the ILO-2006 Convention. Almost all of Europe’s marine states have become parties to this Convention. This is about the need for further employment of more than 80,000 Ukrainian sailors in the international seamen’s market and more than $1.2 billion in annual earnings in Ukraine. In line with the position on the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, approved by Presidential Decree No.389, No.389, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine is the main body in the system of central executives for the formation and enforcement of public policy, in particular in the areas of employment and labour migration, labour relations, social protection. The Ministry of Social Policy, together with the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, is doing insufficient work on the ratification of the Convention. In August 2013, the Ministry of Social Policy prepared and sent to interested ministries a draft Ukrainian law on ratification by Ukraine of the International Maritime Labour Organization Convention. On 2 September 2013, the Ministry of Infrastructure agreed on the project and made proposals for regulatory acts to be amended in the event of accession and the financial and economic calculations of the costs required for the implementation of the Convention. Until now, the question of becoming a party to this Convention has not been resolved. As a result, there are thousands of Ukrainian seamen who could have been assigned to overseas maritime companies who have not signed the aforementioned Convention without a job. In the light of the foregoing, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" proposes to the Government of Ukraine to prepare regulations for speeding up the Ministry of Social Policy with Ukraine's accession to the Convention, to identify this ministry as responsible for the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification by Ukraine of the International Maritime Labour Organization Convention and the competent authorities to implement the requirements of the 2006 ILO Convention. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u110	I invite you to speak to the national MP, Goncharov, to prepare for the Black People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u111	Dear Chairman, colleagues, inhabitants of Gorlovka City! Today, in the country's political life, the key issue raised by our voters, politicians of different opinions, experts, these are the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to local authorities and only in a peaceful state. By objectively evaluating the entire territory of Ukraine, more than 70% of the population support the issue. My opinion is that I am responsible for the peace and transformation of the legislative and executive powers. But let's be clear that the election is just for the election and the change of face, it's not right. As a result of the elections, professionals should come to power. In support of this position, I will give a specific example. Yesterday in Parliament we reported on the basics of fiscal policy for 2015, in fact it's not a confirmed task, obligations, plans, empty conversations, because by 2015 we are again planning a budget deficit of more than 50 billion dollars, and then by adopting such a deficit, we start looking for funds in external partners, and for our people we're sending answers that there is no money to develop local infrastructure, the money is just to pay the social sector's wages. And so on every level, power, in the village, in the city and in the area. Counting all of this, which is not news to each of us for two decades now, I will note that every city head, district head, professional minister or deputy should present a financial balance programme for the settlement where he chooses. So let me highlight: financial balance. That is when all the promises made by the candidates that the roads, roofs, elevators, health and education will be fulfilled. Otherwise, once we've made the elections, we'll get representatives of the government again, who have no funds at all, citizens of Ukraine will lose confidence in their own institutions of the state forever. Please take this into account and consider when making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u112	Thank you. May I have the floor of the Black People's Deputy. Prepare the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u113	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! In the Ukrainian rebel army, which was considered one of the world’s most disciplined armies, human life was considered the most valuable. Ukraine’s insurgents did not die without control in the past century. For each person who died, there was an act and the commander was responsible for what happened, why the fighter was lost. And today, so many acts, such documents, we can read in free competition museums, we can see in those archives that have been looked for since the last century. But when we look at the events that are now taking place in eastern Ukraine, frankly, it is not always certain that such an attitude toward Ukrainian fighters is at present. It has been two weeks since the tragedy under Volnovah took place. I'm going to remind you that 18 people have died, I'm going to remind you that more than three dozen people have been injured, that today doctors are trying to save those guys whose eyesight, who are trying to save their limbs. Because, in fact, there have been terrible injuries. Sadly, though, we have not yet heard that someone who sent those fighters to the ATO area was justly punished. And we don't see the one who sent the fighters into the ATO zone putting their officers in. Because we remember that when answering the questions of journalists, when answering the questions of MPs, the Defense Minister stressed that one of the reasons for this terrible tragedy was that young, unshot, 22-year-old boys were sent to the anti-terrorist area. Just as a respected society could have done so, the Lebanese bordermen fought for 12 hours and no one came to their aid. Because they fought on Ukrainian soil, they fought on their land, but on some deserted island. Why we have not yet received an answer to the question: What has happened, how has guidance been conducted at this time? And how Ukrainian mothers should feel when they know that no one is being punished for such acts. The greatest values for today, a respected society, are the Ukrainian land and our Ukrainian people. And today, on what is happening in eastern Ukraine, after every absolute death, Ukrainian society has to have the answer, whether it's really a fatal coincidence, or someone's mistake, a tactical error. Because the most precious thing we have today is human life.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u114	Please finish. May I have the floor of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. To prepare for the people's deputy Sameilenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u115	I wanted to ask this question today to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Failed. Actually, I've been asking this question for years. It's embarrassing. Apparently, it causes him to say no, including many in the hall. Many who were in power, who are now in power, who will be in power tomorrow. It's about what's called voucher privatization. This is a huge cynical and insolent fraud committed against millions of Ukrainian citizens and my dead parents, including in the 1990s. When ideologies and implementers of this scheme have led to the fact that since then in Ukraine, the gap between wealth and poverty has become more orderly than in any other country, including the European country. I realize that this is an unpleasant question for many who today are the owners of newspapers, factories, steamboats, factories. I understand that this is an unpleasant question. But it's the same thing. Because if you look at the root and look at the causality, the result of today's social tension is largely related to the reason that a huge part of society's wealth has gone to the hands of a very small part of people. How? It's because of voucher privatization. So without any money, by buying, and often simply taking, God knows how these so-called invented certificates, someone has acquired huge businesses, factories, factories that have been built for decades by many generations of Ukrainians, our citizens. These are huge areas in the city centers! And that's a huge resource potential! These are huge rooms! I'm a man, respected colleagues, bloodless, and I'm not saying that we need to put them down now, that we need to hang them, that we need to shoot them, and so on. But if there is such a gap, and if someone has become very rich with these voucher certificates of millions of people, I would like to go to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and say, "Please do a compensation scheme." Compensate for those who have become factory owners, factories, territories, shipyards, God knows what, make up for those who have given you this certificate of their time out of ignorance. This is a question I want us to raise in Parliament! And I think those who remain here understand the importance of this issue. Therefore, Your Honor, the presiding officer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u116	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u117	I'm very much asking that that draft ruling that I'm about to present, I think my colleagues are going to raise, about serious parliamentary hearings about the consequences and the removal of the negatives of the voucher privatization in this room, so that there are those who won the privatisation of this voucher and who lost. I ask you to support this motion for a ruling. All of them, regardless of political sympathy and antipathy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u118	People’s MP Samuelenko is invited to attend. Prepare the national deputy for Lopachak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of health today. You know that many laws have already been passed in this room. Parliamentary hearings took place. But things are not getting any better in our medicine. The situation is getting worse and the death rate is rising. Each year more than 700,000 citizens die. In order to prevent this, the authorities will eventually have to listen to the voice of Communist MPs who continue to demand the abolition of the anti-national medical reform, which continues to destroy everything we had. It is no exception that our Gitomir region, where, without waiting for the results of the so - called pilot project, began to reorganize, to shut down medical facilities. I realize that this is not done on the initiative of the local authorities, but on top of the hospital’s closures, people are expelled from the street, and people are left with the constitutional right to treatment available. This has also happened in Bondars, Velidniks, Ignatpols, First Level, Nova Borova, Doubushi, Jaroni, other settlements that have become better off in the infirmary, or even ceased to exist. In turn, the district and the city hospitals are scheduled to form medical districts. And in half of these areas, both the surgical, traumatological, and neurological divisions will disappear. Instead, new government services are being established. Instead of one chief physician, there are two, three, as many accountants as there are lawyers, a bunch of other services that cost the state in the same small area as our Wonderland at least half a million dollars a year. And if you count it in Ukraine, it's billions of wasteful expenses. Reasonable question: Is it better to use them to expand and strengthen the functioning of the base and to abolish the med reform? With regard to the closure of the hospitals, I repeatedly approached the Ministry, and the response was zero. Perhaps the new headmaster will regain courage and say with a full voice: Disgusting reform — no. Together with the authorities, he will build new hospitals, and he will do so, as in Europe, which is being dragged into the arcan, so that there will be three, not one, for 12,000 people. Don't forget about FAPs in the villages. Change the ministerial condition that they have to act where more than 300 people are absurd. What's more, for our area, which is Chernobyl, this demand is almost 300 closed FAPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u120	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u121	The consequences of introducing a seven - percent VAT are also questionable. Drugs, drugs, and drugs increased by 50 percent or more, and in the pharmacies of the city of Zitomira, there was a declaration that patients were given free of charge to dispense drugs. So I think we need to fix all these flaws in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u122	The people’s deputy, Lopachach, is invited to attend. Prepare the National Deputy for Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u123	Markian Lopaczak, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! I would like to pay particular attention to one of the requirements of the Dignity Revolution, namely, the fight against total corruption that has grown in the central authorities and in particular local self - government. In particular, I wanted to draw attention to a number of incidents that took place in the city of Lviv. Since 2011, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union in the Lviv City Council has raised the issue of corruption in the municipal property of the city of Lviv. As early as 2011, a house on the street of Shevskya 1, which was 1,850 square feet [1850 sq m], was approved by the faction, which predicted the removal of this building from the list of objects to be privatized. On December 23, 2011, the Lviv Regional Economic Court overturned the approval, and more than that, on February 27, 2013, the Lviv Court of Appeal and Economic Court upheld the decision of the Economic Court. So Lviv University "On the Market" decided to steal cynically from the community's property and at a price of 3.5 thousand dollars per square meter in the Market Square in Lviv, it was actually sold. For three years we've been trying to get the culprits to be punished, and just now in 2014 there's been a drop in the value of the building by more than 1.7 million dollars, the director of the evaluator's enterprise has been reported as suspicious and criminal conduct and pre-trial investigation have been initiated. There is also a violation of municipal property rights under false court decisions. During the past three years alone, there have been about 30 cases of law enforcement in the city of Lviv. In 2013 in particular, Lvov’s three - building buildings in Lviv along the street of Subotów, Shiroki, and Air were owned by counterfeit circuit courts. As the prosecution’s audit found, the cases in question were not actually brought before the court. This same year, according to false court decisions, natural persons recognized ownership of a building on the street of Turjanska and the Croatian Shevchenkov district of Lvova. And I'd also like to point out separately, actually, when we're talking about building a new country right now, and all of the Ukrainians are actually hoping that these ideals that they stood for on Maidan, they're going to be embodied. I want to go back to the question of building a stadium until Euro2012 in Lviv, including an increase in the cost of building a stadium every month. Also, no one has responded to this day, how about 30 hectares of land were allocated to the community, and 130 million dollars, including 90 million dollars of that amount, have been taken into credit for which the city still pays interest. A territorial community.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u124	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u125	is not allocated a share in the building’s ownership, and the relevant executives have not issued a request to the central authority. It should be pointed out that the perpetrators of these violations must be held accountable regardless of their political affiliation or status in the public authorities. Or local self-government. In view of this, we call on the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Henprocuratorate and demand that comprehensive measures be taken to protect municipal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u126	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u127	The property of the community of Lviv, the involvement of those responsible and the removal of the causes and conditions that contributed to the violation. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u128	People’s deputy Furman is invited to attend. Prepare the People’s Deputy, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u129	Respectable Society! I have received an appeal from the unsettling residents of the Winnicki district who are outraged by the signing of the so-called "investment contract" for the construction project of the "Academic" residential area between the Vinicki Paradise and the private concert "Department". In 2007, as vice-deputy of the Vinnitz Paradise, I remember very well how the head of the private concert "Department" Timothy Girenko strongly urged the deputy corps to go to the meeting and include within a population of 85 hectares of land that he was to build under the residential structure that he rented at that time in the village council. In turn, Mr. Girenko made a commitment to hand over the Winnietsky District Council 500 square metres free of charge. Mr. Hirenko forgot his commitment to the private concert "Divilla" for free to give the territorial community of the Winnicki district 500 square metres of non-residential space. After becoming a member of the district council of the Party of the Regions, he began throwing letters to the circuit board calling for a break in the investment agreement. He needed the crowd only at the decision - making stage, and when she declared her right to receive the promised covenant, her interests turned out to be out of the law. At this time, the acquisition of land in the Winnicki district of Timofius Girenko did not stop: in 2009, on the basis of the order of the Winnick State Administration, the land area of 37.8 hectares is leased for 49 years to Marvin. But what's strange is that the rent is set at 8,000, 200 dollars a year, that's 38 hectares of land. But the most cynical thing is that rent can only be reviewed 10 years later. The founder of a society with limited responsibility, Marvin, is BMU-3, where Timothy Herenko is also the director. So when you get more than 123 hectares of land for free, the division concert is unable to find 500 square meters of non-residential space to pass it on to the territorial community of the vineyard area, as promised earlier by the treaty. These lands, leased since 1994, have been used for the maintenance of gardening with the benefit of 835 citizens. My statement is considered to be a parliamentary request to the State Health Inspectorate and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Dignity Revolution is ongoing! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u130	The people’s deputy, Matthew, is invited to attend. Prepare the National MP for Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u131	Please give the word to my colleague, Vladimir Kudri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u132	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u133	Vladimir Kudrija, Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradstina, Alexandria Dear voters! I was forced to access this microphone by the fact that on Tuesday, when I asked our prime minister about the fate of Ukraine's coal industry, I heard in reply that it was an unsuspecting industry. And the bourgeois-coal industry, which flourished in Alexandria, Kirovgrad, doesn't know anything about it at all. I want to tell you that in Alexandria, coal deposits make up millions and millions of tons. And if we start producing and converting storm coal into electricity, it's going to be one of the keys to ensuring our country's energy security. And I want to tell you that there are investors who are willing to invest money in this enterprise, especially reliable investors who represent Communist China. In the past, they came with their proposals, but Mr. Boyko, who was then vice-premier of the TEC, said that 10 years' worth of this project was not right for him. How much do you need, Mr. Boyko? He says, well, at least 7.5. Our friends from China left, and a week later they brought him a 7.5 - year project. But they didn't fit in. Why? And the question is absolutely clear, because the Chinese won't get you out of there. Do you understand? Not the past government, not this. Understands that if the investor is a Communist China, they will not get any dividends out of it (that is, off). So I'm horrified to think about the future of my home country of little Alexandria, Kirovgradina, for example, as the Prime Minister said, of the unpredictability of development. industry. And one more thing. Our prime minister, who has already been called a "talker" in the people, always says he's mixed up like that dancer. And that there's no control, and so on and so forth. I'll read one quote. a great man, and then I will comment, "There is a widespread systematic, systematic sabotage of all control, supervision and accounting. Capitalist gentlemen. The truth, which all supporters of scientific socialism recognize in their words, but which the Bolsheviks have tried to forget immediately after their friends took the seats of ministers, deputy ministers and so forth.” Dear friends! That's what Human Genius Vladimir Illich Lens said 100 years ago. [[B in m in s a l in]] And Lenin’s teaching is eternal because it is faithful.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u134	Thank you. Finish up, please. People’s MP Melnik is invited to attend. To prepare for the people's deputy Melnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u135	Eugene Melnik, 19th Majority District, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, what we have just heard from the Communists is that lie that is constantly pouring out of their mouths. The greatest harm to the state and to our country was caused by the Communists. Most of them destroyed the Ukrainian people, and to this day they're corrupting here in the walls of the Supreme Council, and they're not allowing us to adopt normal laws for our country, for our country. Respectable Society! I want to share my impressions with you. On Sundays as a national deputy from the 19th Majority Electoral District, I was on my way to meet command and military from the 51st individual Mechanized Brigade. On May 26, along with the mothers and wives of the men of this mechanized brigade, I was appointed Deputy Secretary of Defense Mehed, and First Deputy General Staff. We gave them all these problems, which they complain about, which are addressed by the military. The situation is that our fighters from the 51st Mechanized Individual Brigade, after the Wallovah events, were transferred to the Shirokolani range to the Mikolai region. So it was my duty to visit and see for myself the circumstances of the military. Respectable Society! Along with the deputy head of the Volin district government, we visited our military personnel, handed them food -- 16 tons of food collected by Volin farmers. Not only did we communicate with the commanders, we communicated with the soldiers, and we listened to their problems firsthand. The situation is that when we passed bills that would allow us not to bill and not pay interest on loans, we accepted them here in the walls of the Supreme Council. At the same time, banks now account for interest, foam, and terrorize families, families of military personnel, and those with loans. In addition, it has to be said that the military personnel who are at the Shirokolanski military station, and I think that these and all other military personnel are not in normal living conditions to this day. The Supreme Council spends a lot of money, does not spend, but spends 7.5 billion, while military officials sleep on tents without mattresses, eats porridges, which are only mixed with mashed potatoes, but does not have meat. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the delay in allocating funds for normal living, for the normal arming of military personnel, is a special action by those divers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u136	Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u137	who are now sitting in the Ministry of Defense, and I think these are special measures that they want to undermine the discipline and moral spirit of our soldiers. In addition, I was contacted by military officials, former members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, by the police. In Lviv, there's a separate Lviv battalion, which is due to be deployed to the east of Ukraine in 10 days. At the same time, material security.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u138	Wait. That's enough, thank you. Before you know it, I'd like to invite the People's Deputy Melnick. Prepare the people's deputy Dubnevich. None. National MP Dubnevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u139	Your Honor, the chairman, the honourable deputies! Jaroslav Dubnevich, UDA faction, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. Today I was forced to turn to you. As an MP working in the district constantly, in a few months of war with Russia, I had the opportunity to take a look at the most pressing problems that the army and the special task force today have to face in anti-terrorist action. If the first few weeks of carefree public activists have been searching for batteries, repairing transportation, gathering, and transferring food, problems with the lack of remedies have come to the fore. The absence of armored vests, I say, after meeting with the parents of stringers and the commanders of parts, is the main problem today. I do not understand, there are the actions of the Ministry of Defence and Genstab, which, at the expense of donations and texts, have recently purchased everything but armor. Incomprehensiblely, I am addressing members of the government today, why did not the defence companies during the war set up a mass release of reliable and cheap vests? What, the big problem in Ukraine with steel or matter? I hope that the parliamentary investigation commission created yesterday will answer that question. To this day, the solution lies solely in the diplomatic plane. At the warehouses of the Polish Army, the Bundesver is equipped with tens of thousands of armored vests removed from their weapons. A few weeks of consultation, and we could get all this product here. Today, at least in Lviv, there is one "bronic", as the people say, bought at a commercial price in a European store, the fourth and higher class costs about 200 euros. I would like to point out that this is twice as cheap as the product that is to be purchased for the troops that make the Ukrainian enterprise. I am addressing the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Heads of State Border and State Fiscal Services, at last negotiate with colleagues from the EU so that this product will disappear from the list of banned persons. That today to transport this vest from abroad is a huge problem. People in Lviv to help the army drag them on foot crossings on each other. Once again, I express my gratitude to those who defend our nation today and express my willingness to help as much as I can. However, I believe that the state today is capable and must finally resolve this issue, as well as the issue of other remedies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u140	I'd like to invite the people's deputies, Mr. Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u141	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom" today requires allowing Ukrainians to provide individual heating. Autonomous heating is an irreversible process because it is based on the economic indicators and economic interest of a Ukrainian citizen. But unfortunately, the root of the problem is the banal lobbying of the interests of the heat utility. Today, greater heat is in the private hands of the oligarchs, and they are largely natural monopolies. The inhabitants found themselves in an absolutely hopeless situation. On the one hand, it's practically not the price of heat, it's not justified, it's not always quality, it's legislation that rules out any alternative. The issue of disconnection from central heating networks and hot water supply of residential buildings is regulated by the provision of services from central heating of cold and hot water, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of July 21st, 630 and by the order of disconnection of separate residential buildings from central heating networks, approved by the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom has today registered a parliamentary request and requires the Prime Minister to revoke these orders and allow the Ukrainians today to obtain individual heating permits. On the average, switching from centralized and individual heating allows the Ukrainian State to reduce the cost of production by 30 percent, at the very least, automatically reducing the consumption of natural gas to produce heat by 30 percent. Given that the Heatcommunergo consumes 12 billion cubic metres of Russian gas each year, individual heating would save 4 billion cubes. And for today's price of Russian gas, it's $1.6 billion. After all, today it's very, very simple, if the state can't provide a sufficient level of public services, consumers choose to provide themselves. So you don't have to ask the question either way, because you need both of these options, but on the basis of the prospects for the city and the thermal supply and fuel balance schemes. If a district has a small building, there should be an autonomous or individual heating system, and in the center of the city, the central heating system should be very dense. Thus, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union requires the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take all measures to facilitate the transition to individual heating of willing residents, Ukrainians, and the housing of apartment buildings. In particular, canceling or modifying these normative and legal acts, Ukrainian and urban communities themselves have to determine the best way to burn multi-housing buildings.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u142	People’s deputy Saldo is invited to attend. None. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Mochkov?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u143	Alexander Motchov, strike faction. Respectful citizens, the situation surrounding our country, are of great concern. All 23 years of independence of the State's institutions, which are life-forming, namely, the army, the militia, the foreign service were on the periphery of the Ukrainian authorities. Total underfunding, the moral humiliation of these institutions has led to the disastrous results that we are witnessing today. Numerous groups of terrorists are moving freely across the Ukrainian border. Three months ago, though, we were told that the border on the castle and no terrorist would reach our land. Local law enforcement authorities have found themselves openly unprepared to deal effectively with armed bandits. The anti-terrorism operation has openly stalled, and now we're risking getting the centres of permanent instability and military action in the east of our country. Already in some areas of the Donetsk region, we see signs of disaster. Four cities were cut off from water supply. There are problems with food and necessities. The economic sector sees the closure of small and medium-sized enterprises as a result of job cuts, failure to implement tax plans. Schools are closing, kindergartens are not working. The Ministry of Education is recommended to transfer the exams and the campaign to higher education institutions. It is essential to address the problems of providing forced displaced persons from the Crimea and eastern parts of Ukraine. People who left their homes were left alone with their problems. They need to be resolved by providing housing for these people, providing them with basic household needs, work, education. To solve all these problems, it is necessary to create a Ministry of Crimea and forced displaced persons from eastern Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers in the shortest possible time to approve the structure, authority and competence of the new Ministry, the objectives and tasks of the activity. Provide sufficient financial, material, technical and human resources. In the context of the informational opposition to our nation, the destruction was done by its power of impact. A vast number of unknown information agencies, diverse experts, Internet resources have been highlighting the situation exclusively at the point of view that was convenient to a particular state, thereby constantly unfolding the situation inside the state, completely distorting the essence of what was going on. I consider it essential to create a new information security body with as wide a mandate as possible in this area. Before the formation of such an organ, it would be appropriate to increase the relevant structural units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u144	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-06-m0.u146	Dear people's deputies, time for "Rose" is running out. Unfortunately, it's 14 o'clock. Be careful, be respectful. I would like to remind you that there will be a ceremony tomorrow for the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the oath of the Ukrainian people of the newly elected President of Ukraine. That's why I'm inviting all the people's deputies tomorrow for 10 o'clock to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you, good-bye.
