ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! It is a pleasure to welcome you to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their jobs. Now we're going to run the registration, and we're going to be able to start our work. I would like to ask the heads of factions, national deputies, to come into the hall and take up their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. Please. [[10:09:19]] 357 National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall We can continue our work. Dear colleagues, on December 16, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to Ukraine’s national election on October 26, 2014, Rev. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. I invite you to take an oath on the stand of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, Revegue Alexandre Vasilovich. Please, Alexander Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u2	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Welcome to the National Deputy's office. Honorable National Deputies, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have 30 minutes of factions and groups on Tuesday. And I'm asking you to sign up for factions and groups. Please, 30 minutes, please sign up, your honors. Please, Your Honor, the Petra Poroshenko Block, Barna Oleg Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, speak from MP factions and groups. Please, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u4	Heads of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u5	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow MPs, today we are approaching one of the most important functions of Parliament -- the adoption of the state budget. The position of the "Block of Peter Prashenko" is that we have to address this document responsibly, and not for the first time in recent years to go through the full procedure of both the Budget Act itself and all the laws that predate its adoption and form it. [[Applause]] We are very concerned about the approach to the budget that our colleagues, whom we have delegated to the government, demonstrate. Today, only six o’clock in the morning, the Tax Code was introduced, and it was later introduced, in effect, the Budget Law itself. At this point, there are 46 laws that are passed on to MPs that predate the adoption of the budget. So we have a task: to consider the Tax Code, the Budget Code, the amendments to 46 laws, and actually the Budget Act itself. Mr. Head, your fellow national MPs, we believe that today we must take these bills and study them. Now, at first glance, these documents show that very important agreements with the government that have been reached during the work of mixed parliamentary-government groups have not been reflected in these documents. For example, there's still an unprepared idea about entering a zero declaration, with all of the accruals in bank accounts and further 30 percent tax on everything that's above that stated. the sum. It's not a prepared idea that was taken out by the government, but today it's back in the documents we've been given. We can see that the village has been treated completely differently than we agreed. We also see that the government has never dared to stop the main dining room of the country, the Naftogazu grant, and does not want to go to the address of the poorest by keeping the system safe when the rich are using the benefits to burn their assets. We also see an unacceptable know-how where the government has no limitations on external borrowing. We also see an immoral decision to refuse to index minimum pensions and many other things. Mr. Head, in this situation, the faction of the "Block of Peter Prashenko" proposes to consider in an orderly manner the Law on the Council of National Security and Defence, the Law on Denunciation of Non-Block Status, a number of other laws that do not apply to the budgetary process. And during the lunch break, as well as until the end of the day, to study these documents, to listen to government officials and to seek compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u8	We need not just to take 49 black cats in a bag that we are offered to accept without consideration, but we need to adopt a budget that will change life in a country that will actually start reforms, not from the poor, but from the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Self-help, by Irina Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u11	Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u12	Your Honour, Mr. Head, the honourable lords of the deputies! We have an extraordinary situation with you today, when both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council are placed in a position of "must do." And we agree on what we have to do. But we need to do the best that society and the situation require of us right now. We support the position of the Peter Dusty Block in that we have to follow procedure. Today we are not voting for any law. Today we don't even think about voting for the budget. Because the budget depends on the Tax Code, the Budget Code, and the 42 laws that have entered. I can't imagine how we're going to look at them by tomorrow. But we'll try to do it. The previous analysis suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers did not hear our joint arrangements. One small nuance, colleagues, is the attitude towards local self-government and the dictatorship of treasury. A small nuance was removed from the previous project, two days to make payments from the protected budget articles and five days from the unprotected portions of the budget disappeared. At the same time, the responsibility of treasury to local budgets has disappeared and the malicious use of the local budget to fill the public budget holes. It can't be like that. So, ladies and gentlemen, we suggest that today's documents of the Tax Code, the Budget Code get into factions and committees, be considered this week, I don't know when we're going to decide that with you. And I propose to the Coalition Council as soon as possible to come together to define this issue. We'll figure it out when we look at them in the session room. And then you and I are going to figure out when we're going to look at the budget, is that going to be Saturday? Will it be Sunday? Whether it will be Monday – it doesn't matter in principle. So I invite you all to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u13	Thank you. Anton Yatzenko, Economic Development
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u14	Please pass the word to your colleague Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u15	Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In my 147th major district in Poltavska, electricity is shut down for almost a month until 8 hours a day. In Mir City, the situation has ruined the community, people protest, everyone understands the difficult economic situation, and they are willing to endure the difficulties of turning off the light. But energy needs to be understood, because people are concerned about the very simple questions: Why is disconnection always taking place on the same streets; why is there an 8 - hour switch on in some villages, while others do not switch it off at all; why is it that people still do not know how to turn off the lights? We've all heard that last week the Cabinet of Ministers promised to turn off the electricity evenly, not more than two hours in a row, but today the situation is still unmoved, the light continues to turn off without warning until eight hours a day. In Mirgorod, the city council stood up for the community and, by its decision, prohibited the disengagement of consumers for more than two hours. However, it is not known whether the electricity suppliers will implement the decision of the City Council if they do not even carry out the government’s orders. As a representative of the Economic Development Group, I say that we have already addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine with an appropriate parliamentary request, but there is no proper response so far. We are convinced that a civilized way is needed to solve this problem. People have the right to know in advance about any unpopular measures that affect their well-being. In this context, we demand three things from the government: first, regularly and in advance, inform the population about the electricity cut-off schedules; secondly, the government must ensure the unbreakable supply of electricity to social facilities: hospitals, schools, kindergartens, elderly homes, etc.; thirdly, we demand that the government solve the problem of coal deficit as quickly as possible, which has caused the current energy crisis to a large extent. For our part, we propose to consider Bill 1502, registered by the representative of our group, Yatzenk, on the establishment of a moratorium on water and gas cut-offs, electricity supply, water management services for the population of Ukraine. In addition, it is necessary to establish a Provisional Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of the circumstances, causes, and existence of the need for emergency power cuts on consumers. So I ask the MPs to support these initiatives, because today the power outage has become the ground for corruption and the pressure on business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u17	Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich, the "Will of the People" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u18	Ukrainian people, Mr. Head, honourable national deputies! The best policy in times of crisis is to be honest with your people, to tell them the truth, and to explain what difficult steps will be taken and what they will lead to. The Ukrainians are now concerned about very specific issues: inflation, social pay, rapid devaluation of bracelets and rising prices. Within six months, the bracelet fell by 100 percent. The official NBA exchange rate is 16 dollars, it's almost 19 dollars on the interbank, and in the black market, it's up to 23 dollars. And today, instead of doing an explanatory job, instead of gathering experts to carry out an open policy of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, there is silence or the possibility that nothing is happening in the country. This leads to a sharp rise in prices, a dwindling of the Ukrainian currency, especially the fact that people are poor in the eyes. We insist today that the Supreme Council should hold a meeting to hear the National Bank of Ukraine on what the course will be set for the following year and what the National Bank will do to keep the Ukrainian bracelet from falling sharply. We have heard on numerous occasions that the budget for the following year will be set at 17 bracelets. This week, we're already hearing that the class of bracelets is going to be 22 or 23 bracelets. So what's the actual course? What Should Be Done for the Ukrainian People? We would also like an answer to these questions. Today we make it clear that nothing is happening in the East. Our faction repeatedly traveled to the ATO zone, and we again sent 500 pairs of warm winter shoes to our fighters that week. I can tell you that there are units today that have not yet received winter shoes. We want to know the answer, 100 million dollars is spent every day on war, what are these costs going to cost? We'd like to ask and insist on holding a session to get the ATO management report on how the funds are spent, what did they go for, what rotation plan, what plan for mobilization and demobilization? We are interested in the treatment of today’s fighters in the ATO zone who are injured? How are prosthetic funds allocated? I can only say one thing: Today the army is fed by volunteers, today the army is dressed at the expense of families, parents, village councils, and city councils. These questions are essential to us. Our faction repeatedly asked for a minimum wage and pension index in the 2015 budget. We've prepared a letter of appeal to the head of the budget committee today asking to include this index. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Dunaev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u20	Please pass the word to Boyko Yuri Anatolevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u21	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u22	Your Honor, distinguished national MPs! We have come to realize that there will be a budget review today, although not one word of this was said yesterday at the Coordinating Council. But when we saw the people before the Supreme Council, we realized that the budget would be considered. Because people realized what was in store for them when they accepted the budget. In short, the draft budget envisions a reduction of 27 billion dollars in social pay to all levels of the population and an increase in the tax burden on the real economy and on people by 53 billion. And you can understand the situation where, let's say, prosecutors or judges are able to stand down their salaries and rewards, but when it comes to students, pensioners, and school meals, it's already a real problem for the state and for the whole society. And we have a simple proposition: you want to fill the budget and not touch these population categories -- stop smuggling gasoline for six months through the Odessa Customs, and you'll get the same costs, you won't have to cut these costs. We haven't seen any questions in this draft budget about de-absorbing, de-absorbing the economy. It is not possible to take seriously the item proposed by the government after the double tax burden on the operation with Cyprus is lifted because it is a complete nonsense. This in 2013, really, 25 percent of the country's exports went through Cypriot companies. But this year the situation has changed. Offshore exports now account for 49 percent, but the main thing is that the counterparty has changed, and Switzerland is now the main recipient of our exports in place of Cyprus. By the way, in absolute terms, in 9 months of this year, Switzerland has passed 136 billion dollars of exports, and Cyprus with this situation in its 12 billionth place. Therefore, honourable ones, we need to fill the budget with, indeed, normative documents that will give this opportunity. And finally. We believe that the entire budget, the entire draft budget, has been written under the direction of the International Monetary Fund, and the experience of the countries with the International Fund shows that in 30 years these programs have been working from 89 countries that have used and clearly followed the recommendations of the 32nd Country Monetary Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u23	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u24	In 32 countries, the situation has deteriorated significantly, and three countries have worsened. Brazil, Venezuela, and Mexico were in economic collapse at all. It is impossible not to take advantage of the current situation in the country and to consider it this way, separately from what is happening, and to make clear use of all the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund. So the proposal of our faction is to review the budget articles that relate to social benefits and correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u25	Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich, political party of the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u26	Timishenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u27	Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u28	Dear Ukrainians, dear Head, dear colleagues! This is the first time I've ever stood in this rostrum after what you've heard. And I would like to begin by thanking all of you who are present in this room, who have fought for the release of prisoners and me personally, who voted for my release, and who, in fact, has succeeded in their efforts to change Ukraine. I sincerely thank all who took such a stand. [[Applause]] Actually, we have a sign day today. Today we have to vote with you on a key law for today -- the law on peace, the law on reform strategies, the law on our place in Western civilization. This is a bill to repeal Ukraine's non-block statute. [[Applause]] I believe that this law is equal to the Declaration that we voted with you in the 91st year on Ukraine's sovereignty. It's to get out of the circle of war in which we were driven. And that's why I asked that this bill be put first so that the leaders of the state will be present here, so that we can declare this as a start, the first step towards Ukraine's accession to NATO, to integration into Western civilization. And I think today's vote will be so powerful that it will demonstrate to all NATO member states the desire of the Ukrainian people to be part of the democratic Western world. I believe we're going to show this high school today. But at the same time, today we have another important issue in our agenda: this is Ukraine's budget, along with the Tax Code, the Budget Code, and the laws that ensure the functioning of the state and actually stop the defolt. That's the key thing. The budget is not numbers, it's a state's development strategy for at least a year, but basically for three years. And that is why I strongly deny that the following year the executives will call it "the year of survival." It was not for that purpose that the Ukrainian people fought so hard that we fought for survival now. I think we, as nations, need to set much more ambitious, much stronger goals. The following year must be the year of reforms, the year of transformation, the year of rebirth, the year of creation and the year of beginning of Ukraine's integration into the European Union and NATO. And then we know our goal and we know where to go. I can't comment now not on the budget, not on the tax, not on any other laws, because they're introduced or at night.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u29	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u30	But at the same time, our position is very clear. We are obliged to give you economic development -- that is, tax cuts, we are obliged to give you economic development -- that is, people must have money to support the economy and the market. We want decentralization -- that means that money has to be in regional budgets, not central budgets. We want to develop the economy, which means we don't touch the tax system for agriculture. We are obliged to offer a completely different concept to the country. I don't want to say any words of criticism right now, but please don't make everyone out of our budget right now, just from the reform strategy for the next year, some sort of culinary, sub-cod, unknown field. Transparency, compliance with procedures, a clear discussion with civil society and a connection with civil society, and adoption in all budgetary procedures and laws. We offer Thursday at the first reading and Tuesday at the second reading. During this time, public hearings, full-time, fairly professional committee work, and to leave with real reforms, not with numbers that destroy our country and drain our people. I believe we can do this. The coalition was created to show a high class, not just survival. I believe we're going to get away with this. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u31	Radical Party, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u32	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. If we're talking about transparency, let's start with ourselves. Volodymyr Borisovich, if you haven't noticed the Supreme Council, there are thousands of people here today. I think these people have a right to hear what's going on in Parliament. And that's why I'm asking you to turn on the broadcast in front of the Supreme Council. Let the people hear what the national electorate is doing. That's the first question. The other one. Yesterday, we insisted that there be a head of the National Bank of Honduras in the Supreme Council Hall today. Unfortunately, she's not here today. And in the daytime, we don't see the question of the Gonnaare report. We think it's ignoring the problems of most Ukrainian citizens. To pretend that nothing is happening in the country, to pretend that the course is normal. To remain silent, not to answer questions about how to solve the problems of exchange rate formation, is at least irresponsible to millions of people who are dependent on the exchange rate, who are affected by the collapse of the exchange rate, and by money lenders, and all others, pensioners, older people, budgeters who are all tied up in the state budget and according to the course of the currency. So we insist that the head of the National Bank of Honduras come to the Supreme Council today and inform Ukrainian society and Ukrainian citizens of what the National Bank will do to stop the currency. The second important question is the budget issue. This is a fundamental question of how we will live. If we delay, as we're told, tightening all belts to get loans from the International Monetary Fund, we're definitely against that. We're 23 years of borrowing, and then we're going to get credit, and what's the benefit of that? Which of the Ukrainian citizens besides those who sat on these loans and stole them, who won? So we think that the budget should be a tool for development, a tool for reform, a tool for reducing unemployment, reducing unemployment in the country, creating jobs, raising the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. That's what the budget is for. Not to get loans from the International Monetary Fund. The important question is that of turning off the light in Ukraine. Today, millions of people sit in the dark — 8, 10 hours without light. Instead, we see in Kiev: advertising burns, streets burn, everything burns. Come on, if everyone is suffering, everyone has to suffer, not the villagers. Residents of the Rhinecentrums, Luben or Chernigovishte, without light, and in Kiev all the neon fillings, all the advertising is glowing. And finally, the last. To our power. The belts should not be extended to Ukrainian citizens, they should be extended to oligarchs. This is your assignment, for which we have elected you to the government, and for which the people have stood on the Maidan. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u33	Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u34	I give the floor to Bereza Yuri Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u35	Yuri Mikolaiovich Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u36	I'd like to address today, honourable national MPs, so we've started to work, and our work is now perceived very mixedly by society. An hour’s work — a break, an hour’s work — was completed. It's been a week. Break again. See, there is one important point. I'm talking to coalition partners. If there are questions about the budget, let us solve them. Then we have to give up all our rest, all our breaks, and work constantly on this budget to finally finish it. That's the first question. The second question. Remember what our country now finds itself in a state of military aggression by a nation, a neighbouring state. And so the adoption of the budget, especially the military part of the budget, is fair. We are expected to take real steps by those who are on the forerunner, and we are responsible for this. I'm stressing that if there's a question to the budget, if there's any question as to where, what, and how, I understand, committees have been set up to do that, and experts have been chosen here, work. But I would like to point out that for the first time in this budget, 86 billion dollars are being allocated for the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and for the defence program in general. And that's the main thing. I understand my mission and the task of all deputies is not to spend a penny of this money. The main thing is that all this money is going to be able to get our defense industry to work, finally, our factories. But it's up to us. And that's why I'm addressing all of my partners, and I'm addressing you with respect to my brothers, and I'm stressing that the adoption of the budget is necessary. As it wasn't, so we're working as hard as we can, not enough 24 hours a day, add another hour, but work. And so I ask all coalition partners to move on. And from criticism to design, that's the first thing. And the main point is, however, the adoption of the Law on the Non-Block Status of the State of Ukraine. Please support this project. It's moving forward. This is the future of Ukraine. I remind you, if our predecessors hadn't made us do this Parliament would not have died thousands of patriots in eastern Ukraine, we wouldn't have given up Crimea so infamously.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u37	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u38	And so once again, let me stress, we're working until the budget is adopted. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u39	Thank you, fellow national MPs. We're running out of speeches. I'll allow myself to sum up what was said. Because today we are starting a very difficult and difficult sessional Sunday with you. And that means that we have a huge responsibility to make decisions in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. These people who are on the street today, and those who are in their own or at work, all expect peace, peace, and foresight in our country. About how they will live tomorrow, how the country will develop in a year, how we will put an end to the military conflict and many other questions that we, as people chosen, have to answer. I would like to remind you, dear fellows, that the budget is needed today by the country, because it will provide funding for the army, it has been said, will allow for the adoption of local budgets that suffer from a lack of money. Clearly, we need to talk to you about the budget, look at the indicators of this budget, adjust it, taking into account the experience of the people's deputies, while working on the committees, to find constructive cooperation with the government. And no one said today that the budget should be reviewed and accepted. We agreed with you that today's budget will be presented to the people's deputies. Yes, we're actually working in very strict terms, but we understand that the year is coming to an end, and so that we can give you and the territorial communities the opportunity to discuss this budget, to understand how they will live, to discuss it in communities, so that people can understand which budget is finally adopted, we have to give it time. And that's why we have very limited terms. And one more thing. The budget of the country that we're going to accept with you is not the final document for the next year, because it will allow us to ensure the stability of spending for a certain period of time, and during this period of time we have to carry out reforms with you. We have to decentralize power, we have to ensure the economic recovery of Ukraine, and I don't think anyone will have any objections. And from how we're going to do this effectively, we're going to be able to understand both the financing of defense and the support of the poor, and the formation of quality social policy and many other issues, including support for culture and education, and infrastructure in Ukraine. No one has the right to violate the procedure. We have a limited time to make decisions that really oblige us to work in a very narrow period of time. But to do that, at least we have to present the laws -- present the budget today. And that's why today I invited the government to this rostrum and to this bed, led by the Prime Minister at 12.30 p.m., who will come to the Ukrainian Parliament and present the decisions that will then have to be taken to the field of the Ukrainian Parliament to discuss factions, groups, and, of course, committees. There is no need for us to accept the budget in the first reading – there is only its presentation to the Ukrainian Parliament today. And I'd like to take that into account. The next thing, fellow citizens, 42 bills introduced by the Ukrainian government this morning to Parliament are not all related to the adoption of the budget. And we can understand with you that some critical package we have to consider first because it's a derivative of the budget. And then we can continue to adopt other laws -- both deregulation and many other directions. So you and I need to determine the priority of what's at the heart of the budget. Of course, and on Friday, we're going to have the "Year of Government" and we need to invite everyone here who has something to do with both energy and national currency. Because the national currency exchange rate is not just a question of the National Bank -- it's a question of the state of the national economy. I think each one of mine will agree to that. And that's why in the complex we have to look at these questions with you. Of course, with great respect for the procedure, for the inclusiveness of the process and for the maximum discussion in groups and factions. But delaying, moving, not accepting -- that means entering the next year after the twelfth, and that's going to have extremely negative consequences, and you and I understand that. So there's only one thing from us today: work, work, and work again. We don't have to take any breaks, we don't have to do any weekends. I want to tell you that we worked last week and Sunday, including. And a lot of the people who were here in this room were involved in this. So I encourage everyone to finally start solving problems. There is this expression: If you do not solve a problem, you become a problem yourself. The Ukrainian Parliament should not be a problem of Ukrainian society; the Ukrainian Parliament should be a pride of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. Dear friends, the performance is over. We need to move with you to the agenda, and I would ask for maximum concentration, because the issue of the National Security and Defence Council, which we prepare for second reading, is extremely important, because we are all talking about national security and defence challenges, but we need to create reliable tools that will allow us to respond to these challenges in a decent way. And this is one of the laws that will allow us to form a high-quality system of national security and defence. And so before the second reading, you and I have a draft bill to prepare for us. It's a professional committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the procedure? Please proceed with the procedure. Please proceed with the procedure. the second reading, as defined in the Rules. Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich. It's all in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I think we have a lot of respect today for those people who came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are thousands of them. We join the proposals and insist that the broadcast of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be distributed, and people have the opportunity to listen to what is happening in this room. We ask and insist that we include external broadcasts in the area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. People's Commissioner. I want you to know that it's already on, this broadcast, and it's not here. We have to work in public and out loud. Besides, we also have a live broadcast on TV, the "Rady" channel. Thank you. Please, the rapporteur is the head of the committee of Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u42	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians, Mr. Head! For the second reading, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act was prepared. Let me remind you that in our first reading, we adopted this law and I will remind you of the reasons and relevance of these changes. The fact is that a valid version of the Ukrainian Security and Defence Council Act was adopted back in 1998 on the basis of the 1996 Constitution. We are now living under another Constitution and some of the rules of law need to be modernized, clarified and brought into line with existing legislation. Given the considerable resonance that has been in society, in the MP's environment, in the journalistic environment before this law, I still dare to re-emphasize the subject of this law, namely, article 107 of the Constitution, which states that the Council of National Security and Defence coordinates and controls the activities of executive organs in the field of national security and defence. The National Security and Defence Council is formed by the President of Ukraine. Decisions of the National Security Council and defences are implemented by Presidential decrees. These are the rules of a valid Constitution, the corresponding rules are in the Ukrainian National Security Council Act, which is now in operation, where in the core functions and competence of the National Security and Defence Council is to coordinate and monitor the activities of the executive authorities in the area of national security and defence. As for the preparation of the bill for second reading. It was introduced, about 40 years ago. 40 amendments to the people's deputies, 3 of them counted completely, 5 counted editorially, and the rest rejected. I would also like to draw your attention to the conclusion that there is both the Legal Authority and the Scientific Expert, who is questioning some of the innovations of the law. In this regard, we had to turn to the academic Institute of State and the right of the name of the Korean. You have the conclusion of the Institute of the Name of Korea in your material and have its legal conclusions. The committee unanimously, I would like to emphasize the word "one thing at a time," recommends to the Supreme Council that it adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a committee law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u43	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, you've been given a comparative table and we'll go over the modifications as provided for in the procedure. Amendment number one, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u44	Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u45	Is the National MP insisting? Captain.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u46	I don't insist. I don't insist on the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u47	Don't insist. Thank you. The next one is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u48	Amendment No. 2 is edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u49	3 Amendment, People’s Deputy of the Ephesians Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u50	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u51	Don't you insist? Don't insist. 4th National Deputy Ilyuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 5 Amendment, National Deputy Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich Is there an insistence? Don't insist. 6 Amendment, National Deputy Siroid. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u52	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u53	Please, just a minute. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u54	The amendment concerns paragraph 3 (a) of paragraph 2. Please insert in paragraph 3 of subparagraph "a" of paragraph 2 of section I of the project: after the words "makes a decision", add the words "within the limits of the powers of the President of Ukraine". Let me explain. The point is that the proposed bill allows for duplication of the powers that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is exercising today. We understand the importance that we have today in the Council of National Security and Defence, in today's conditions, but we should not forget that we have democratic, civilian authorities. So any duplication, any creation of double-governance in other areas besides security and defence, is not right and is dangerous. That's why I insist on restricting the powers of the Security and Defence Council exclusively, and of the Secretariat, solely with the powers of the President of Ukraine in the area of national security and defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u55	Thank you. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u56	I'd like to comment. It is a pity that Mrs. Siroid did not come to the committee, we have considered this amendment very carefully. And we just point out that the Presidential powers are clearly stated, and within the Constitution of Ukraine, RNBO is a constitutional body headed by the President. All decisions of the ORP are the procedure for putting them into effect. And we don't see any contradictions of duplication. There are clear legislative rules in many laws and the Constitution of Ukraine on the control and coordination of executive authorities in the security of competence. The committee does not support this amendment, and the Chamber is requested.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u57	Thank you. Amendment 6, National Deputy Siroid. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! You're not confusing anything? Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u58	To the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u59	You listen, please, and then you will react. Okay? The committee's position is not supported. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of the national deputy Siroid. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u60	Amendment number six. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u61	I ask you not to take the floor during the vote. [[10:54:47]] For the 120th. 18 – against 14 – held back, 241 – did not vote. Correction not accepted. The factions. Thank you. Declined. Amendment number seven, National Deputy Sotnik. Amendment number seven, National Deputy Sotnik. Are you insisting? You insist. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u62	I insist. Please. I insist on my amendment and please add the phrase "in the limits of authority. Within the limits of their powers." Explain why. See, according to the article proposed. The fourth of the Law on PNRs is defined as a series of issues from which PNRs can make recommendations. But not all of these issues can make decisions. So I think we need to limit these powers by just making decisions within the scope of the mandate of the PNDP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u63	Please, head of the committee. Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u64	I point out to the deputies that, in accordance with article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, public authorities and local authorities are obliged to act solely on the basis and within the limits of their authority. Well, it's a duplicating of the Constitution. Come on. The committee does not support this amendment and requests that the hall be identified. It's a constitutional norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u65	Thank you. 7th Amendment, People's Deputy Sotnik. We heard the MP's position. The committee's position is not supported. Please vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:31]] For-81 Edit is not supported. 8 Amendment, People's Deputy Wesselova. Are you insisting? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u66	Is he insisting? I just can't see. Please raise your hand to me. Excuse me, please, National Deputy Wesselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u67	In this regard, two deputies have already been asked. I mean, my opinion goes back to the opinion of Oxana Siroid, and of Helen Sotnik, it's already been said on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u68	It's the same amendment, I'm paying attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u69	But if she hasn't passed, is there any point in putting her again? Do you insist on putting the vote to the vote? Please 9 amendments to the vote. The national MP insists, the committee does not support it. [[10:57:38]] For-61 Not supported. National MP. 9 revisions counted. Any comments on the 9 amendments? National MP Shuhevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u70	Yuri Suhevich. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Today the Law is presented in a new edition on the National Security and Defence Council. You realize that these powers are now given in contravention of the Constitution, such powers of the LNB, that it is a completely different body. In fact, a coup d'état is taking place. [[Applause]] A new body is being created, the third source of power. We already had two sources of authority, and you know what that led to. Now we're going to have a third.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u71	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not in vain start my speech by quoting the Constitution. If the MPs disagree with the current legislation and the Constitution, well, that's the right of deputies. There's a process. Coordination and control, I want to mention again, I've quoted the Constitution, if anyone needs me, I'll quote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u73	Thank you. The next amendment is 10, the People’s Deputy of the Ephesians. The People’s Deputy of the Ephesians.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u74	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u75	I don't insist. Let's move on. People's Deputy Ilyuk. People's Deputy Ilyuk. Colleagues, I'd like to raise you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u76	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u77	Don't insist. 12, National Deputy Kozemakin. Don't insist. Yeah, go on. National Deputy Krulco, 14th Amendment. He insists. Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u78	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we look very closely at this new norm, which is to coordinate and monitor the activities of the executive authorities in the area of anti-corruption, public security and the fight against crime. Today, the reporter quoted the standards of the Constitution. The Constitution states that the PNB controls and coordinates the activities of national security and defence authorities. There are no other additional coordination tools for the NAPA in the Constitution. The same position and scientific expertise, the same position as that of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. So I would like us to listen to these important institutions and give additional powers that are not provided for by the Constitution. What's more, colleagues, I'll remind you, not one, but three decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding exceptions to constitutional norms. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that exceptions to constitutional rules can only be determined by themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u79	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u80	Dear friends! I would like to point out that, according to the latest sociological survey, the greatest threat to national security and defence the people of Ukraine see, I apologize, the people of Ukraine see in corruption and aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u82	Now, essentially. According to the Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act, National Security and the Challenges of Our Security, these include prevention, neutralization of real and potential threats to national interests in the area of law enforcement and the fight against corruption. Dear friends! According to current legislation, the anti-corruption strategy is produced by the President of Ukraine. Once again, it's not about substitution. This is about the constitutional standard of coordination and control. The committee discussed the matter and asked that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u83	Thank you. Are you insisting? Please put to the vote, 14 amendments. The committee didn't support it. [[11:02:37]] Z-87 Not accepted. Next 15th. The factions, please. Next 15 amendments. Are you insisting? 15th Amendment, Lyovczyn. Don't you insist? Next. 16th National Deputy Siroid. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u84	Deputies! Well, a lot has been said. I think we should not change the concept first and that corruption is a threat to national security and defence. Maybe so. But there are appropriate bodies for this purpose, and there are also powers vested in the executive bodies, the executive authorities. And yet there is the President's mandate and there are powers in the area of national security and defence, which are clearly defined by the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, if the amendment was not supported in order to exclude such a paragraph as a whole, I propose that if the President insists that he should participate in the opposition to corruption, let his authority, the authority of the National Security and Defence Council be limited by the formula: in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of section I of the draft word “coordinating, controlling the activities of organs” replace the words “proposing to organs”. Besides, I also ask, I urge and appeal to the committee's head not to devalue the work of those who carry out the legislative expertise. It's scientific expertise and the Chief Legal Authority. This has already been said twice. I don't think that's acceptable. They work and do their work in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u85	Please give the committee a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u86	Dear friends, once again, the rule of control and coordination of the RNA competence is a constitutional norm. In actual legislation, the Constitution is the order of change of the Constitution, and I don't see any contradictions here. As far as you're concerned about our findings, I'd like to say again. I don't make any comments. I quote the laws of law. I quote and I draw attention to them, without commenting. Once again, I want to say that I'm making proposals, that we can make proposals to anyone, but under the Constitution, I coordinate and control my work. We see no reason in the law to change the rules of the Constitution. The replacement of the Constitution has its own procedure, and everyone knows it. The committee does not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u87	I'm betting on the vote 16 amendment, National Deputy Siroid. The committee turned it down, didn't support it. The 16th vote. [[11:05:26]] For 109 Not accepted. Next, your honor, 17th Amendment, National Deputy Sotnik. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u88	I insist. It's okay, isn't it? I propose to delete this point in connection with, first. Look, the function of the PNDP is to coordinate, to control only issues that affect national security. Part one of article 1 of the National Security Act, it says that this could be a matter of any sphere, but only because of the threat to national interests. In this case, we don't have this exception. And that's why we actually have Parliament expanding the functions of PNB and expanding them more than mentioned in the first and second articles of Article 107 of the Constitution. In this way, there are functions for the control of executive power in any matter, even if they are not a threat to national security. This is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u90	I can't agree with this kind of treatment. What's more, we actually have the word "crisis phenomena" in our legislation. And just so that there's no insinuation, we're going to do 17, what is a crisis situation? The crisis is considered to be extreme conflict exacerbation, acute destabilisation, a situation in any area of activity, a region of the country. Dear friends, once again, I want to say that we have been looking at these amendments for three hours. And once again, ideologies is just bringing the RBA Act to actual legislation. I have this safety legislation, and all of these rules don't conflict with any of the points. According to the Constitution, the monitoring and coordination functions of executive authorities in both peace and military times have been placed on the PNB.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u91	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. I understand the committee, Sergey Volodymyrovich, does not support it. 17th Amendment, People's Deputy Sotnik. The committee didn't support it. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:07:56]] For-86 Not supported. 18 Amendment, People's Deputy Wesselova. Are you insisting? Are you insisting? Please, People's Deputy Wesselov, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u92	Well, I'm rejoining my colleagues. I think it's unconstitutional. I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u93	Committee, please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u94	Dear friends, I note that this rule applies to whom the President by his decree appoints a member of the RNB. In the Constitution, it is a direct rule: the President appoints an order to the MPO, except for those persons who are listed in the Constitution. But once again, I would like to point out that this 1998 Law was written under the 1996 Constitution. And then we had a presidential model of governance. In the Law on NRAs, as a matter of fact, the president can introduce central authorities and no one into the NRA. What is the point of this innovation? For example, according to the law, according to the Constitution, the President can introduce the head of Genstab, for example, to the members of the LNB, and under the law he can introduce the Minister of Culture or the Minister of Education. That's why we support the President's amendment to bring the law of the LNB into the Constitution of Ukraine. It's a direct constitutional rule that members of the LRA are appointed by the President's decree. The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u95	Decline. The committee's position is dismissed, the MP insists. 18 Amendment, People's Deputy Wesselova. Please put to the vote. I'll put it to a vote. [[11:09:43]] Z-62 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Nineteen, no insistence. 20th National Deputy Krulco. Do you insist, National Deputy? Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! In principle, this amendment, where I propose to rule out, is because there is simply duplication and so on those powers that are defined by the Constitution. The President of Ukraine has the right to include any person in the RNB. But I'd like to say something else that's more important. The real threat to national security and defence is the fact that we don't have a Secretary of the NPB for six months. So we welcome that finally appointed Secretary of the RNB and we welcome that a very strong figure is assigned to this very important position for the State. But at the same time, we should also see that the legislation of Ukraine that we adopt is in line with the Constitution of Ukraine. So if the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't listen to the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Chief Legal Authority, then maybe in this law let's write down these administrations. Why do we need them if we do not accept their correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u97	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the author of the amendment himself confirmed that the rule of the Constitution was simply laid down in the law. We reject this amendment and ask for support from the author who says that it is a constitutional norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u99	Thank you. The committee does not support this. Yeah, how much did I figure out? Please 20 amendments to the People's Deputy Krulko for a vote. [[11:11:41]] For-68 Not accepted. The next 21 amendments, do you insist, People's Deputy Ljovczyn? Don't insist. 22 The People’s Deputies do not insist on a corresponding amendment. Yes, taken into account. 24 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Wesselova. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Wesselov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u100	It's already been said that it's just a coup, I'm supporting my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u101	Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u102	Again, I would like to state that the precise laws in accordance with the Constitution and the decisions of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine introduced by the President's Decrees are binding on the executive authorities. The right thing is an editorial one that just clearly defines the constitutional standard. We're rejecting, we're asking you to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u103	Thank you. 24 Amendment of the People’s Deputy Wesselova. The committee's dismissed. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:13:06]] For-65 Not accepted. The next 25 national MP, Ilyuk, you insist, Your Honorable colleagues. We don't insist. The next 26 people's deputies, Krulko, are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! I am addressing all of you, and I want millions of Ukrainian citizens who are now listening to this meeting of the Supreme Council. Look at the functions we're assigning to the Secretary of the PNDP. We're assigning functions that, in the period between the PNB meetings, control the implementation of decisions, see in which areas: state security, law enforcement, military and technical cooperation, internal political, information, economic, scientific and technical, environmental, social, humanitarian. What is national security and defense? So I have a proposition: back up the amendment, let's not put rules into the legislation that don't fit the Constitution, because then it's going to work out for all the national MPs. Presidents and secretaries will change, and this law will continue to be used by those who will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u105	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u106	Dear friends, once again, I would like to point out that this paragraph concerns only those points adopted by the Council of National Security and Defence and implemented by the President's Order. What are we talking about? There's an RNB, there's a decision, there's a President's decree to put this decision into effect, and at the time these decisions are implemented, the RNB has control and coordination functions. It doesn't conflict with anything, it's monitoring and implementing these decisions of the MPO. It is not that the secretary of the PNB makes decisions or has the right to intervene. The Secretary of the RNB has the right to coordinate and control solely decisions taken by the RNB and implemented by the President's Decree. Absolutely. The committee proposes to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u107	Thank you. The 26th amendment was rejected by the committee. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:15:44]] For-78 Not accepted. 27th Amendment, National Deputy Siroid, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u108	Thank you. It would have been good if we had rejected, literally a few minutes earlier, the amendments that had been imposing the National Security Council and the Secretary of the National Security Council on constitutional powers. But we voted that these powers should be much wider, and now we have the authority to control the implementation of these decisions, which are already beyond the powers of the National Security and Defence Council. Dear fellow MPs, I am addressing you once again, we are now threatening the principle of the distribution of power in the state. I insist on my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u109	Once again, I want to emphasize and quote the rule of law. These functions are included in accordance with the Presidential decrees of the National Security and Defence Council. Well, here are the comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, the 27th Amendment, National Deputy Siroid, rejected by the Committee. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:17:07]] For-82 Not accepted. 28 Amendment, People's Deputy Sotnik. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u111	We just voted her, there's the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u112	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u113	I insist. I insist. I insist clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u114	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I think it's in principle right now. The amendment, it's actually, I insist on including this point in relation to the first, we need to understand that the PNB is a derivative organ from the President, so it only works within the limits of the powers provided for the President. What do we do in this case? We extend the powers of the President, which, according to article 106 of the Constitution, are exclusive and give them to a derivative body, the Secretary of the NPB, who is not even provided for in article 107 of the Constitution. That's what we're taking away from usurpation in our country. I point out that this is unconstitutional, contrary to article 106, 107 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u116	Dear friends! I want to point out once again that the PNB is a constitutional body, and I started my speech with the authority of this constitutional body. It says it's his function, his function. The Secretary of the PNB works exclusively within the framework of the Constitution, the National Security and Defence Council Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, 28 amendments (national deputy Stonik, rejected by the committee) are put to the vote. [[11:18:58]] For-93 Not accepted. Next: 29 amendments, People’s Deputy Ljovczyn. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next: 30 amendments, national deputy of the Ephesians.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u118	I beg your pardon, Siroid's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u119	No, no, I voted. 30th People's Deputies. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u120	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u121	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u122	31st, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u123	31st doesn't insist. 32rd doesn't insist. 33rd National Deputy Krulco. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, this amendment, which I have made to the corresponding article, is to bring the Law on PNP into line with the Defence Act, because it's about the fact that the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine is exactly organizing the work of the Supreme Commander's bet. Therefore, there is a proposal for an editorial: "Controls and coordinates the activities of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine during a special period of operation of the Supreme Commander's bet." In general, I would like to say first of all to those Ukrainians who are now listening to us and standing before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These changes to the Law on POPS have nothing to do with increasing national security and defence. This is about granting exclusive additional powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u126	Dear friends, I would like to make this amendment clear. The Defence Act states that the PNDP makes proposals for a fixed number, by structure, across all other headings of the Supreme Commander at the headquarters of the General Staff. But the law fell to the law, and who organized it. He organizes the work at the headquarters of the General Staff. The constant number and proposals for creation are made by the PNB, and the structure it organizes is not there. Here. It's a technical amendment at all. The PNDP cannot coordinate and control the activities of Genstab. Henstab's activity is clearly regulated under Ukrainian law. But to organize the work of the Supreme Commander in charge of which the President becomes a leader in the logic of current legislation should be the PNB. There's no intrigue here, it's an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please, 33 amendments, National Deputy Krulko, are not supported by the committee. Please put to the vote. [[11:21:48]] For-84 Not accepted. Next. 34 Amendment, People's Deputy Ljovczyn. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 35th National Deputy Krulco. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u128	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I would like to point out to all of you that this paragraph of the 10th Additional, which we are introducing to the Law on RNA, is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, since, in accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to appoint the Prime Minister and other members of the Cabinet, including the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine. Therefore, the wording of "law enforcement authorities" is incorrect, since the term "State protection of judicial and law enforcement officials" is also understood by the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, internal affairs, the Security Service, the military service, the law enforcement of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the State border authorities and so on. Therefore, I propose that this paragraph be removed from article 13 of the Law on PDO.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I want to make myself clear. What's the point of this amendment, I'm just going to quote, "take part in the consideration of proposals for candidates." I emphasize, he's taking part in the proposal. What kind of candidates? With regard to the appointment and release of the leadership of the military formations of law enforcement agencies. The point is, Mr. Krulko, I agree with you conceptually, but we have two-status law enforcement agencies -- the Ukrainian Security Service, which is appointed President, the National Guard, and so forth. These are also law enforcement agencies. So it's... it's... You know, I don't see any intrigue, she's in the debate. All of us can share in the consideration and offer. In this regard, we suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u130	Do you insist, 35? Please, 35 amendments, national deputy Krulko, rejected by the committee. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:24:18]] For-86 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then there's 36 revisions. 37th is an editorial. 38th counted editorially. 39th is an editorial. 37th National Deputy Krulco. It's written that reads editorially. Please, the author is national deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to the committee that although this one of my amendments has been edited in the draft law. But I would like to say, instead, because this is the last amendment that I'm going to take the word that we're actually setting a very serious mine of slow action, including in the Law on PNZ, standards that don't correspond to the Constitution. I believe that the PNB has sufficient authority to carry out its functions effectively in the area of national security and defence. And I would like to say that when we were standing with you on Maidan, we were in favour of having the legislative acts adopted in the parliament walls accountable to the Constitution of Ukraine. That is why I ask that this new Parliament act on this very principle. Then we will be supported by the people, and we will act really in line with the call for which we were elected to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u132	Thank you. I don't need a vote. Give your word to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u133	Dear friends, there are many people in this room who have a direct bearing on our security and defense. And each of them knows that unfortunately, to this day, we have not created a single integral body to coordinate all our efforts. That we have four decision-making centers. What we have between the Nascwards, parts of the Armed Forces, excuse me, communication through Kiev, and then, if you'll excuse me, through one place. I want to say it again. There's no intrigue, no usurpation of power. It is established within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, a coordinating body between intelligence, Nacguardia, the Armed Forces and other security and defence law enforcement agencies. Don't forget, today's peace of war is not forever. And we need to be ready for any challenges. To anyone, including energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u134	Thank you. 40 Amendment, People's Deputy, Sergey Volodymyrovich. 39th is an editorial. She was editorial. And please, National Deputy Sotnik, 39th Amendment, read out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will also use my last word. I'm pointing out to you that the Secretary of the RNB, if today is Mr. Turkinov, and we can say that he's a decent person, tomorrow it could be any other person who actually receives the authority of the Part Secretary of Defence, partly the Minister of Interior and partly the Anti-Corruption Bureau. It's a very wide range of powers, actually a fourth branch of power. I ask you to pay attention to this, not constitutionality, and that tomorrow it may be another person who will usurp power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u136	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u137	I would like to remind you of the history of political Ukraine. The President has the power to appoint members of the LNB, the President has the authority, after the decision of the LNB, to impose these decrees by his decrees, which by law and by the Constitution are valid for enforcement. Remember, we had precedents when we introduced the head of the Academy of Sciences when we introduced the governors into the LNP and all that. But, dear friends, when this law was written, no one in a terrible dream could think about the challenges that will come to us this year that await us next year. And I want to say it again. The laws in force and the constitution in force allow the President to form an RNB as he deems necessary. But it's this law that's defining and making a framework, and it's referring to security and defence. Thank you for your attention. The committee requests that this law be supported as a whole. This law is valid and we really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u138	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. We've been through all the repairs with you. I would like to give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich Paruba, please. And then we start to vote on the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! I'm really sorry to hear when, in the course of military aggression against Ukraine, we're so keenly discussing the possibility of giving more authority to the National Security and Defence Council. I am especially surprised to hear that a number of disputes in our lives are not about safety and defense. You know, aggression against Ukraine didn't start last year. For many years the Russian Federation and Putin waged an information war, an economic war, an energy war against Ukraine. And because the previous authorities convinced us that there was no threat to national security and defence, it led to an enemy coming to our land and to our territory. It was from what we thought that those fights were not security and defence issues. In today’s global information world, there are threats to the security and defense of our nation. And to my deep conviction, today, after military aggression, corruption is the greatest threat to national security and defence. And I think that society will fully agree with me on this issue. [[Applause]] If we don't define these moments in our strategy, we're going to get a huge mistake. And by the way, for constitutional experts, I want to say. What is decryption in Ukrainian legislation, what is national security and defense. I read the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Act, which states: "The national security of Ukraine means the protection of the vital interests of the individual and the citizen, the society and the state, which ensure the continuous development of society, timely detection, prevention and neutralization of real and potential threats to national interests in the areas of law enforcement, the fight against corruption." So we have the law deciphered, what is national security and defense. And the last thing I want to say. You know how I can responsibly state the former secretary of the RNB. Today, in times of war, without further authorization from the National Security and Defence Council, we endanger our nation’s security and defense. It will be very important to carry out the task of organizing the defense of our nation. We face great challenges: the return of Donetsk, Lugansk, and Crimea. And I'm sure today, by our vote, we will give a decent and correct answer to these challenges. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u140	Heroic glory! Thank you, distinguished national MPs. By procedure. With a motive, please. Please, the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u141	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Given that the situation is very difficult right now, and all people, even under the Supreme Council, thousands of people, expect us to start working more constructively, to pass laws on their lives. Instead, we take and assign the authority to another additional organ and to one person. I ask you very much, there have been very tragic events on the Maidan very recently. When we talk about external aggression, instead it's the bet of the commander, it's the president of the country, who also has these functions in his power. What's the point now? Self-help lawyers worked hard from Fatherland. No correction was accepted. It seems as though we are actually assigning certain powers to one person or to one body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize to you that on the basis of the vote, you can say why you vote in favour or why you vote against it. This is the first position. And second position. Your faction was involved in voting amendments and positioning. That's why you don't have to count it. Please, Oleg Lazko, then one Opposition Block. Please, on the basis of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, dear colleagues, I think that for all of us there is obviously no common position on this bill in factions that are part of the coalition. And the reason we don't have this common position is one. Some colleagues demand to act in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, others are guided by a revolutionary moment in order to convince them of something else. I believe that we should be examples of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. We only have to vote for laws that do not conflict with the Constitution. That's why I have an offer. Maybe we should take it down now, not vote in favour of this bill. Discuss the Council of Coalitions, determine on this point so that the vote can be reconciled, perhaps by amendment, supported. If not, let him decide the hall. We only vote for those bills that are in charge of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Opposition Block, Scorch. National MP Skork, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u145	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! It's the opposition block faction. Dear colleagues, I suggest you listen to your colleagues from the Radical Party, to your colleagues from Fatherland, to your colleagues in Self-Help about the fact that this bill is completely unconstitutional. He contradicts article 107 of the Constitution. And we propose not to replace the revolutionary relevance of the Constitution of Ukraine, the functioning Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u146	Colleagues, come on. Look, I'm showing a lot of respect for each and every one of you right now. I ask you to show the same respect to your colleagues and to the procedure and to what is happening in the hall. Please, the line is Oleg Lazko, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u147	Colleagues! Please, Oleg Lazko, line, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u148	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm asking for the future of the so-called National Deputies, and in fact, wolves in sheep's clothing from the so-called Opposition Block, you please don't mention in the pure Radical Party. 'Cause when you say it. [[B in m in s a l in]] For if you say so, to listen to your colleagues, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u149	Please, Self-Help. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u150	Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help" faction. I want to remind Mr. Paris and everyone here that the basis for national security is the position of the Constitution of Ukraine. And in no way is the National Security Council restricted to the powers vested in the President of Ukraine. Please take and use national security and security. Why do you, in violation of the Constitution, accept this law -- incomprehensible. It's not clear, I'm telling you again. Please remain calm and adhere to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u151	Thank you. I can see from the non-fractional, please, Yuri Lewchenko. Then Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Well, you know, maybe good things aren't done in silence, like breaking the Rules. I would like to officially state that I have submitted official letters to the Head of the Supreme Council, and to the head of the relevant committee, Mr. Pashinsky, that somehow our amendments to this bill, which were submitted in due time, were properly drafted, were simply ignored by the committee, and even today they were not put to the vote. This is a gross violation of the Rules. And you know, I think that's why they were ignored, and because these amendments just pointed out that a lot of the rules of this bill are in violation of other laws in force in Ukraine, particularly the Ukrainian Constitution. Why create an alternative body to existing organs, and why do we have a two - power in Ukraine? If you're talking about what it takes for the army, you're going to need one single center to run, not create a bunch of these centers with the same powers. Who's going to be responsible after all? Collective.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u153	Thank you. Regulation. Please, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u154	Dear friends! I want to give you something like that. We are now passing an important law, if the President of Ukraine disagrees with him, he will veto his veto and no 300 votes will be cast for him. But we don't have to wait for the first time since the beginning of 1999 to be normal, after Paris, the head of the National Security Council had been there before for broken-down pilots. [[Applause]] Do you understand? We're starting a normal S.N.B.O., and you're in the way. And I'm very sorry that the guys from the Radical Party who were on the fronts are joining up with the guys from the opposition block. Let's get SNB to work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask all the national deputies to come to the hall right now, because we're about to vote. I see a faction of Peter Dustenk's Block, Yuri Lucenko, and we're going to summarize the last performance. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to remind you that the Council of National Security and Defence is an organ defined in the Ukrainian Constitution. Unlike many other advisory bodies created near and to assist the President of Ukraine, it is a constitutional body. I would like to remind you that this bill is supported by the President of Ukraine, and he, as the Supreme Commander, believes that he needs to reinforce the role of the Security Council as the High Commander's stakes, which our coalition colleagues have demanded for so long. Think of how long our colleagues in Majdan have demanded the creation of the Supreme Commander's bet. It is this bill that transforms the Security Council into a powerful body that will formally act as the Supreme Commander's bet. There is none in the conclusion of the expert board.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u157	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u158	There is no position in the conclusion of the expert board on the violation of this law of the existing Constitution. Therefore, I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this law and to establish a viable stake for the High Commander in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u159	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. The last word of Teteruk, please. People's deputy Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u160	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We have listened respectfully to all the remarks that have been made during the consideration of the self-help deputies and other deputies. But we saw that there was no professional view at the time of consideration. There were emotions, there were calls an' people look at us!'and there was no professional approach in this consideration. This is the first time. Secondly, if someone is afraid that we will give more authority to a person, let us approach this person in principle, because we have many discussions ahead of us about judges, prosecutors who really need our careful care, not restricting authority, because some bad may come or some bad will come. A man of evil intent. That's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have given everyone the floor with great respect. We've gone through the whole procedure, we've made our proposals, but I want to confirm one thing: we need to make decisions that relate to our national security and defense, and that's obvious. We don't take things first, and then we criticize them. Today, we need to unite around these issues and vote, and support the order of the fight against corruption, the victory on the front. We have a lot of questions that need to be solved, but no one can do that without authority. [[Applause]] So, dear fellows, I ask you all to enter the hall. I am voting on the second reading and in general the bill for registration number 1343, introduced by the President of Ukraine, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act on improving coordination and control in the area of national security and defence. Please put to the vote, please support in the second reading and in general. Vote, Your Honor. Please vote. [[11:43:24]] For 223 [[(Applause) (Noise in the hall)]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you once again to join all the national deputies in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, me. 223. Let's see the factions. Let's talk about it. What suggestions from the committee? Please, head of the committee. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u162	I'd like my emotions to drop a little bit. You know, we just broke the Safety Act. Such joy is so impressive that we won the Putin. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, this law must be adopted. I'm asking the faction leaders to mobilize, because we have a lot of people in the buffet right now who go in the towers, who are interviewing. This law applies to national security and we will not allow it to be destroyed. Please put it to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Timchuk. Wait a minute. Then Oleg Lazko. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u164	Dmitri Timchuk, People's Front. Since April we have seen the main problems of the so - called Anti-Terrorism Operation. The main problem is the lack of coordination between the forces, the intelligence community, the intelligence services. It is now possible to correct this situation a few months after the start of this operation. I don't understand why our coalition partners are doing everything they can to prevent such a coordinating body from being created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, please. Colleagues, please sit down or you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u166	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You don't know how to act - by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u167	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u168	There is no positive vote. I propose to send this bill, and before that, I've made an offer to convene a coalition council, to discuss, to find common ground. Unfortunately, you didn't hear. In accordance with the Rules, therefore, one way is to send the bill for re-reading, where to consider further proposals by the national deputies and to vote. I don't think there are any MPs in the People's Front or in the Dusty Block who can blame the Radical Party faction or Self-Help or Fatherland for the fact that we care less about your country's security. But please follow the Constitution, respect each other, and demonstrate the unity of the coalition. Don't push it!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u169	Please, National Deputy Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u170	Dear Mr. Head! It's a very important bill, and under this bill you have to reject any emotion and reject any membership of any political party or faction or group. Today, the country is in a state where all such draft laws are to be united. Therefore, I ask you to return to the vote in accordance with the Rules, because we have several of our deputies who have failed to enter the Hall, to vote in favour of the return to this bill, and then to put this bill to the vote again in a second reading and in general. This does not conflict with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. Then the Fatherland, Krulko. Then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head! I want Ukraine to see today that we do not vote on unconstitutional laws. I want Ukraine to see what we want in our country today. I support the position of the Radical Party and Fatherland: return to the committee, make quality law in two days and vote on Thursday. Please don't do any mimicry and circuses on the Supreme Council of the country!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u173	Thank you, thank you, dear colleagues, thank you. Let's do that. Then we have Heratschenko, Irina Heratschenko. A. Ivan Krulko. I'm sorry, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u174	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear voters! Deputy Krulko, Fatherland faction. Now millions of Ukrainians are waiting for us in this room to adopt the necessary reforms for the Ukrainian State. The voters are horrifyingly awaiting the budget that will be introduced to Parliament. And we're doing an hour and a half by sharing authority. Is that what the electorate has chosen us to do today? Therefore, honourable national MPs, are the requirements of the Rules, I specifically brought him here, on the procedure for reviewing the bill in the second reading. As a result of the review of the bill, the Supreme Council takes its decision. We have already voted for acceptance in the second reading, and in general, we have not passed. Then the next rule is the return of the bill to the Main Committee for further processing and the next submission for re-reading, and we will support it. And we want the law to be perfect, we want the national security and defence of Ukraine to be properly implemented, but in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Let's follow the Constitution. Let us act by law. And we will be supported by people. And our coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u175	Colleagues, just a minute. Thank you. Please sit down. Irina Heratschenko, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u176	Dear colleagues! You know, the least.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u177	Calm down! Stop prying! We need to approach what we are considering calmly. Everyone thinks they're a hero when they see a fight on the side. I'd like to ask you again, colleagues, carefully, with respect to each other. If there is. Now the MPs are coming, the two deputies come up and say, "I didn't vote, I wanted to vote." What should I do now, tell him: "Get out of here!"? [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, colleagues! Read the Rules. I'll give you the book. Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, respectable colleagues, the least I'd like to believe is that the places where the former Communist party was sitting, some special, something was done. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Don't be so happy with the Opposition Block. Still, do not be drawn to them in this joy by someone who works against the national interests of Ukraine. I am now addressing the session room with the request to support those combatants who, unlike some, know every day what is going on on on the front as necessary today, please don't interrupt the coordination of our efforts. I agree with Self-Help that the Security and Defence Council has recently been an organ that has been "stuck by beaten-up pilots." So let's do everything right now to make it really a coordinating body, where they won't, you know, assign someone not to fall, but decent people who can, as Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, coordinate all the necessary efforts to help the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u180	Authorization. And thank you to all the combatants who are protecting Ukraine today and in the session room. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, look, four deputies came up, saying they didn't vote. I will quote the Rules, which states (fourth part of the 48th): "or, in the event of obstacles that could flow to the results of the vote during the vote, a re-voting without discussion by the decision of the Supreme Council." So I'm going to set it up for the return. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! I beg of you, dear fellows, to concentrate, quietly, calmly. If there are no votes, there will be no votes. One minute, I'll put it to the vote. Back to this bill. If he's voted, we'll vote on him. I am betting on the vote to return to the bill (registration number 1343). Please determine how to vote. Vote, Your Honor, on your return. On your return, please vote. Please vote. [[11:52:25]] For 223 Dear colleagues, 223, have not returned. That means we're going to send him back to read again. And let's put a dot on that. I'm voting a motion to send him to the committee for a second read. Please put to the vote, the second read was the proposal for a second read. [[Noise Nodes]] For a second reading again, dear colleagues. Another reading. [[11:53:14]] For 302 [[Applause]] Decision taken. I want to serve. On the grounds before the vote. I'll have some breakfast. I'm tasking the committee, asking that we properly organize the work so that we can consider this bill and accept it on second reading and in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Next. Dear colleagues, we have the Ukrainian Law (registration number 1014, 1014-3, 1014), the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the refusal of Ukraine to implement non-blocking policies, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. We have a reporter. Dear colleagues, we have a reporter – Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Pavel Anatoliyovich Klimkin. And I would like to propose that he will report on this bill, as well as the reporter, Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Deputy. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I would suggest that you consider it as a reduced procedure. This will allow us to express our position. The question is clear to all. We will support him, and I think that unanimously, at least yesterday at the Conciliation Council, that position was unanimous. That's why I'm voting on the short-term procedure. I'm asking you to support her, dear colleagues. The procedure is short-circuited. Vote please, Your Honor. Set up a simplified discussion procedure. Vote please, Your Honor. A brief discussion, please vote. [[11:55:11]] For 245 Decision taken. Short talk, we need 150 votes to do that. And I would like to invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council, please, Paul Anatolyovich Klimkin, Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I have recently had the honour to present to you the draft Law on the Ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. It was a special moment. Today it is without exaggerating the second special moment when I have the honour to present the Ukrainian President's Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to refuse Ukraine's policy of non-blocking. First, under the conditions of aggression against Ukraine, this law opens up new mechanisms and new forms of implementation of our predictable and effective foreign policy. Secondly, the logic and philosophy of this law, its formulation, corresponds to seeing our friends and partners in the Alliance and in the European Union. Because it will certainly lead us to integration into European and Euro-Atlantic space through the implementation of all the reforms that we need and the achievement of all the criteria, all the necessary criteria for membership in the Alliance. This law will allow us to make use of all of our constitutional rights, including article 18 of the Constitution, of the possibility of pursuing an external political course in accordance with our national interests, in accordance with all the necessary possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u183	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u184	to protect our independence, sovereignty and the integrity of our borders. Please support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u185	Thank you, thank you, Pavel Anatolyovich. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u186	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, there are moments in each country's life when decisions are made. The decision we're faced with is just that -- the decision to make. Whether Ukraine will leave the gray security zone and ensure its national security. This is a strategic decision. The Yanukovic regime committed many crimes against the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people. And the cancellation of membership, the NATO membership course, and the declaration of so-called non-blocking is a crime of a strategic scale. When the Janukovitch regime pushed changes into our legislation in July 2010 and included an incomprehensible non-blocking, we were told that this would also remove the issue of "anxiety" (in paws) from the Russian Federation. In my opinion, Russia's further actions show that there is no such concession of Ukrainian power to satisfy imperial Russia, for which the very existence of an independent Ukraine is a threat. The continuation of the legislatively established non-lockality is a disregard for the ideals of Euromaidan and the deception of Ukrainian patriots and our Western partners, who can't go twice where we're going -- NATO, the Tashkent Treaty or stay in a gray security zone. Bill 1014 itself answers the strategic question of whether we will ensure our national security through the restoration of NATO membership. A course, by the way, that was determined in the legislation of Kuchma and Yanukovich in 2003. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u187	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u188	I ask you, Your Honor, to support Bill 1014, which was introduced, and, by the way, in March of this year immediately after the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation. Sadly, though, the lack of political will has not led to consideration. In my opinion, Bill 1014-3 does not answer the main question: and where are we headed when we cancel the lockdown? So I propose to vote in favour of Law 1014, which goes much further on strategic issues than Bill 1014-3. By the way, our bill 1014 is fully in line with paragraph 1.1 of the Coalition Agreement, which is made by the five factions of today’s parliament. We draw conclusions from our mistakes and do not repeat our mistakes. We need to resume our course for NATO membership. This requires the support of Bill 1014. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u189	Thank you. Please sign up, two for, two against the procedure. Please, National Deputy Amelchenko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u190	Please give the floor to the leader, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u191	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u192	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable national MPs, Volodymyr Borisovich, the bill that we are currently considering is undoubtedly a strategic bill for our country. Unfortunately, in 23 years of independence, I think we have made two strategic mistakes. One is the definition of Ukraine's non-block status, and the other is the refusal of nuclear weapons. I am convinced that if Ukraine, as a state, in 1991, as an example of other countries of the socialist camp, were to take a course towards the European Union, to share military defence within NATO, if Ukraine had left at least tactical nuclear weapons, if it had not been possible to maintain strategic nuclear weapons, we would not have Russian aggression today, we would not have lost Ukrainian territory today, we would not have thousands and thousands of civilian and military civilians killed today. Today is the time to correct strategic mistakes. One of them is Ukraine's rejection of non-block status. We can't afford luxury to be in an out-of-block status. We have no funds, no time, and an immediate restoration of the Ukrainian army to protect our homeland. That is why we need to use the collective security system that NATO is today. The place of Ukraine in Europe. Ukraine's NATO site. For the sake of the security of the country, for the future of the country, for the protection of the Ukrainian people and for the Ukrainian generations of the coming citizens, we must be where the power is, we must be where the truth is, we must be where respect for human rights, respect for everyone and respect for the Ukrainian state is: membership in the European Union, membership in NATO. That's where Ukraine is! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u193	Please, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u194	Ukrainian folk saying, "Whom you're gonna treat, who you're gonna hook up with." Whom they've dealt with, who they've come across. And it's the Non-locking Act that will finally allow us to deal with those who are the identities of collective security, intelligence, respect for human rights and development in general. So, without appeal, we have nothing to discuss. But today I propose that at this very moment, right now, around this law, we must unite around the President of Ukraine as the guarantor of the Constitution and of the person who represents us outside this state and vote on the law passed by the President of Ukraine, no matter what. So the Self-Help faction calls for a coalition and all those who understand that we have to deal with those who are the personification of intelligence and the spirit that we are voting for the law that the President of Ukraine passed to the Hall. This is 1014-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u195	Thank you. Please, Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u196	Please pass the word to Vilukulu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u198	Dear people of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Of course, the security and defence issues of our country are of paramount importance. But the proposal now being made, and which is now supported by the parties of the provincial coalition, is intended solely to divert people's attention from the disastrous decline in living standards in the country, from food travel, medicines at frozen wages and pensions, from the non-working economy, from the power cuts. And this decision will only increase tensions in society and give us nothing good. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, even in the Declaration on Ukraine's sovereignty, what has become the foundation of our Statehood, Ukraine's off-block status has been clearly defined. Ukraine can only be made strong by Ukrainians, for us the most effective is the non-block safety model – such as Sweden, 200 years off-block. Switzerland, which has experienced two world wars without participating in them, Ireland, Finland, Austria and many other countries. Only Ukrainians will make Ukraine strong. But I also wished to point out that, in any case, there is no sense of urgency except for political decision. We've already been promised visa-free entry. European standards, the European standard of living are all declarations. The same will be true of NATO, in which no one is waiting for us anywhere. A weak Ukraine needs no one, a strong Ukraine needs everyone. The opposition bloc will support a strong, professional, highly-paid army to ensure that there are no waves of calls from unprepared people from the machine. Vote in favour of NATO, vote in favour of repealing the non-block status.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u199	One word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u200	We certainly won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u201	All of it! Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give the floor to the committee that has been discussing this matter. And it's defined by the Pashinski Committee. Are you going to report? Please. Dear colleagues, please invite the deputies to the hall, we are about to vote on the Extra Block Status Act, which is extremely important. I would ask that everyone be in place, because right now a lot of MPs are coming up and saying they couldn't vote in favour of the previous law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u202	John Vinnick, Secretary of the Security and Defence Committee. I think that many of us in this room now agree that Ukraine must take the first steps to ensure that the sovereignty of our state is preserved. One of the first steps is to abolish Ukraine's non-block status. Several versions of these bills were presented by the national deputies. I want to point out that the committee considered all the options and studied them from a legal point of view, and also from the perspective of the fullness of seeing these bills. I would like to draw attention to a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, with registration number 1014-3. It contains a very important thesis that will greatly accelerate the possibility of Ukrainian integration into European political and legal space, as well as the acquisition of membership in Euro-Atlantic security space. This applies to part two, paragraph 5, of article 8, as follows: "Increasing cooperation with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization with a view to achieving the criteria, I stress, criteria. Until we reform our army until we reform our economy, no one will ask us to join the European Union or the North Atlantic Treaty. Therefore, as a representative of the committee, I propose to the people's deputies to support the bill submitted by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko (1014-3), and to accept it both as a basis and as a whole. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u203	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted the procedure. Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, I ask everyone to take up their work months. I'm asking everyone to take up their work months. Please, on the basis of the vote of the riot, the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u204	Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will vote in favour. I would like to remind you that this is not a matter of subjective choice or fashion, it is a matter of national security, sovereignty, and Europe’s Euro-Atlantic future. I would like to remind you that our faction, the first in the spring of this year to register a bill, fully in line with the traditions of democratic government, we have offered to refer this issue to a referendum. We also registered this time with the work of the Supreme Council. We believe that for the sake of integration, a demonstration of coalition power and a clear signal not only to our partners but also to the citizens of Ukraine. We have to support this project today. I call on all colleagues, not only coalition members, but non-fractional members, to support the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for such unity in the hall. A profile committee and factions have been proposed. I ask you to prepare, my fellow Members, I will now lay the groundwork and, in general, the law of Ukraine (1014-3), submitted by the President of Ukraine, on the basis and in general. Please support the people’s deputies as a whole. Please vote, Your Honor, on the proposal of Committee 1014-3, submitted by the President of Ukraine. Please vote, please support, Your Honor, the unblocked status of our country of Ukraine. Please vote. On the basis and in general on the basis of the vote. Please vote. An extraordinary vote. Please vote, colleagues, and please support. Bravo! Bravo! [[12:13:20]] For 303 303 – decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you all, distinguished national deputies, for voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u206	Heroic glory! I see people's deputies who raised their hand, who didn't vote, especially Yegor Sobolev. You put your position in writing, and it's going to be counted when you define the number of votes in favour. Decision taken. The law is passed. Thank you. On the basis and in general. Dear colleagues, are we moving on? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can vote for reasons, not after. Dear colleagues, draft decrees. We agreed that under the Rules I should announce a recess. I want to talk to you about how to do better. At 12:30, we're going to have a government with a budget presentation. I would suggest that you now take two decisions on the basis and in general on the specifics of the review procedure that are given to you. This is going to be about us introducing a special procedure. We can discuss and accept it by means of a reduced procedure, without discussion. It's only about the procedure. We can then change, if we need to, we can extend the meeting and so on. But in order to define this procedure, I would still suggest that we take the whole of these two decisions as a basis. You know that decisions are not taken in the first reading. And then we announce a break, we invite the government, we start talking about it, and so on. If you don't mind, I'll do it this way. Do you mind? Do you mind? Come on, Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u207	Mr. Head, I'd like to take my time with this decision. We won't accept it in 15 minutes, because there are a number of comments in all our colleagues. After we listen to the government, we gather by coalition and set a normal timetable for addressing these very important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u208	Okay. All right, Mr. Liege. Let's do it this way. I will then, as I have to do under the Rules, announce now for 30 minutes, as defined by the Rules, I will break and in 30 minutes the government will be and we will present. We'll listen to the budget. I'd like to ask the Coalition factions to come to my office. Thank you. 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. I'd like to invite all the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. When everyone comes in, I'm going to apologize for the delay, because factions and coalitions were holding a council on the development of a further plan of action to review the bill. Please invite all national deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. I'd like to give the floor to the People's Deputy Krulko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u210	Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Mr. Igor and I have a very important mission. The Bethlehem Fire of Peace was brought to the Supreme Council Hall. This is the fire that is traditionally brought to Ukraine before Christmas to protect our nation, to enable the legislative body to make the decisions that are really necessary today for both Ukraine and our society. May this fire bless our session hall for making only decisions that will save Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u211	And I'm handing over this Bethlehem Peace Fire to the Chief of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u212	May peace and harmony prevail forever in Ukraine. Thank you, thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the session room. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to invite members of the People's House. We have an early morning meeting at 2 p.m. under the Rules. I'd like to make a suggestion that we vote with you to continue the morning session until the agenda is exhausted. the plenary meeting. I'm asking everyone to take their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 331 national deputies registered, but I don't see there being 331 deputies. Faction leaders. Did you have a faction? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it to a vote. I think we're gonna have enough votes to keep working until we're out of order. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is fully composed of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, headed by Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to put a motion for headship on the extension of our work, the morning session to address all issues of the agenda. Until the end of the discussion. Please decide how to vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. [[13:53:07]] For 234 Thank you, colleagues. 234 -- decision taken. I'd like to ask the faction leaders once again to invite members of the People's House. Dear colleagues, we have a number of important bills that will be presented by the government today. And I'd like to propose next time to build our work. To invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk to the floor. Then give the floor, 10 minutes, to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Jaresko Natalija Ivanovni. Then invite the Minister of Social Policy, Pavel Rosenk, to 5 minutes; the Deputy Finance Minister, Mr. Vladimir Makarovich, to 5 minutes and Minister of Economic Development and Trade, Mr. Abromavichus. And then we'll have the opportunity to ask questions and answers from factions as well as from the national MPs. 25 minutes from the factions. And we'll take 35 minutes for the people's deputies. We want to build work in this way so that we can make decisions today on how to deal with these issues. These regulations will include a list of laws that we will include in the order of the day session. Then tomorrow we will dedicate our work to the committees preparing for the first reading. Thursday, if we were to look at it in the first reading. Then we could continue to work on committees to complete work on important bills and budgets by the end of the week. Well, if life makes any adjustments, we'll also correct our mode of work. But in general, we've just discussed this with factions of the coalition, and there is an understanding of this approach. I'd like to invite you, your honor, to your word, to take your seats. I invite you to the words of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, Arsenia Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u213	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! A coalition government formed by the European Ukraine Parliamentary Coalition over the last 20 days has been working on the first basic package of Ukrainian reforms. Those reforms that are needed for the country and those that cannot be postponed. We have today introduced 44 acts of legislation to the Ukrainian Parliament. And so, first of all, it's to put all the laws in order of the day in order to work actively on them. The other one. How is this reform package divided? This is a new budget code, namely, giving additional authority to local authorities and allocating additional funds to the local authorities. The other one. A new Tax Code, a change in the tax system, a cancellation of taxes, an extension of the tax base. Third. Making changes to the Customs Code to stabilize the balance of payments. Four. It's taxation on big business or so-called oligarchi. This is the Act of Ukraine on Transfer Prices and Cancelling the Agreement on the Elimination of Double Taxation with Cyprus. Fifth. This is a series of social bills, including a reduction in the cost of supporting social funds and optimizing the social costs of those people who should not receive funds from the state budget. Next, with regard to deregulation. The Minister of Economics will also present the first deregulation package after the number of licences has been reduced and the number of permits reduced. And there's also a bunch of changes in our package regarding the deregulation of architectural control. And we would also like to ask for your support. The government alone insists on legalizing the game business and earning revenue from the state budget, not in the pockets of law enforcement officials and those who control the business. And in fact, there's a number of bills that are aimed at stabilizing the banking system. It's about the capitalization of Ukrainian banks. Therefore, Mr. Head and honourable national deputies, there is a suggestion to allow these bills to be discussed. Then the laws will go to your committee. And we will actively work on making changes and additions to these laws if these changes and additions correspond to the overall strategy and overall vision of the 2015 budget. In particular, let me talk about the 2015 budget. The budget can only be adopted if you support all previous legislative initiatives. Because it's built on a new tax base, on a new fiscal relationship, on the legalization of shadow income, on the detining of business and on the taxation of big business, and also on the changing approaches to social pay. In view of this, Mr. Head, there is a proposal to go to the drafts and to work. We'll work as hard as we can. Let the deputies get to know each other. Let them work. The government is ready to work 24 hours and seven hours a week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u214	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenija Petrovich. By our order, I invite you to speak with the presentation of the Ukrainian Minister of Finance budget Natalia Ivanovna Jaresko, 10 minutes. We agreed, colleagues, to speak first, and then to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u215	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished fellow ministers and honourable national deputies! Introducing part of the reform package today, along with the 2015 State Budget project, I feel a huge responsibility. All Ukraine is looking at us today. The whole world is looking at us today. Without exaggeration these days will determine the further fate of our country. The Ukrainian people protected their freedom. The Ukrainian army and volunteers are protecting us from military aggression in eastern Ukraine. Many of our fellow countrymen have paid for our safety with their lives, lost many homes, and loved ones. We lost about 20 percent of our economy, more than 50 percent of our industrial production on Donbas. Every day we have 100 million dollars of ATO spending and we are in the most difficult economic situation in the history of an independent Ukraine. In addition to the current problems, we carry luggage, baggage of accumulated deep imbalances that have not been solved in years. And now Ukraine needs every citizen, every business and every entrepreneur to contribute to protecting the country's territorial integrity. The government's task is to fight actively on the economic front. With the help of our international partners, we must stabilise Ukraine's financial situation, strengthen and implement structural reforms and create opportunities to restore growth in 2016. To achieve this, we have worked out a series of reform laws that we ask you to support today, and the laws are focused on achieving three goals: first, fiscal and fiscal decentralization, second, tax simplification and childishization of the economy, and third, the establishment of a level playing field for all. We have found a compromise that will allow us to combine our goals with the fulfilment of the terms of the Coalition Agreement and the observance of the beacons of our international partners, without which it will not be possible to overcome the economic crisis. The Ministry of Finance is presenting for your consideration a draft reform legislation that is the basis for the 2015 State Budget. The first is the Budget Code. The budget code establishes a new system of inter-budget relations and the first growths of decentralization. We give more resources to local budgets, at the same time, we increase their responsibility for spending and introduce soft incentives to create effective communities. We're handing over 100 percent of the fees for administrative services and government duties, a new congregation for retail sales of excise goods, real estate taxes and up to 80 percent of the environmental tax. This will give local budgets an order of 22 billion additional resources in 2015. And it's a great incentive for communities. At the same time, we are transferring part of the VAT to the State budget. But most of it still remains on the local level. Local public authorities will now not have to wait for the approval of the state budget to form their own budgets. They can make it easier to form and get guarantees and borrow -- to choose banks to serve and not have indicative planning from Minfin. And most importantly, in exchange for a system of balancing income and expenditure, we're proposing, in principle, a new system of equalizing the Territory's ability tax. Take, for example, Kharkiv, as an example of the great city, and, for example, the Kalu district, as an example of a small one. As far as the Tax Code is concerned. Tax code is another. The philosophy of the Tax Code is to reduce taxes from 22 to 9 by partially cancelling them and transforming them. This is a way to simplify administration and reduce administrative pressure on business. We're also reducing the burden on small and medium-sized businesses, instead of six different groups on a single tax, we're creating three groups. And we're lowering the bet a little bit, and we're creating a fourth group for farmers. In addition, we are introducing a moratorium on most businesses for two years. Most importantly, we're starting to level the rules of the game for all -- this is the beginning of a fair participation of citizens and businesses in the financing of the state. That's a pretty substantial start. We increase the progressive scale of income tax for natural persons to 20 percent, by the income category of more than 10 minimum wages. We raise the passive income tax to the same 20 percent and add the winning tax to 30 percent. At the same time, for corporate income tax, we have a single accounting for financial reporting standards, thus reducing the amount of tax differences to three, and we just leave it for large businesses. Once again, this is a reduction in administrative pressure on business. We also, including the introduction of a new tax on large cars and jewelry tests. A major step towards detincturing the economy is the introduction of an electronic VAT administration that will enable the state to fight tax pits and essentially fill the budget, and tax payers to simplify business and avoid pressure on business. We went to a business meeting in this and introduced rules allowing the payer to return the overcalculated VAT and to introduce a transitional period without fines throughout the first quarter of 2015. In the agricultural business, we have preserved the existing taxation regime, as required by the Coalition Agreement on Exports to encourage producers who grow and export grains themselves. We've given you the opportunity to make amends to VAT. In the playing field, as the Prime Minister mentioned, we continue here. interest payments on gas. It's the law. One of the most anticipated in business laws. Ukraine is a country with one of the largest wage taxes. This makes payments, as we all know, in envelopes. We are beginning to lower the EU's GDP this year from 41 per cent of the average wage to 25 per cent of the monthly income over two minimum wages. And for two years, we're going to reduce this tax to 15 percent. Yeah, we're looking at a loss in the first place, but the payout from the shadow and the expansion of the base will eventually have a positive fiscal effect. [[Applause]] Thank you. With the introduction of the Transfer Price Act, the offshore paradise in Ukraine is over. Period! Big business. [[Applause]] A large business that makes its profits out of the offshore must pay fair taxes in its own country. By bringing legislation to international standards, we are stimulating big business to real social responsibility. We're also proposing a new regulation of the gaming business, which is de facto existing and flourishing in this country. As a result, we receive an additional two billion taxes on income tax and licenses alone. Other changes include denunciation of the agreement with Cyprus. We need to reload our economic relations with this country with a new agreement, where the basic standards will be in line with the practices of the countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. We also proposed measures to stabilize the balance of payments by introducing a temporary import assembly per year for all products except critical imports. Or the most affected banking and financial system in our situation. So today we're proposing a set of measures to increase the capacity of the banking system. The recovery of the banking system will allow it not only to perform its functions but also to become the engine for the development of our economy. And actually, the 2015 budget itself, which is based on the agreed macroeconomic forecast for real GDP declines by 4.3 percent and inflation by 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u216	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u217	Despite the negative situation, we're coming to you today with a forecast of an increase in nominal income, which, in keeping the deficit within 3.7 percent, will allow us to fund the expenditure by 543 billion. We have an unforgivable year ahead of us, an unforgivable year in which 30 percent of our expenses are planned for defense and debt service. Defence and security spending, which is priority number one in view of aggression in eastern Ukraine, has been significantly increased both in terms of GDP and overall expenditure. We're putting 82.9 billion into the defense budget plus 6 billion guarantees, and we're adding an opportunity of one and a half billion from the Special Fund from the confiscation of confiscated property. Problem number two is the rapid increase in debt service costs. The devaluation increased by 50 percent our external loans. We also have a steep accumulation of domestic debt in recent years. The Naftogazu Capitalization, the banks and the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which together almost doubled our debt service costs to last year. We have managed to save social support for the most vulnerable groups of the population, by keeping the state support for 2.9 million families, by saving the community service allowance system for 5.5 million people in 2015, by saving the scholarships, by saving the workload for teachers, and by keeping the rate of completion, and by saving the support of low-income families for each child. In particular, I would like to emphasize that we are not canceling any aid for ATO participants and displaced persons and investing 2.6 billion in their support. [[Applause]] Friends! Of course, I would be much more pleased to discuss with you the pro-profit budget of a successful country that is economically attractive to the whole world. But as Frank Roosevelt said, he pulled the U.S. out of the big depression: "Do what you can and with what you have. Where you are." And that's why I'm here among you to ask you to come to some compromises. a deficient budget for the stolen and warring Ukraine, which is in dire need of urgent financial assistance and support from our international partners. Dear colleagues! All the measures listed above allow us to strike an honest and responsible balance and the cost of our country for the following year and at the same time lay the foundations for the recovery of the economy in 2016. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u218	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. We agreed, we'll listen to all the speakers and then there'll be questions, and you can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, please, in an orderly fashion. Victor Mikhailovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] Victor Mikhailovich, there's a speech. We're going to finish this speech right now. You're going to ask questions. Please Minister of Social Policy Pavel Rosenko, 5 minutes is the time limit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine! I am presenting today one of the bills that are in the reform package that is being submitted to the State Budget of Ukraine. This is about a bill on reforming the mandatory state social insurance and legalizing the payroll fund. You know, when I hear a social worker talking about the legalization of wages and the shadow market for wages, I always have one figure in front of me: the deficit of the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The following year, the budget grant to the Ukrainian Pension Fund will amount to 90 billion dollars, which is a lump sum of problems that go on year after year. It is these 90 billion dollars that we need only to save and pay early pensions on just the same scale as the small ones that Ukrainian citizens today have. Because if we're talking about at least a slight increase in pensions, it immediately leads to an automatic increase in the budget deficit of the Pension Fund. And that's why there are two ways out of this situation. The first exit was shown three years ago by then reformers when they carried out a so-called pension reform in 2011. We all know her very well. The decisions, although they were said to be unpopular, were very simple at the time: to raise retirement age, to increase retirement by 10 years, to cut the rights of black people, scientists, pensioners, pensioners, and so on. It's a very simple effect, because we've been promised that after three years, there will be no deficit in the Pension Fund budget. But it's been three years, and what did we see today? The budget deficit of the Pension Fund has not only increased, it has only increased, it has increased. And it's no longer giving us the opportunity to raise social standards for the least secure of our people today. So we're not going that way. We're going perhaps in a more risky way. But what we are saying today is that today about 200 billion dollars of shadow wages are paid annually in the shadow labor market. It's a salary that doesn't make a penny into the U.K. Pension Fund. If you do, mechanically, 70 billion dollars a year, that's the only thing that won't get you the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Some 30 billion do not receive local budgets. This is the price we all pay for this factor. Who's to blame? Of course, this is the fault of the state that we are trying to remove today. And the first step we are taking today is to introduce this bill. A bill that consists of three main points. The first thing the Minister of Finance said is that we're going to significantly reduce the only social contribution. Yes, it will be gradual. In the first year of the 15th year, the EU’s wage will be higher than 2 minimum wage, at 25 per cent. Then it's going to go down to 20 percent. And in the 17th year, since January 1st, 17th year, we propose to set the rate at 15 percent. It's not a simple step, I'll talk about it further, but this is an essential step today in today's situation. The second block of the law is a complete step that corresponds to our coalition agreement, the reform of social insurance funds. Where it's clearly written about the need for eventually reform, and sometimes the destruction of this corrupt social insurance model. We are talking today in this bill, as stated directly in the Coalition Agreement, about the merger of two funds, about the reorganization of two funds: a social insurance fund for industrial accidents and a social insurance fund for temporary loss of employment. That'll give us an extra resource. This will give us additional resources to make payments directly to citizens, to reduce administrative payments, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u220	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u221	It'll give us a resource of space, a technology that we can target in other important areas of social policy. You know what state they're in today, and after they're optimized, the social insurance funds will give us an additional opportunity to improve the quality of the services of the socially vulnerable population. And the third block of the question is, of course, increasing responsibility, responsibility for work discipline, responsibility and protection of workers' rights. And so we suggest today that an employee should not be admitted to work without a written contract. We provide for financial sanctions for legal and natural persons for the employee's leave without work relations and part-time work arrangements, as well as for the part-time payment and payment of the only social contribution. Yes, without increased responsibility, in our view, there cannot be full legalization of wages. When I finish my speech, I just want to say one thing. Of course, we understand the risks of this step. We realize that simultaneously reducing the only social contribution will not immediately have a positive effect on the filling of the pension fund and other social insurance funds. But we also understand clearly that if we don't take this step today, there will be no prospects for our pensioners, not in our working citizens today, not in a year, not in five years. It's a risky and uncomplicated step, but we need to make it clear. It's our hand to meet the business today. We understand that we are not just reducing the EU's business, but today we are talking about, firstly, we are reducing tax burden. We will and we are fighting real corruption today. We're going to reduce the regulatory impact on business, what the Minister of Economics is going to say today. We will change the judicial system in order to relieve the pressure of business, including by raiding it. We need to take a step today. Again, today this law is fully in line with our coalition agreement. And I call on our coalition colleagues today to support all the legislations listed and to give way to raising social standards for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u222	Thank you, Minister. Please Deputy Finance Minister Vladimir Makarovich Matviychuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u223	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, reverend Arsenija Petrovich! Honorable National Deputies and Members of the Government! In order to improve the efficiency of the use of social funds, Bill 1577 on amending certain legislative acts and defining them as if they had lost the validity of legislative acts has been submitted to your consideration. The bill provides for amendments to 66 laws. Briefly on the substance of these changes. First. With a view to reducing public expenditure, the failure to allow for an increase in the maintenance costs of government officials under the conditions of an antiterrorist operation is intended to improve the system of all pensions, special pensions, and public officials. The time has come when it will be necessary to switch to the general formula for pensioning, so that the employee in the company or in some office will receive the single pension formula. It will also be broken when a civil servant can retire and sit at home for 10 years and receive 85 percent of the salary, internship, and rank. I think you'll be able to support that. It is also intended to improve the recalculation of special pensions so that it is like the occupational pensions of all those working in the enterprise. I also want to point out that these draft laws, these changes, they will give us an opportunity to save the budget more than 200 million dollars, and to warn us about the additional costs that are provided for in the laws that are passed, which are effective as of January 1, 2015, by 32 billion dollars. This is in addition to the fact that the government has already reduced spending on government authorities in 2014 to about 2 billion dollars, to reduce the number of dollars — 25,000, to eliminate mobile phone expenses, to reduce cars and so on. The funds were earmarked for financing an anti-terror operation in the East. In Ukraine’s years of independence, this is the first order in which funds are used for government bodies. The budget area provides for the granting of the right of the government to approve the conditions of payment for employees of budgetary institutions other than judges, prosecutors and anti-corruption bodies. This will make it possible to avoid the pequestres that have unfortunately been allowed in recent years. It should also be noted that the project extends the rights of local self-government authorities to provide free nutrition for first- or fourth-class students, especially orphans, disabled children, children from low-income families. The rights of local self - government authorities with regard to the provision of students are also being expanded, meaning that there is a forced passage in the transport sector. In particular, I would like to point out that the bill is designed to introduce a level playing field for all applicants to higher education institutions, which will allow them to actually release professionals in any field. There are still certain standards, we are ready to report to committee meetings. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support such approaches in the use of budgetary resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u224	Thank you. Please welcome to the floor of Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ivaras Abromavis. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, this is not a simple time for Ukraine to look ahead. Therefore, the Ministry of Economic Development has provided a number of bills, which are intended to improve the investment climate in the country, so that after the economic situation in Ukraine has stabilized, the business can move forward, so that the investment climate in the country can be improved so that any inspections of licensing will be reduced so that we can raise the capitalization of the entire country and all assets in the country. With regard to the Deregulation Act, it was produced on the basis of public opinion, long-standing information was collected, all stakeholders in the Ministry participated in the working group, beginning with European business associations, the Ukrainian Agrarian Business Club, the best people in the IT sphere, the professional government, non-State organizations such as Easy Business and so on. What have we decided? The first package of drafts is only the first phase of deregulation. In the first phase, we eliminate excessive barriers to business. The second step, which will be very important and will be dealt with directly next week, is the introduction of a mechanism of so-called guillotine or rolling revues, at which all the supervisory authorities will have about a year to prove to the independent commission that their functions are needed by the country. Third. Establishment of preventive mechanisms to ensure that all these regulatory functions are not reinstated, as in previous cases. As for phase number one. We're reducing the number of licences by 15, at the moment there's 56, we're going to have 38. So 2 types of licensed activity, i.e. 5 are combined into 2. Restriction on the use of 4 types of licences. Repeal of 21 regulatory documents, 3 permits and 18 certificates. By industries, which are the most important points. In the food industry, in principle, we all lead to standards with the European Union to allow the food industry to export as many products as possible to the European Union. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned. And here I agree with the Minister of Agriculture, the main thing here is the lifting of unnecessary licences and certificates, including quarantine certificates, and the improvement of land market regulation. In the oil and gas industry, we cancel our obligations by adding 5 per cent of the bioethanol. Because there was a license, but no one has used it yet, and the need to change the target destination of land in geological exploration has been reversed to speed up any exploration in this sector in our country. In the IT sphere, it is very important that the physical seizure of servers is prohibited from this point of view without any trace of the crime. Prior to that, law enforcement authorities had entered, and the servers had been taken away. Of course, the activities had ceased. By "." business, we're cutting back on the application of the registration service, we're introducing electronic registration, we're often insulted by the fact that it's easy to open and it's very difficult to close. The Minister of Justice and I also discussed that the next deregulation package would be much easier to close the firm. In the construction sector, the date of issuance of the declaration of commencement, the date of issuance of the technical conditions from 15 to 30 days to 10 days. I already said the second and third stages, which will be, all those who want to participate in the working group, and there are good ideas, we talked to Mrs. Kugel yesterday, also a great invitation to come and express our wishes. It's also a bill on purchases.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u226	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u227	There's a lot of opacity, a lot of inefficiency. The next six months, therefore, will be a pilot project on purchases of up to 2 million grevens, which is 92 per cent of all purchases, the transition to e-commerce, and savings from 10 to 20 per cent are also expected. As far as personality is concerned. What is the situation with public enterprises now? Data is very different, very bad. In total, we have 3,374 companies, only in 1920. TOP-100 is 92 per cent of the turnover of all state-owned enterprises. So the most important thing, of course, is to focus on them, because in the first six months, they only generated 67 billion dollars of gravel. That is why world experience will be used here, too. the largest number of companies. I do not think that among the strategic enterprises, which to date numbered 14,78, we have left only 551 facilities after discussing this with the public and with individual ministries. And in the end, I would like to bring together the best companies in holding, which is potentially also to be put in charge by someone. The best management company in the world. In Romania, the State granted this in 2010 to the American company Templeton, since then the capitalization of the fund has increased by six times and the fund has paid dividends by one and a half billion dollars. That's why, from my point of view, everything. I'd like you to support these bills. The country needs to develop. And also to support my colleague's proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u228	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the presentation is complete. The point is that bills will be tabled and approved today for further consideration by the committees. What the Prime Minister has said will be the discussions of the government and the national deputies in the working order of the committees. Then I would suggest, given this, I would now offer 15 minutes from factions and groups and 15 minutes from the national MPs. Tomorrow we're going to work all the time, so I think we'll all have time to discuss every detail, including the discussion in the hall. Please sign up from factions, 15 minutes for questions to government officials, for questions. Please, Fatherland, Alexei Mikhailovich Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u229	Rybchin, Fatherland. I'm handing over Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u230	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, we've been talking about decentralization all year. Please tell me, how did it happen that when we analyze the amount of local budgets in the consolidated income and expenditure budget, so on the income of 23 this year, in the following year, 18, in the expenditure of the 42nd, the following year, 40? I have a question, we're talking about financial decentralization, so the income structure has changed, but what you've taken and what you're giving, it doesn't match. To date, local budgets want a different decentralization. And what you're proposing today directly to the poor is wrong. They don't have to translate directly into the poor themselves today, they still get the minimum wage, the pension, the cost of life, everything, and we're doing it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to use the calculator when you claim numbers, it's easier to understand the amount of resources remaining in the local budgets and also to read a presentation. I realize it's hard to understand right now, but the government is willing to give extra calculations to see that in addition to the local budgets there will be about 30 billion dollars, that's the first. The other one. This issue was discussed by all local authorities, and it was strange when local authorities supported it and Parliament did not support it. So let's not rush. Look, read carefully. You'll have better comments -- with great pleasure, I think we're going to take these questions up. Igor, you wanted to add something or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u232	Maybe just two things. In fact, directly analyze the amount of income and expenditure and compare it with the previous year is incorrect, because the structure of both the income and expenditure of the local budget is completely changing, and the logic of the inter-budget relations is completely changing. So comparing them is not correct. Some of our expenses are charged to the state budget and we finance the expenditure that is still being financed from local budgets this year. We're sure to give them extra revenue. So it's necessary to analyze the structure of both income and expenditure and the ability to balance local budgets on a new, completely new, I'm stressing to the budgetary system. And as for real estate taxes, today, as far as the housing fund is concerned, he is still an object of taxation. We're talking about a very simple logic: we can't in Kiev either in the Council or in the government determine what size it should be. We're transferring this to the local level, the definition, including the categories and the size of this tax, on the one hand, understanding that there are certain categories of people and objects that cannot be objects of taxation; on the other hand, every local authority is closer to people and closer to the problems that there are. So this authority will be completely local, not government, not the Supreme Council, if you agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the lines are unforeseeable. I'll just say one thing. In this option that has been discussed, and in particular with local self-government authorities, an additional resource — extra attention! – had to be 39 billion dollars to come to the territorial budgets. It's a positive signal. Next position. The change in the structure of the personal tax on the income of the individuals involved in these proposals is a super positive signal for the territorial communities. And the third position is the real estate tax. No one is going to tax unprotected levels of the population, and there is no need to confuse it, since according to their nature, taking European practices into account, local taxes and congregations include real estate taxes. And since that is the case, the local authorities chosen by people have the right to regulate their taxation within the framework defined by the State. It's perfectly natural. But I think that this discussion can be transferred directly to the committees and determined whether 39 billion actually, or whether that's how the mechanisms that the communities are expecting and everything else are working. Please, National Deputy Linko Dmitry Volodymyrovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u234	Please give the word to Korchinsky Oksana Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u235	Please, National Deputy Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u236	Good afternoon! Question to the Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, please tell me how, when you were preparing the budget, you found defaults for the Euro of 2012 2.7 billion. You've found over 2 billion to improve the skills of cabinet officials and found no money to build the only hospital in Ukraine, the Okhmatdit Children's Hospital, 500 million to treat the most difficult sick children there. How will you view every fifth mother of the cancer child who is now looking for $200,000 to save her child? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u237	As for the repayment of the debts that you have just mentioned, I would like to inform all members of the Ukrainian Parliament. From 2010 to 2014, the government of Viktor Yanuković received $40 billion. This is a sum that doubles the country’s government debt. In 20 years they took less than they took in four years. And we now have to pay for their debts, including the debt you just mentioned. This is a state debt guaranteed by the Ukrainian State. And now we're looking for funds to keep the state from being declared insolvent. As far as your second question of medical financing is concerned. Any additional funds that will be found will be directed at other social projects. There's only one small problem: there's no money. They're just gone. And for us, the main task now was to finance the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the first place. If you, as Ukrainian national deputies, find any additional sources where you can cut, where you can clean up, we will be very pleased to hear you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg you, no unnecessary political emotion. If we have to fund something, and you find income, we'll thank you. And in the process of working on the Ukrainian State Budget Act, we will come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, listen. There's a question. There's an answer. Let's respect each other and not do what we do now. There'll be committee work, you'll ask questions, you'll talk about specific figures that are set out in the budget, including a bigger question that you ask about ohmatdit. Of course, it needs to be funded, built up, placed in a dot. I agree. Please, next question. Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u239	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Since we just got the draft budget, it's very difficult to make an assessment, but three questions are for the finance minister. Mrs. Natal, you said that the GDP drop is programmed at 4.3 percent. At the same time, famous Moody’s and other agencies give Ukraine 6 percent. How does it respond? The second question. Did we really understand that all the indices of social standards will only be implemented since December 2015? And the third question. We've heard nothing about the national currency exchange rate that goes into the budget this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u240	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u241	Thank you. First. We're getting a macroeconomic forecast officially from a government that's approved of the proposals from Mineconomy. This creates a budget, and where did our forecast get 4.3 percent of GDP decline? The second question, if I heard you correctly, is about indexation, which. We don't do the index, but there's an increase that. Right? Since December 1, 2015. Question three. Just remember. About the course. We didn't get the official forecast from the Nazbank of Ukraine, we used it. [[Applause]] We used the average course, which was consensus by a number of investment bankers and economists, and the projections that were made through the Mineconomy, through the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u242	The average exchange rate at the State Budget is 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u243	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, political party of the Self-Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u244	Good afternoon, everyone! Arsenius Petrovich, colleagues. So we really want the government to be successful because we're in the same boat, but it's a very simple situation. Unfortunately, the proposal to lower the EU will not succeed. 41 percent won't come out of the shadow of our entrepreneurs who will pay for it. 25 plus PDF. Today's business is in the dark not because he wants it that way, but because it's such high taxes, and as long as there's a tax hole while there's conversion, as long as there's all that works for today. Six billion VAT per month is thrown into the system of the left VAT with the hole until all of this leads to detinction. We have 487 billion dollars in the official payroll fund. 200 billion, I support Minister Rosenk, an unofficial payroll fund. Even if we legalize all one hundred percent of the unofficial, which is not going to be as long as there's a pit and there's such a big gap between minimization and official payment. Therefore, the proposal is now not to lower the EU's commodity business, because today it is just a gift from the oil industry, the raw material business.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u245	Please. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u246	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have listened carefully to my report, I have just said that the government is fully aware of the risks of this step. And if you look at the state budget of Ukraine's Pension Fund Grants from Ukraine's Gross Budget, that's where these risks are already put in place. We're talking about that, yes, that's an unforgivable step. And the Minister of Finance said that yes, in the first stage, indeed, we expect a certain decrease in income from the Pension Fund budget from the insurance funds. But this is a necessary step. We need to make it clear that we have a fiscal burden on the payroll fund in Ukraine, one of the most important in Europe. We're incompetent. Of course, only by shrinking the EU will we not make every effort. But today, apart from the EU, we are addressing business deregulation issues. We're taking down tax pressure on business. We're going to be, we're going to be talking about we're putting together social media funds, we're going to open social media funds, including business control. So business knows where they're paying these insurance premiums. We are carrying out systematic and complex reforms. Of course, there will be no quick result. But I am convinced as an expert, and the government is also convinced of that. And there's no other way today. We have to make a competitive environment in our country and be competitive, including in the external markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u247	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Korchik Vitaly Andriyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u248	Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u249	Thank you! First of all, I want to thank the government for their professional work in such a short and complex situation. But I want to ask you the next question. Article 197 "Operations exempt from VAT." Previously, the provision of periodicals, printed media, and books, in addition to erotic notebooks, was released. It is now proposed that only the preparation for the publication of books be released in English. So this is just preparation for publication. If we're already limited in language, let's leave the periodicals and distributions. Because we're going to have the newspaper News everywhere. In addition, income benefits for Ukrainian publications are being removed. That's a penny. And for Ukrainian cinematographers. They're encouraging, they're not going to add to the budget, but they're not going to allow us to support Ukrainian culture. Tomorrow on the committee, we will consider it, and I will be grateful if the government listens to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u250	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one minute left. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question not to the government, but to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question is very simple. What was that? What were we listening to? [[Applause]] You, honourable Members, have been briefed on the presentation of the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine. The presentation of the State Budget Act follows a special procedure that no one has changed. There's a speech by the Minister of Finance, there's questions-answers, there's speeches by deputies, and then it's passed on to the committee. If you've heard carefully, you've been presented with laws that you haven't just heard of, you haven't seen, you haven't heard of them. Take a decree, you've been given 47 laws here. And you are presented with 47 laws today that no one has seen, no one has tried to appreciate, and proposes to vote 24 numbers all. Dear colleagues, we are adopting a fundamental law that is important to the country -- the State Budget Act. I demand the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to follow procedures: to consider the budget separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u252	Reverend Victor Mikhailovich, I would like to point out with great respect to you and your profession that there has just been a presentation, a presentation of the budget by the government. Two Supreme Council decrees are also included in the agenda, which set out a special order for the consideration of draft laws, including the budget. Second position. A council meeting of the Coalition Council was held in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, where it was determined which proposal would come from the majority who could receive 226 votes. Third position. No one is forcing you to adopt laws today in order for you to vote them, as you said, with your eyes closed. And I'm going to say five, that today's decision will be made if the will of the national MPs is determined, first, a special order of consideration of the budget. Second, a special order for consideration of laws that are budget derivatives. Third, putting them in the order of the day session, I would like to note that. Fourth, directing them to my commission to be considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council. And, fifthly, on the Committees of the Supreme Council, together with the government in accordance with the procedure, these bills will be reviewed and introduced into plenary sessions according to the procedure for considering the basis of the first reading. Then we will determine how to vote on amendments, how to prepare for second reading, and what else is essentially laws. No one today will allow laws to be put to a vote that has not been seen by national deputies. So I'd like to ask all of these conversations to stop and not change the concept. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to shout, read the Rules. Next position, I now announce 15 minutes of recording, 15 minutes of enquiries by Ukrainian national deputies. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to keep this record very carefully. Do not raise your hand, but register for the record. Please register, 15 minutes before asking the government officials of the Ukrainian National Deputies. As you write it down, I'll give you my word. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Please, Fatherland faction, Lucenko Igor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u253	Please pass it on to Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u254	Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, there are now people on the street who are being cheated by banks who have taken 5 credits and have to pay 20 in return. And one of our colleagues told them that he had passed laws that we didn't want to consider. He handed them over yesterday and told them today. What do I have to say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u256	I'm sorry, Borislav. One moment, please. Did Mrs. Kugel give you this word or what? Is it Alexander Volodymyr? Oh, please. Please, Boris Yuhimovich, I just didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u257	We're handing you the word at your request from our faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u259	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u260	These people just brought the tires, they're being pushed away. They don't hear the voice of the mind. Why? Because they're told that we don't want to deal with this. So I'm talking to you and they're hearing it right now. We have an obligation to deal with all the issues of foreign exchange loans, in your bank, and there's a lot of people there. And at the beginning of the next session in February, consider all the laws and laws that will govern people. Because these people think we don't want to look at them. And I would be very grateful if you would communicate with these people, because right now, Anton Heratchenko and I are the only ones who've put up with these people. Thank you all. And thank you very much to Julia Volodymyr and Mr. Lašek, who supported me in this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u261	I think the whole room is backing up, all the members of the Supreme Council are backing up. And I, using that information you provided, thank you. Then I give the commission to the appropriate profiling committees. Please, Your Honor, we need to consider this issue and find ways to resolve this situation, which is extremely important. And I don't think we can stand out here. So please, the relevant committees have to make this decision, meet people, and find solutions. Thank you. Please, People's Front, Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u262	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the State Budget project provides 4.5 billion dollars for capital expenditure. I am convinced that these capital costs need to be shared not only by the government's decision, but also by the Ukrainian Parliament, and some of these expenses need to be shared with or followed by regional government administrations after decentralization. So I ask that we write in the draft state budget an opportunity to influence the people's deputies, as always, and the local administrations. Because, unfortunately, we have seen this year when the government divides capital costs and local administrations do not even know that these objects in their area will be brought to their minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u263	Please, Mr. First Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u264	Thank you for asking. The draft Budget Code stipulates that the stated capital expenditure is allocated by the government for approval by the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council. Therefore, proposals from national deputies can be considered on the committee. And the committee, as the representative body will be on appropriate issues, will formally agree with the government. If there is no agreement, the government has no right to finance. All of it. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u265	Thank you. All I can do is add that these capital costs have to be transferred to the public regional development fund, which is an integral part of the state budget, where absolutely clear and transparent allocations are made, and no one can overwhelm anyone, and most importantly nothing can be stolen. This is fundamentally important. I think there is an understanding of government on this issue. This is the only question that we need to work on and do as we do in other countries of Europe. There is a Regional Development Fund, and it is also defined as a European resource allocation tool -- fair and clear. But this is during consideration. Please, the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u266	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk of Ukraine, the distinguished Arsené Petrovich of Ukraine, the people who are standing next to the Supreme Council, who have taken on foreign exchange loans, and today, this is a stun in the neck, this is a huge problem for the country that the government and the National Bank are going to solve together. And let's not pretend that nothing is happening, because the problem is, in fact, not just millions of Ukrainian citizens, but this is a problem for the National Bank and the government that are responsible for the state of affairs in Ukraine. So, Volodymyr Borisovich, I demand that you, as Head of the Supreme Council, be brought here to the rostrum of the National Bank of Gontarev for a report. He doesn't want to go voluntarily, so you can drag this parasite down on the latrines here, and it's going down the course of the bracelet, and it's going down, and it's going down, and it's going down, and it's going to rob millions of people. In the van over here, in the Supreme Council, drag, but report what's going to happen to the bracelet, how the rate of the bracelet stabilizes, how we're going to protect citizens' assets, how we're going to protect ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u267	Thank you. I'd like to ask a colleague to demonstrate a completely new culture of thought formulation, because I don't think a woman can be introduced into such a culture. That's a phrase. But I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that yesterday after the meeting of the Conciliation Board, I officially sent a letter to prepare the head of the National Bank for parliamentary work and to answer questions. I also had a personal conversation with the head of the National Bank. She is absolutely ready to come and give information to the national deputies and answer questions. So I would like to ask that we should be as considerate with you as possible, regardless of the severity of the problem. Thank you. Please, "Occupy Block", Martovitch's Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u268	Deputy Martovicki, 36 constituency. Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u269	Debtenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u270	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Here I would like all the citizens who listen to this meeting and some members of Parliament, perhaps the members of the Cabinet, who do not fully realize that they are trying to continue in this room and the members of the coalition, to say that there is no decentralization of speech in fact. Beautiful words, but in fact they don't. In fact, the entire financial base in the form of NDF is being eliminated from local budgets, and a financial base in the form of an environmental tax is being phased out. Let's call things our names. As far as I'm concerned. It's centralization. As far as determination is concerned, we haven't seen anything either. What kind of detonation could it be? What can be the detonation in the introduction of a progressive scale of taxation? With regard to the issue of money, 60 billion, the maximum issue. Last year there were 25 billion. So is this, like, the National Bank's income or is this another inflationary trend, which is now 25 percent? Regrettably, all these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u271	Thank you. Next, please, Gregory Nemira, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u272	Please pass the word to Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u273	Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u274	Thank you. You know that Albert Einstein said it was the most stupid thing to do the same and to expect another result. Arsenius Petrovich, exactly the same approach as that of all previous governments. If we're talking about simplifying procedures for a small, medium-sized business, please tell me where did I feel that? Shortening of licenses? Yes, we have already voted a bill in the first reading. I can tell you that after this package, small business gets worse. Because you want 50 percent of its costs not to be taken into account if it works with businesses. For whom is small business created? He survives because he works for clusters with big business. You throw them out of the market, you don't cut them any taxes. What you wrote is that your program is a continuation of the coalition agreement, read what it says. We're together, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u275	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u276	I think the Minister of Economics might comment on this further. I would also like to read the papers, Your Honor, Alexander Volodymyrna. The tax rate for small and medium-sized businesses we're cutting it down twice, that's the first. Second, for two years, all small and medium-sized businesses are closed. Third, we introduced a deregulation package: minus 15 licenses, minus 3 licenses and minus 18 control documents. Fourth, these are just the first steps. And show me, please, exactly where you see the pressure on small, medium-sized business. We think it's the foundation of the Ukrainian economy today, and that's why we've made a simple decision: don't touch small and medium-sized businesses, let them make their own money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u277	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u278	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u279	Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u280	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, Vladimir Borisovich, to your attention, we've really violated the budget issue today. And I support that opinion of the deputies. First of all, we didn't have time to get to know each other, and second of all, there's a note that our interfractional merger has offered to reject the draft budget in order to allow MPs to study it and get to know it more. Sadly, though, the apparatus refused. But the question is now essentially to the Minister of Finance, and, most importantly, to the progressive scale of taxation. I haven't heard a word or seen them tax the oligarchs and how we're going to deal with budget deficits, including offshore withdrawals. Because not only Cyprus, but other countries, unfortunately, are also spending billions abroad today, and we do not see that fight from our side. We have submitted a bill to break the Cyprus Agreement, but unfortunately there is a refusal, so on the side of the ICC, on the committee we have considered, we have rejected our bill. That's why we're stressing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u281	Thank you for asking. First of all, Cyprus. This decision, if approved by the Supreme Council, gives the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the opportunity to open new negotiations with Cyprus after a change. This will stop this process that most businesses use. The other one. The transfer pricing project is about to put the risk at a point in the ability to export revenue abroad. Third. We leave the rent and raise the rent on gas, especially on. Up to 70 percent. All of this, as you call it, beats oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u282	Thank you. Please, Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u283	I'm asking you to give the word to Ivan Grigorievich, but give the line to Kugel because she was mentioned in her speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u284	Please, National Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u285	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, I personally wish to address you. One of the points of growth that you presented in the Government's Activity Programme is that you rightly called agribusiness and agriculture. Plus $10 billion a year is a positive balance in food trade. Of course, we have no right to destroy this point of growth. I ask you personally, Arsenija Petrovich, you said from the rostrum that you agreed with the IMF that you would not touch any tax base in agriculture until 2017. This is so important before a difficult year, since the dry autumn was. We have a very difficult time ahead of us. Please confirm this to all 50,000 farmers. The tax system in the village will not change this year. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u286	Dear Ivan Grigorovich, I would like to remind you once again. Part of the coalition agreement is the abandonment of a valid tax system to the added cost of agricultural producers. Our foreign thinks that with 10 percent of GDP in the Ukrainian agricultural sector, they pay only 1 percent of that 10 percent to the budget is unacceptable. We had long-standing discussions and, despite the insistence on moving everyone to a general tax system, we left in the draft of the State Budget Act and in the Tax Code a valid tax system for the added value of agricultural enterprises. As I said from the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u287	Thank you. Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u288	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u289	Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u290	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Dear Government! Today, thousands of people — veterans, Chernobylers, Afghans, teachers, doctors — have taken to the streets. They went out to the streets and asked you, Prime Minister, how do you expect people to live in 949 bracelets this year? How to sell. Living on the salary of 1218 grevens? How is it today that those who have protected our country, who have saved and protected people from the Chernobyl reactor, like veterans who have given our country peace for 70 years, today, with their hands stretched out to stand and kneel at your last penny? Why do we see in this budget again the fictitious inflation rate of 13 per cent, the effective dollar rate of 17 bracelets? Today, the market is already on the market. Return to the people if you speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u291	Thank you. Andrey Leonidovich, the "Will of the People" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u292	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the government! Arsenius Petrovich, we understand that you unfortunately have to live under the difficult conditions of a total range of professionals, including Gotarev. Nevertheless, we would like to hear that the minimum wage and subsistence minimum will not be raised in December, but even in the first quarter. You've always said it honestly, say it now. That's what I'm asking. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Medium Finance called me and said that this was the first time that the Ministry of Health was putting down a budget that would be called “the budget of genocide” from the point of view of health. I ask that you organize and hold a meeting not only with coalition representatives, but also with representatives not members of the coalition, our “will of the people” faction, the “Economic development” faction on two key issues: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u293	Thank you. It was an offer. Dear colleagues, the time for questions from the national deputies is exhausted. I'm offering two minutes of factions. If there's no objection, yes, Victor Mikhailovich. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u294	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. We're going to discuss the country's fundamental law. It's not a simple law. We know that the biggest challenges today are in the budget area. I insist that we allow the factions to speak out of factions as provided for by the procedure. Allowing members to express, register, and express their position on the budget. We voted in favour of continuing to deal with all the issues, but let us discuss and express our position on this very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u295	Thank you. I have to emphasize this one more time. Or we don't understand each other. We'll be discussing this issue on Thursday. By Thursday, there will be work in committees, factions, and political groups. There'll be work to do. When the subject is considered, we will consider. I gave you my word, thank you. Please. Does it make sense for factions and groups to give a performance for two minutes or not? Yes, yes. Please sign up for two minutes from factions and groups, and we'll take the risk. To sum it up. Two special order decrees. Please, Self-Help. From Self-Help, Alan Valerian Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u296	Thank you. The Self-Help faction got acquainted with the government's revenue estimates for 2015. What can we say? That we don't share the government's forecast today, which is very optimistic about income tax revenues because we expect to receive these revenue from the increase in minimum wage. At the same time, according to the materials given to us, we see that this increase will only take place in December 2015. Then we see that these assumptions are also affected by the legalization of wages. Yet we do not support the introduction of a progressive model of taxation of the income of individuals, as this does not contribute to the legalization of income. The more wages, the more taxes. Please tell me, who's going to legalize the income? Nor can we support such things as the payment of monthly advance taxes on income, since this eliminates the costs of circulation from entrepreneurs and requires payment of taxes in advance. We don't support the local authorities' excise tax rate from 2 to 5 percent. We think that the bet should be one, at least five percent. We cannot support the introduction of VAT administrations as proposed, because we see that the administration of this tax increases and affects entrepreneurs. Because we're going to record all the entries in the registers and so on. This has a negative effect on entrepreneurship. We absolutely do not support the proposals for decentralization proposed here. On numerous requests from the Association of Ukrainian Cities and the Committee of Budgets on Accounting, Subsidies for Grants.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u297	Thank you. Please, Barreza Yuri Mikolaiovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u298	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Pashinsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u299	Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u300	Thank you. Dear friends, all the questions raised in this room are extremely important and relevant, and they have the right to life. But we seem to have forgotten the state of our country at the moment. 10 percent of the economy was destroyed as a result of the aggression of the Russian Federation. Part of the territory's been annexed. Part of the territory is controlled by terrorists and the Russian Federation. I want to say on behalf of our faction that we support the adoption of this budget. Because it's a budget, first of all, defense. Because in this budget, by the way, a coalition agreement, for the first time, 5 percent of GDP was invested in defence and security. These are huge costs for our poor and poor budget. But, you know, when we do these political talks, when we don't accept this budget, when we don't compromise, when we don't provide the army and the Nachvard by April of the month, you know, all this talk about the investment climate, about the small and medium-sized business will be irrelevant. Because this is where Putin's protectorate will sit and rule over us. And I want to say it again. We have three or four days to find consensus, to mobilize, and to adopt our nation's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u301	Thank you. Please, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u302	It's a culinary request to pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u303	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u304	Thank you. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Arsenija Petrovich, please tell me, it doesn't seem to you that when we take into account the tax return on the added value just for grain producers, we put all the crops in unequal conditions. Because if you take statistics in the last six months after export, you can export only about 15-20 percent of all growers. At the same time, three fixed agricultural taxes have been increased since January 1. And taking into account the changes in the Tax Code, this rule increases by 16 times. Taxes on real estate in agriculture are increasing. These are so - called industrial warehouses, cows and so forth. So, you know, your words when you say that nothing changes. On the contrary, it changes and is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u305	Thank you. Please, Alona Ivanovna's Skrum, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u306	Please pass the word to Mrs. Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u307	Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u308	Dear Arsenia Petrovich, distinguished members of the government! You know, terrible disappointment. This is because I have this political experience. Please tell me why you had to simulate the coalition process for 10 days. Why did we hold meetings? Why would we want to help the government produce a document that would once again set an example of social consolidation to solve problems? There are no reforms. There is only one rule that reduces payments to judges, which can be applied to judicial reform. It's about small business. Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, your Licensing Act has no right to register with the Supreme Council. Because the Supreme Council now has the Licensing Act, adopted in the first reading. That's what I told each of you three times. This is a question of still long-awaited income. But today, small business pays the only tax, you didn't cut it. You gave a big one, with a circulation of 20 million. And that's 3 percent of all small, medium-sized businesses. And the only social contribution, which is a tremendous strain on small business, you haven't touched it. Because you've given only large businesses that have a salary of 5,000 dollars. Thank you. We're proposing a completely different ideology. For 10 days, we suggest that 10 percent of the population who own 90 percent of Ukraine’s wealth and property should pay and generate income. There's nothing. You're planning to rent. You're going to take the rent off the ammonia pipeline that today transports ammonia and has 900 million revenue and only 16 million profits. Arsenius Petrovich, we have proposed immediately, and the income section begins with the rich. If you didn't touch a small business, you'd just take off your salary, they'd thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u309	Next, please finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u310	Arseny Petrovich, you can make a 100-time decision that there will be no checks. But they're taken by battle. Fights. It's not a test. They come if you don't pay, you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u311	Thank you. Please, Nechayev Alexander Igorovich, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u312	Please give the word to the head of the faction Boyko Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u313	Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u314	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable officials, I think Arsenius Petrovich that you have confused the parliamentarians with the students. And when we heard this lecture, frankly, I also had the impression that we were present today at another pianist event. Unfortunately, that's not possible. Taking into account the state of the country's economy and considering that at least we needed to distribute the draft budget early in order to be able to study and conduct a professional discussion rather than just listen to this lecture. I think that from what we've been able to do, it's clear that this is the budget of total social cuts. And the support of the real economy is virtually limited. And we can see that he stayed away from the processes that are going on in the formation of the budget. We were particularly surprised by your proposal to have the Double Tax Elimination Act in Cyprus, because you probably didn't report that in 2013 really 25 percent of our exports, of our country's production went through Cyprus, was in the first place. In 2014, the situation changed. By 9 months of this year, 49 percent of the country's production had gone through Switzerland, and Cyprus was the tenth largest in the world with 12 billion exports, and instead of Switzerland, we had 136 billion exports. The Russian Federation is second to 83 billion. That's why we think it's a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u315	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u316	And this is not how we can approach very important processes that can actually create good for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u317	Radical Party, Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u318	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. After familiarizing ourselves with the 2015 draft budget introduced by the government of the distinguished Arsenius Yatsenuk and the ministers for whom we voted, we can say the general impression of our faction. This budget can be called the bureaucrat budget, eating and the debt gap budget. We didn't make that deal with you! You're telling me there's no money?Oh, my God! To maintain the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine in the budget of the following year, 4 billion dollars. What I'm asking is, do we need that many billion dollars for the prosecution? To maintain the State Fiscal Service, 5 billion dollars. To maintain the government’s administration of affairs, a billion dollars. To meet debt obligations, nearly 100 billion dollars. And we say we don't have the money to build the OHMATDIT 500 million, we don't have the money for medicine, we don't have the money for education, we don't have the money to feed our children, we don't have the free textbooks in schools, we don't have the resources to create jobs for young people! We realize that our country is in a state of war. We understand the need and the need to adopt this budget. But you don't have to hide from war in order to leave the oligarchic and criminal schemes in this budget. Can you show me a reduction in the number of officials? Where is he? Show me the elimination of the oligarchic schematics? Where are they? Can you show me how to get rid of the shadow schematics? Where are they? None. This is a budget that tightens the belt, closes the necks of Ukrainian citizens, and we're waiting for a government budget that will tighten the neck of the oligarchs that eliminates the shadow schemes that eliminate the oligarchic class in our country. That's the kind of budget we're going to vote for. For this one, it's only because of my corpse. We will not vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u319	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u320	Dear National Deputies! I am saddened by how a very important bill is being discussed, and even more saddeningly, when I became acquainted with the draft budget itself. The fundamental value of the budget is its ability to fulfil its obligations. The critical years of budget deficits, debt incursions, have inevitably led to the situation we are facing now, and the Ukrainian government cannot lend money either in the internal or in the external market. In the external market, the only creditor remained -- the rapid assistance that the International Monetary Fund and its related institutions were. In the internal market, the only creditor is the National Bank of Ukraine. This year, the budget deficit has reached critical levels – about 15 per cent of GDP or over 200 billion dollars. And when the government calls you the deficit number 68 billion dollars, it forgets to say, and where is the 110 billion dollars that Naftogaza has gone? Or them. The government of the Russian Federation or the government of the United States? No, I don't. the government of Ukraine, where are the 10 billion and 11 billion that went to the Deposit Guarantee Fund and to recapitalize banks? It's all a budget deficit. The budget deficit is the main challenge that the country must respond to. Does the draft Law on Budgets solve this problem? If you look at the figure, this looks like a small deficit figure of 64 billion dollars. But let me tell you a little secret: in Ukrainian realities, you can't estimate deficits as a difference in expenditure and income for one simple reason: much of the government's spending is done outside the box, outside the expenditure. They're not reflected in the budget, they're not counted as expenditures. This budget is no exception. If you count, you open up an extra number two to a budget called "Financing," it's a reflection of the budget deficit, there's another 88 billion dollars. It's a budget deficit, already a figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u321	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u322	The figure is 152 billion dollars. But notice, there are four unprecedented articles in the law that allow the government to increase expenditure beyond the scope provided for by the State Budget Act with an appropriate adjustment to the size of deficit and debt. Another important moment. If you look at the income figures, they're unrealistic. The General Fund of the State Budget should receive 452 billion dollars. This year, the budget receives 290 billion dollars. How can you get an increase of 160 billion? I made an adjustment because the National Bank's income is going to triple, up to 65 billion dollars, I made a correction to the law that we just passed today, about the tax and other changes I ruled out. Please tell me, how can the economy decline by 4.3 percent and in inflation by 11 to 14 percent ensure a 24 percent increase in income? Then either the forecast is wrong, we're not going to have inflation at 11-12 percent, or we're going to have an absolute big increase in gross domestic product. Neither one nor the other, unfortunately, is waiting for us. The draft budget does not contain decisions to balance the budget. It contains a partial cosmetic decision in the area of income. But what I want to say is, in terms of income, we can't find a solution. For what reason? When the government says that the government's spending is 48 percent of GDP, it's been distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u323	Victor Mikhailovich, finish. Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u324	I ask that I be allowed to speak in accordance with the law procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u325	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u326	The government forgot to add 110 billion to Naftogazu. Are these not expenses? The government is responsible for these expenses. The government has forgotten to add the 20 billion that it has invested in bank capitalisation to repay loans, which is already 56 percent of GDP. And if you think about the hundreds of tens of laws that have been passed for decades that haven't been implemented, but the rules are working, there's another 10 percent of GDP, we're going to figure it out. Ukraine has public spending of 66 percent of GDP. How can we avoid moving spending, balancing the budget in this situation? What worries me is that the government is starting to cut costs that can't be cut. I don't know where the idea came from: to translate the problems of the country into those who live at a low level. The bill foresees a reduction in the minimum wage and subsistence minimum, which is not indexed, which index is foreseen only in October. December of the following year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u327	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u328	It is unacceptable to translate the problems of the poorest category of people; they do not have the right to be victims in today’s situation. [[Applause]] Another very important thing, you may not have noticed that the de facto government is turning the National Bank into a department of the Ministry of Finance. In Ukrainian legislation, there is a direct rule that prohibits monetary financing of budget deficits. By the way, I'm informing you that today, the monetary financing of the budget deficit is 10 percent of GDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u329	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. You've been out for five minutes for 30 seconds. How much time do you need? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thirty seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u330	I think non-experts understand the risks that. The challenges that stand here. What Does the Government Predict? The government foresees essentially the compulsory replacement of the National Bank bonds, which is called restructuring. If the government doesn't know what restructuring is, I don't want to use that bad word. Because it's a very bad signal. Debt restructuring has one name. I'm not going to call her that. Last thing I want to say is, I thought I needed to do it. You have to tell society honestly about the problems. There are no simple decisions in this situation in which Ukraine finds itself. We must be honest before society and not be afraid honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u331	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u332	We have to close all offshore schemes, any possibilities of tax avoidance, including those that cause a mixed reaction in this room. Third. We have an obligation to stop passing any bill that increases expenditure or reduces the budget's income. Before the election, let the ideas of populism leave our heads at least until the election. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u333	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Anything else, you'll be speaking on the committee. And for that, I did it, my honourable colleagues, so that we could look at the budget in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And it was productive and professional, along with the government. I ask you, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, a summary word. And we will consider the Order of Special Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u334	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Thank you for the number of performances I just heard. And I'd like to make a few comments. First. Correct a clear comment on the increase in small and medium-sized business taxation. And to make it clear that -- please raise the honourable MPs, the law article -- the tax rate on small and medium-sized businesses is doubling. And secondly, there's an increase in the limit on which the tax is not paid at all. Next. The same as for macroeconomic indicators. An interesting macroeconomic lecture, I would also like to comment on it. Here, on this rostrum of this Parliament, just 10 days ago, speaking and presenting the Government's Action Programme, it was clearly stated that the general deficit in public finances, i.e. the government deficit today, is 68 billion dollars. We didn't get five percent. At this point, it was clearly pointed out that the next figure is the deficit of the National Shareholder Company (NAC) Naftogaz Ukraine, which is 110 billion dollars that we funded and funded because we couldn't raise the tariffs. Untraceable tariffs mean that there is no market price for gas and oil, which means that we're taking these costs out of the budget and financing a hole in NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. Third: with regard to budget projections. Objectively, in terms of arithmetic, at a negative 4.3 percent of GDP growth, it is difficult to say that the budget’s income should increase. Well, if you don't know the details, you have to look at the details. We have foreseen in this law and in the package that you've all been talking about, this is a reform package for the country: first, detinization and legalization, the most tax burden on the oligarchi business, the big business; the adoption of transfer pricing, the increase of three times the rent on oil, on gas, on gas condensate; the increase of three times the rent on ore; the avoidance of double taxation, the closure of VAT-accounts, by which (in your opinion, calculations) was almost 20 billion dollars. That's why, dear friends, we don't view Ukraine's State Budget Act as a separate document. This document should be adopted at the end. Without the adoption of a general package, out of the 15 laws that are now in Parliament, after detinction, delligarchization, demonopolization, deregulation and decentralization, nothing will happen. In other words, as members of the coalition, you formed a government. It is a coalition government that has worked with you for the past three weeks. For one simple reason, 20 percent of the Ukrainian economy was destroyed by Russian military aggression. The $40 billion opposition here asked how to explain to people how to live better -- find Yanukovic, take $40 billion, and then he'll do better. That he stole from the budget. Third. Dear National Deputies! I appeal to all of you with one request: a request for political responsibility. It's all clear. All for the people of Ukraine. Everyone knows how much better. Everyone has geniuses and excellent suggestions. They accept anything, only realistic, not populist. My position is clear. The country is in an excessive financial state. Everything we could have done in nine months, we did. Everything we can do in 2015, we'll do as well. But this is a shared political responsibility for Parliament, government and the President. And if anyone thinks he's going to sit down, they're going to take one of them down, and the other one's going to sit down, that's not going to happen. This is also a responsibility to the country’s share and to millions of Ukrainians. I ask everyone to accept these bills for consideration. You comment on them without reading. You haven't even read them. That's why we sent them to you today to get these bills to Parliament. To convene committee meetings, to invite members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to work out all laws and adopt laws, not to engage in cheap political populism that actually led to the bankruptcy of the country. That's why I'm asking everyone to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u335	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich. Dear fellow national deputies, taking into account all that has been said, and the discussion we have had with you without making any appropriate decisions. We have two decrees with you given out that predict that today you and I will form a list of legislation that we will consider, a list of sessions that we will consider tomorrow on the committees. According to the Committees, a voting room will be introduced on Thursday as defined, including by the Council of the Coalition during the meeting. And then we figure out that we're working through Sunday, we're looking at drafts. Still, if we have to make other decisions on Sundays, we make them, consider them, and make them. But now it's obvious that this whole process is moving into the walls of Parliament. And as the Prime Minister said, together with the ministers, in the committees, we begin to discuss every norm, approach, understanding of the laws that should be adopted as derivatives of the budget. That's why we've got, respectable colleagues, 2 decrees -- 1000-P and 1000-P1. Now, I'd like to suggest that you accept them without discussion, but what I said, just these dates, there's no one there. And determine the dates of the following. In paragraph 1, paragraphs 2 to 23 of December, the date is set. In paragraph 2, set the date of December 28. In paragraph 3 is December 28th, which is what we move to Sunday. So that we can organize the work properly. And then, as you do, when you make the proposal, we'll look at it. For the reasons of the vote, please, Yuri Lucenko. For reasons of vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u336	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I want to make your point, we really only got these papers at 6:00 in the morning today, and then at 9:00 in the morning. That's how many. So no decision is made today by the coalition before we, together with the experts, study these materials. However, the budget process needs to start. Therefore, the request is now to support the decisions that we will take on Thursday for the first reading of these documents, 44 laws and two codes, and Sunday for the second reading, and Tuesday for the National Budget of Ukraine. Please support these two orders with the selected changes in the graph. As a way to get to the bottom of the government's drafts. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u337	Is that the position taken? Let me put it to the vote. Yeah? Proposal to vote Order No.1000-p with proposals by Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka as a basis and as a whole. Right? Vote. Please determine by vote. Please determine by vote. But that's the plan of work, dear colleagues. On the basis and in general. On the basis and in general. [[15:40:20]] For 253 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, this is a decree that you and I have made a commitment to work on the State Budget, and we will do so all the time. Now it's regulation number two, next thing you know. This is an order for registration number 1000-p-1, the draft Decree "On the Specificities of the Procedure for the Consideration of Bills, which relates to the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. This is what the Prime Minister said about the bills, which are listed in 47 bills. Of these, 3 separately, under the insistence of the Fatherland faction, which relates to the gaming business, let's look at it separately. So now I'm putting 44 laws to the vote, plus the decree that it has, is going to be formed into the order of the day of the session, 1592. Dear National MP, can you, can you not scream so loudly in your left ear? Please. Plus Decree No. 1592, author of Laško, on payments to the victims of the Svalirable, which was by authority in Maidan. She agrees with the government that she will be included in this list for consideration of the order of the day session. I propose that she be put to the vote without discussion. To vote on the basis and in general, and then to consider the issues raised by the Fatherland. Please put to the vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session, in the agenda of the session, colleagues. In order of the day session. [[15:42:18]] For 266 This tells us that we have formed a list of laws that we will be working on, honourable colleagues. Maybe someone doesn't want to work, well, they won't. The factions, please. Well, now you've made your decision and we'll work. Now there are 3 billings on the gaming business. Bill No. 1572, No. 1571 and No. 1564, under the insistence of the Fatherland faction. About Bookmaker activities in Ukraine, about casino activities in Ukraine, and about measures aimed at promoting bank capitalization and restructuring. Individually, there is a proposal to vote and to include them in the agenda of the day session. That's why I'm voting too. Please, Oleg Berezuk, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u338	I ask you again. Are we voting for them to vote on their own? Or is it about bringing them in?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u339	I already split them up during the vote. As we agreed during the meeting. Turn around. As for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, consider these three bills. Please, who's in favour of including the agenda of the day session, please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of this session. [[15:43:46]] For-188. The decision is not taken. They're not included. All right, good fellows. Let's move on. We have a few more decisions. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u340	Honourable members of the coalition, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Perhaps not everyone understood what they had just voted for. Let me explain again. Three bills aimed at legalizing bookmaking, lottery, and casinos. The point is that the whole business is booming now, but it's not paying for the state budget. We think we need to legalize business immediately, take 2 billion dollars for selling licenses to this business, including sending them to Ohmatdit, for example, and completely detense, and put all this shadow business under state control. So, honourable colleagues, I emphasize, one who does not support the legalization of the shadow gaming business, that means that he supports the presence of casinos, lotteries, "one-armed bandits" in the shadows where they don't pay taxes and where they rob from the pockets of Ukrainians. Please come back to this question!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u341	Colleagues, decree. Let's do that. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Look, I give my word to everyone, I respect them, and you abuse them. That's not good. We should be tolerant and show respect to one another, even regardless of what different positions are. There's an offer to come back. We don't have to vote for the return. Let me re-vote these three laws, taking into account the Prime Minister's proposal. Please, three laws on the game business, number. Include only sessions in the agenda. Just the sessions. Please, Borislav Bereza's word. And who else wants a word? Beresuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, then, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, the Trinity is now the only area in Ukraine where there is no casino or gambling illegal business. I can tell you that we need to legalize this business. But not the kind of bill Mr. Yatsenuk is trying to get. Because it's an exclusive lobbyist law that lobbies the interests of the Moscow corporations that work in Ukraine, it's MSL and Patriot. It's money that goes to Russia, and it's armed with Russian mercenaries. Mr. Yatsenuk, if you don't know about this, it's very funny. The other one. I don't understand why you're lobbying a law that can only put two and a half billion into the budget. When Ukrainian players are willing to pay up to 9 billion dollars. Then tell me, who is hiring you from the law of Ukraine or from Moscow players. Mr. Yatsenuk, I understand you're very upset right now. Well, you don't understand why I'm telling you this. Because someone has to tell you in your eyes that what you're doing is rude and you're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u343	So let me not agree with this for one reason. Now, listen carefully, distinguished national MPs, I'll give you a minute. Listen, people's deputies, be careful. We voted to include these laws in the agenda of the day session, where they will be discussed in factions, committees. Corrections will be made, if necessary, and no questions will arise. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u344	If you allow the line to be played. Please also read the laws. Because you've just found out that there's going to be a state-run savings bank that's going to have a state monopoly on the lottery.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u345	Mr. Bereza, please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u346	which is the state bank of Ukraine, is Moscow. The other one. As for the participation of foreign capital in lottery tickets. I emphasize that the law clearly states that no less than 70 percent of property should be owned by Ukrainians alone. And the third. I support you to find out who works for Moscow, and here I have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u347	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u348	Please pass the voice to Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u349	Yegor Sobolev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Bereza, please! One minute! Dear colleagues, look. Borislav Yuhimovich, just a minute. So let's not scream from the place, not do a show in the Parliament Hall, where all smart people have to respect each other. Calm down! There's a speech, you said your position from the rostrum, you were answered by the Prime Minister. I said my position. Calm down! What are you yelling at? Everyone's hearing, I think it's okay. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u350	Friends, first of all, let's remember that the gaming business is now completely banned and the Ministry of Internal Affairs has the responsibility to stop criminals if they violate this law. Second, the Prohibition Act. [[Applause]] The law banning gaming business was passed with enormous overforces of society, after the lotomania covered the whole country. And if you forgot, ten people were burned, after which the law was only voted. So each member of parliament has a legitimate concern about the idea of legalizing the gambling business. If there's such an initiative in the government from a difficult financial situation, let's create a normal working group and draft a bill that everyone agrees with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u351	That's a nice offer. Nice offer, I don't think there should be a conflict here. Because here, you know, yeah, everything has to be very public and weighed, so I'm supporting the proposal, I think it's going to be good for everyone. Create a working group to include our professional deputies there, work on it, and, together with the government, they'll make a comparative proposal, and we'll vote. Do you have a deal? All of it. Remove the question from the examination. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. We have several decisions. We have several decisions to consider. By the government, I think that's it. Yeah, we don't have any more questions. I'm asking for the only thing. Arsenius Petrovich, I ask that you organize the committee work properly with the deputies, and directly with the ministers. Thank you to the government for working in the session room. Thank you. [[Applause]] And thank you, Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, we still have a few orders before the day. One decision relates to the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organizations, to inter-parliamentary assemblies on the liberation of the Ukrainian airman and to the national deputy of Ukraine on the eighth call of the Savachenko Hope, we have, in the agenda of the day alone. You understand, you turned on and went to work on the committee. There is still a draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act (as regards the conditions for the involvement of professionals) – Prince Ruslan Petrovich, also included in the agenda. We can do this without question. I then vote in the agenda of the Amendments to Article 46 of the Procurator's Act (as regards the conditions for the involvement of experts). Ruslan Kzazievich, please, for registration number 1530. Please vote, just for consideration, and for Savechenko. Please vote. Yes, of course. Please vote in the agenda, Your Honor, please vote. Please vote. [[15:52:31]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions. And I made it separate. Let us once again vote in the agenda on a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organisations and inter-parliamentary assemblies on the liberation of the Ukrainian airman and the Ukrainian National Deputy on the Eighth Call for the Hope of Viktorovna Savchenko. Until the daytime. Dear colleagues, carefully, please. Is everyone ready to vote? Please vote on the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council (project registration number 1584). [[15:53:20]] For 291 Decision taken. I'm voting again because it's not clear what we're voting for. Draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. These are formal signs that will allow, including professionals, I understand, to work at the prosecution's office. Please, it's just the order of the day session, and then you'll look at the committees, define yourself. Is everyone ready to vote? All of them. I ask you to put it to the vote, registration number 1530, for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[15:54:05]] For 165 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. By factions, please 112 by Peter Prashenko's Block, 5 by the People's Front, and so on. Dear colleagues, we still have four rulings with you. We can bring them together, these are the rulings of the Committee on Science and Education, the head of the committee, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailnovna. Three, I'm sorry, and one is the Chamber. By one order, please report 1339, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u352	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We've got you. With you at the end of the year, there is a debt to the education system and to young scientists. That is, these rulings apply to the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to teachers of general education, vocational and technical, pre-school and extra-school educational institutions in Ukraine. This decision has been in force since 2007, and we are handing out such bonuses this year to 24 people from this system. They went through a very tough competition, submitted to district councils, and these funds are in the budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next order. Shall I report three immediately, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u353	Please. I think it's going to be perfectly normal right now three.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u354	The next decision concerns the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scholars. It's about the size of a scholarship 2,000 dollars a month. These scholarships have been in effect since 2007. This year, 30 candidates were applied for and selected, young, talented scientists under 35 years of age who went through a tough selection through an appropriate competition with a competitive commission made by authoritative scientists. Similarly, the Supreme Council has funds for these scholarships. Finally, the third ruling concerns the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prizes to young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2013. The competition was held in December 2013, but during 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine failed to grant these awards. The amount of the prize is 20,000 dollars each, and a group of applicants for a single prize cannot exceed four. As a result of the competition, 20 such prizes of the Supreme Council were also awarded to 43 young scientists working in the field of fundamental and applied research. Dear colleagues, it's our debt, these funds are in the budget of the Supreme Council for this year, I've been urging you and the Committee on Education and Science to vote in favour of these decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u355	Thank you, Reverend Lilia Mikhailovna. Any questions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there are two questions. Please, Lilia Mikhailevna, stay in the rostrum. A stormy national MP. And then. Two questions, three questions, four. Let's do it, dear fellows. After a reduced procedure, we're going to do it now so that we don't give the word: two for, two against. And we vote. Please write down two in favour, two in favour. Barna Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u356	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear friends, it is a unique opportunity to support Ukrainian youth once a year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We should use and maximize our young people’s incentives to love Ukraine. What's more, many of the guys we see there are directly participants in the venues, social rights organizations, movements aimed at democratizing Ukraine, more than that, to set the values that we need today, especially the patriotism of Ukraine. Therefore, I fully propose to support this draft decision in order to support and give hope to all Ukrainian youth that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will also support Ukrainian youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u357	Thank you. Please, Yemeni National Deputy, People's Front, Leonid Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u358	Leonid Jemetz, People's Front, the constituency is the city of Kiev. Dear Lilia Mikhailovna, since I've already pressed the pros button, I've already expressed my support for your proposal. I just want to point out that the support of Ukrainian youth, Ukrainian scientists at the expense of the state, is extremely important in our difficult times, because it will motivate them to do further work, and I want to thank you for the work they've done. And I ask the entire Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament to support your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u359	Thank you. "The Opposition Block." Paul, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u360	Please give the floor to the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u361	Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u362	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block supports in principle the support of young scientists, our talented, talented future. We have serious comments about the pedagogical decree. The committee drew attention to the administrations of Kiev, Donetské, Lugansk, Poltavsk, Kharkiv, Cherkaske and Cherniewsk district councils, where representatives of the new coalition were already working, because they had submitted documents in a timely manner. Let's think about it, we want to reward those people today -- teachers and teachers. Why are they here before the timely submission of documents? It seems to us that this is a wrong approach and a tendency, so that's what we're asking you to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u363	Let me answer that, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! At the time that this ruling was voted on the committee, the appropriate deadlines for submitting nominations were clearly set for the district councils, and they really did not provide the documents at the right time. But there is no reason why other people who have received timely documents should not receive an appropriate bonus. If we postpone this decision now, it means that 20 persons are now defined in the decree (teachers, teachers, teachers, who are there) They won't get that bonus. And notice the time when this was to be done. At the time, the district councils did not work. In 2015, the new district councils that started working will be able to re-submit candidates for the prize. Please don't hold back because of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u364	Thank you. Please, Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. It's a motive. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u365	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I address you and address the entire hall. We will now vote on this resolution, but tomorrow we can vote on that decision, which will not be followed by such decrees. More cuts in the budget next year than cuts in Ukrainian science are neither branch nor sphere. Friends, and on all committees, let us work together. The best investment is investing in human capital, don't we understand that? The Supreme Council is always wise. Don't let it get to education, science! No one will be awarded a prize tomorrow. How many young experts, young scientists, have left the country!? There will be no one left after this budget. So in support of these decisions, please note, everyone, my friends, the greatest losses will be education, science in the budget next year, if we allow it. Don't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u366	Thank you. Vote. A word, please. Jurinac, please, National Deputy Jurinec. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u367	Oksana Jurinec, Peter Dusty's Block. I call on all conscious people to support any educational initiative. Support what is most important to our country today. All the factions of conscious people, as the head of the Council of Young Scientists of former Lviv Politicians, I can tell you that these people have changed the country this year and will change it in the coming years, if we look at them. Only supporting all educational programs in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u368	Thank you, thank you. I think we're the only ones here. With your permission, I'm putting to the vote the registration number Order 1339 -- on the basis and overall, as reported by the chairman of the committee, Honourable Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich. Please vote. 1339. [[16:05:01]] For 285 Decision taken. Next, please. Draft Decision (registration number 1341), draft Decision on the appointment of named scholarships in 2014. Please put to the vote, please identify yourself. On the basis and in general, at the suggestion of a profile committee. On the basis and in general. [[16:05:32]] For 296 Decision taken. Registration number Order 1342. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and support yourself. [[16:05:58]] For 290 Decision taken. Thank you, Lilia Mikhailovna. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the draft Decree 1323, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports is being considered. Chamber Artur Leonidovich, please. I also propose a reduced procedure. Is it accepted? Don't you have to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u369	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports received 17 proposals for the 2014 Supreme Council Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self - government. From district councils and all - Ukrainian youth social organizations. The Supreme Council Award was established in 2003 and is awarded annually. The prize is awarded to individuals under 35 years of age who have a cash share of 500 untaxed minimum, or 8 thousand, 500 dollars. During the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call, the committee twice considered the matter with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine. Regrettably, the decree did not find support in that parliament. The Committee, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call of Alexander Turkinov, finalized the draft decree. On the second, I placed it in the session room, but in connection with the closing of the seventh call session, it was not possible to consider it. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government (No. 840-14 of 22 May 2003), the Committee has selected ten candidates from various areas for the award of the prize, including the deputies of local councils, local activists, ATO participants and Majdan activists. Candidates for the award achieved significant results in the formation and development of the youth movement in Ukraine, made personal contributions to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government in the respective regions of the country. They were involved in drafting drafts. The names and names of the organizations are all given to you. The adoption of a draft decision will be a fine incentive fact, both morally and materially, for all young professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u370	Let me finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u371	Those who want to work for the benefit of our state. Dear colleagues, please accept this decision as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u372	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need for two, two, against? Vote? None. I then, at the suggestion of the committee, place the vote on the basis and the whole of the Bill (registration number 1323), the adoption as a basis, and generally, on the proposal of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports. Please vote. [[16:09:22]] For 267 Decision taken. For us to vote with you for the rest of our lives, I mean the majority. For all decisions to be so incontrovertible. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's okay, it's been a hot day. Dear colleagues, I would just like to make some changes to the calendar plan. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Paul Pinzenick's First Deputy Chairman of the Regulatory Committee. He's going to announce everything now, and we're going to make some changes and we're going to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u373	Dear colleagues, you have been given a draft of the Supreme Council Regulation (registration No. 1582). The need for changes to the calendar plan for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is caused by the fact that, firstly, at the suggestion of the Conciliation Board of Deputies and factions, it is proposed not to take a break between the first and second sessions, to complete the first session on February 3rd and at the same time, on the same day, to start the second session. And secondly, you and I have just adopted changes in the procedure for the review of the State Budget of Ukraine, predicting its adoption in the 30th of the current month. So what's proposed. December 2014 – January 2015: December 24, 2015 – work on committees, commissions, factions and groups, i.e. tomorrow; December 30 – plenary session to decide on Ukraine’s State budget for 2015; January 16 – "hour of questions to the government", plenary session; week 19 to 23 – work on committees, commissions, factions, groups; week 26 to 30 January – work with voters. The first session of the Supreme Council on the eighth occasion was not to end on January 16, 2015, but on February 3, 2015, on the opening day of the second session. It is also suggested that the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be convened as necessary by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the event of the convening of a plenary meeting, immediately, over the period of time, with information on the time and venue of the meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u374	Thank you. Paul Vasilovich, the question. On the 25th, we're working a regular plenary day. The 26th is also a regular plenary day. And as for Saturday, the 27th, and Sunday, the 28th, we have to work too?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u375	In line with Yuri Vitaliovich’s proposal, we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u376	No, Yuri Vitaliyovich, finish the 30th. But to finish the 30th, we have to work all these days, we don't have to rest. And this is fundamentally important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u377	There is an opportunity to predict on Saturday and Sunday, December 27-28, work on committees, factions, if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-23-m0.u378	I'd like to propose to work on the committees on Saturday and a plenary meeting on Sunday. We have to work, dear colleagues, and this is a matter of principle. Or a plenary meeting on Saturday and a plenary meeting on Sunday. [[B in m in s a l in]] What do you mean, honorable national MPs? [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, some say, yes, others say no. Okay. Yeah, let's hear it again. So the 25th, the Thursday, the full plenary session; the 26th (under the Rules), the Friday, the plenary meeting, too. Saturday 27th, what are we doing? The committees. 28th Sunday, what are we doing? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, of course. So let's put it to a vote now. Let's be clear. So, on the 27th, Saturday, on the committees, everyone agrees? Well, that's right. And on the 28th, on the order of arrival, I'm offering a sessionary plenary job. I'll put it to a vote. And if he doesn't get most of the votes, then it's going to be committee work. Please, in session mode, Sunday. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. Sunday in plenary mode. [[16:13:44]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Once again, many deputies did not vote. I'm betting on the vote: Sunday is a plenary meeting, colleagues, and Saturday is on the committees. Please vote, Your Honor, don't relax. There's nothing to relax. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:14:17]] For 247 247. That means Saturday, the committees, Sunday, the plenary. That's a good plan. If we can look ahead to Tuesday, there will be no objection. Thank you, Pavel Vasilovich. Next, dear colleagues. In general, with these changes and additions in general, I put to the vote the Calendar Plan as a whole with the changes and additions that we have just voted with you. Please vote, fellow nationals. In general, I ask you to vote. [[16:15:01]] For 252 Decision taken. Next, respected colleagues, which is very important. I would like literally five more minutes to focus on. Five minutes. Tomorrow and today, by the way, it's 16:15. We've exhausted the issue of the day's order, and today you can totally calmly gather committees and start looking at all the issues if you have to work as hard as you need. Tomorrow Wednesday, we don't have a plenary meeting, there's gonna be work on the committees. I ask you very much, and this is of fundamental importance, please gather committees, send work to the committees, invite officials, they are ready for each article to be checked with you and we have something to discuss on Thursday at the plenary meeting, as well as Friday. I would ask the heads of factions, all of them, whether coalition or not, to organize this work. I'd like to ask the committee heads to organize this work. I'm at your service, please. All that's needed to ensure this activity is that I'm willing to do it. So the morning session is over today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m. Thank you, dear fellows. Thank you.
