ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, please sit in your seats, prepare for registration. Traditionally, I inform you that today is the birthday of the National Deputies: the Kurpil of Stéphane Volodymirovich and Stadnichuk Roman Vasilovich. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, and messages to the national deputies. But before that, dear fellows, I'm asking the National MPs to register. Please register. [[10:11:26]] There are 328 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Now, with the procedure, your honor, I'm asking you to sign up for the national MPs, and the national MP, Kaida, wants to say a few words on procedural matters. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u2	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Supreme Council voted in favour of the removal of the Levchenk MP for three plenary sessions. This person is now in the session room. If he liked it yesterday, as Freedom simply carried him out, we can now repeat this moment. In addition, yesterday it appeared on the FSB media, including Lifenews, that Simonenko said that there were thousands of Ukrainians killed on our side in Ukraine because there were bodies being killed in the ATO zone. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, Freedom faction requires that we put Simonek to the vote and remove him from the session room. Please put to the vote for this false anti-Ukrainian information. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! I inform you that, as I promised, yesterday I signed a law amending the Rules. They contacted the President and the President signed the whole law last night as well. Tomorrow morning it will be published in the Voice of Ukraine, that is, it will enter into force and I will perform a historic mission -- an announcement that the Communist faction will cease. The time has been left to suffer this faction. That's the first one. With regard to the removal of deputies from the hall. I had a delegation yesterday from the opposition. I also asked the secretariat of the Supreme Council to provide an analysis of regulatory positions. We do have problems in the Rules according to which, on the one hand, there is article 53, which speaks of the removal of those present in the Hall. The secretariat says it's not the MPs, it's the invited guests, it's 150 votes. And there is article 51, paragraph 5, which speaks of the need for 226 votes to be removed from the hall. Therefore, in view of the fact that there are two such positions in the Rules, I am directing the Standing Committee to meet immediately in order to reach an official conclusion on this position. After that, we will be able to make decisions with you, dear colleagues. I would ask the Regulatory Committee to address this issue immediately, to form this protocol as an assignment. Now, dear fellows, I ask you to proceed to the speeches of the National Deputies. First of all, the people's representative, Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I want to address all Ukrainian citizens from this rostrum of the Supreme Council. The government has now, according to the International Monetary Fund, prepared a series of legislative acts that, on the one hand, completely eliminates all social bills that have been passed in the last 10 years by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All the achievements of all previous parliaments, when parliaments decided on the prestige of teaching work and introduced an allowance for teachers and teachers of schools, 20 percent, now this decision has been taken and cancelled. The government has taken a decision and amended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine more than 30 social laws, including by cancelling for teachers the allowance for checking notebooks, for classroom guidance and other programming positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u5	I ask you to calm down, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u6	The government also made decisions that raised municipal tariffs from 50 percent to 70 percent. In some cities, the cost of water has grown.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u8	105 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u9	A break of 15 minutes is announced. Please calm down and take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I ask everyone to calm down and take their seats. Dear National Deputies! I ask the heads of factions and MPs to help calm the national MPs so that we do not disrupt today's session. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. I beg of you, dear fellows, let us put an end to our emotions. Please, please. Dear colleagues, please sit down. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! Please, I ask that we continue our work in Parliament. Dear colleagues, may we continue our work? We can, yeah. Please, let's get back to work. Please. Please ask Deputy Rudzkowski to set the timer to zero so he can start his speech first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing you, let's express our position from the Supreme Council's rostrum. Each faction has signed up, has its own national deputy, goes to the rostrum, and expresses its position. I want to go back to what I said before. You can't cheat on the government for war. We all understand that there's an economic crisis, that we have a problem, that the economy is going down. But we can't have all the social laws that have been passed over the past 10 years, and according to the Constitution we can't lower the social security of citizens, we can't cancel the one law that is now proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council on Thursday. I'm addressing you, distinguished fellow national MPs. In its time, the government passed a bill to overcome the economic disaster that the state had experienced. Once again, it was suggested that the budget should be reduced and that the social programs that worked before it should be eliminated. With regard to financial assistance after the birth of a child, other social programs. If you look at how this law worked, how did the increase in municipal tariffs work by 60 percent, you can say one thing. We are overcoming the economic crisis at the expense of the poorest. Taxes were not raised for high corporations, taxes were not raised for people with high financial income. I think, Alexander Valentine's Day, today is the time when we have to increase taxes for big business to 35 percent for corporations. We have to make a progressive scale of taxation, starting at 500,000 dollars and above, up to 75 percent. So did the socialists in France. And now the economy is growing there. Each person will receive the social assistance that the law requires him to take into account. I think we should go back to building a socially just state, taking into account people's positions. We should not all be driven into poverty, we must provide enough for all. And we're ready in the Supreme Council to work on this and improve the laws, not eliminate what.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u11	National Deputy Gordienko. I said National Deputy Gordienko. I don't see the National Deputy Gordian. Please, Tomenko, a national MP. Please take your seats. He'll be a Gordien, he'll be able to pass on the word whenever he wants. Please take your seat. I beg you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, let's get out of here. Because Gordienko is not in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that today's events also reaffirm the fact that today's composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, at least, a third of the people who serve Russia and Putin and support the ideas of separatists, do not have the right to exist. So, I think tomorrow we have to put a dot on the question of temporary parliamentary elections and do everything we can to ensure that Simonenko, his faction, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the MP group of Peace for Terrorists and Stability for Putin, acts in accordance with the general principle: the suitcase, the station, Putin. You want to protect Putin, move to his country and protect him, and there must be people in parliament who protect Ukraine and its national interests. Another call I made to our generals and colonels. I know that we have the most numerous army, mostly, unfortunately, of a comforting generality. Today, after we have approved the Order on Partial Mobilization, my request to you, you have a unique opportunity to confirm the status of generals, colonels and officers. Young people should be in the East only on voluntary grounds. And the tens and hundreds of thousands of officers who have hanged themselves with medals have a unique opportunity to confirm their status as officers and generals of the tax office, the prosecutor’s office, customs, and all other structures. My next call to the people of the East. You came to the Supreme Council yesterday, to the President's Administration, to make sure we didn't kill peaceful people. I have a question to you, why Kiev, Central Ukraine and Western Ukraine protect you from cadavers and travelers, feed you and shelter you here, you are unable to form any military unit to protect your business and your area. Well, isn't the whole country supposed to be protecting the East today, and you're supposed to be taking care of the President's Administration and asking that something's going on? Show that you're Ukrainian, that you're Ukrainian citizens and that you're protecting yourself from Chechens, cabardines, and Russians of your country. And then we'll all be together, and we'll prove to the Ukrainians that no one can take over our territory. And my last appeal to Maidan. Friends, yesterday’s survey published, 90 percent of the Chinese ask you not to disgrace the holy name of Maidan. He who has strength and courage, take up arms. Whoever has the opportunity to work, fight corruption. Give Kiev the opportunity to breathe, to live, and to work in their place. Do not be ashamed of what has been created for months as the pride of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u13	Thank you. People's Deputy Twin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u14	I'm asking you to pass on the word, Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u15	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u16	Dear Sir, dear colleagues, there is a time for women in Ukraine, because men want to fight, women want to make peace. So from this parliamentary action, I'm announcing a global action: "The Ukraines of the world for peace and independence of Ukraine." We are the Ukraines of the world on home land and on all continents of land we are launching an international action of mothers, sisters, daughters, Ukrainian wives, Ukraine's world, Ukraine's countries for peace and independence. We call on the leaders of Ukraine's security and independence countries to do everything they can to restore peace in our country. We advocate an immediate ceasefire, bloodshed, aggression, and demand a peaceful settlement. We are addressing the Presidents of all the security and territorial integrity of Ukraine, including the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, to make every effort for a peaceful settlement in Ukraine. We emphasize that we will not allow further escalation of the conflict in Ukraine, further provocations against our nation, the deaths of our warriors, our sons, men, brothers and relatives. The Ukrainians of the world say no to any form of separatism, terrorism and aggression against Ukraine. We call on every Ukraine, regardless of where it resides, to put its signature under this appeal and to give a convincing voice for peace in Ukraine. Millions of signatures under this appeal will be another compelling argument for the strong world of this one, as a powerful expression of the will of mothers, sisters, wives, daughters, and Ukrainians around the world. And I'm on this parliamentary rostrum signing this address, and I'm urging women to join it. And I apologize to the woman who was banished from this parliamentary rostrum on behalf of all the deputies, because this is the first time in the parliament of an independent Ukraine a woman has been banished from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u17	People's Deputy Boyarsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Schuffritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u19	Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u20	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to make a statement in my statement to the majority that today is forming power in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have in my hand a vote of 20 February on the decree, the historic decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ceasefire: 236 votes in favour, of which 35 votes were cast by the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. The Ukrainian National Deputies who then voted, and are now members, part of these deputies, and are now members of the faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Both I and Novinski and many others understood the consequences of this vote. But in Kiev, people were killed, and conditions were unacceptable and misunderstood, because you and I were then determined that the greatest value is human life and we voted for it. On June 23, when the truce was declared, I looked forward to accepting the situation, believing that after the truce, we would be able to start a dialogue and end it with peace, peace in Ukraine alone, with the preservation of the territorial integrity of our country. Was that possible? I've been in the ATO zone nine times in the last half-months and I can tell you, that was the possibility, and I believe it is now. What do we have after February 1st, after the restoration of the active phase of the ATO? Military casualties are three times greater than those of previous ATOs. And the main thing that's most unacceptable to me, as to each of you, is that it's that peaceful people are dying and we have to stop it, and we have an opportunity to do that. Yesterday’s Law on the Approval of the Mobilization Order shows that, unfortunately, the President of Ukraine decided to go along with military opposition rather than with the peace that millions of people were waiting for him, who voted for peace in Ukraine. And today we are to be warned by the Red Cross’s assessment as the main one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u21	Please finish the speech for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u22	As the chief expert for the United Nations, who identifies the facts of war in certain areas. And as the media said yesterday, it was the Red Cross that defined the situation in Ukraine as a war and notified the official structures. We must now gather and discuss what is happening in the country and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, fellow Members of the People's Party, Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u24	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Our group decided to meet with the mothers of the 95th Airborne Brigade, which is involved in an anti-terrorist operation. They wonder, then, why is it that so far, to participate in the ATO, the unmobilized national deputies of the age of recruitment, as well as their sons of the age of conscription? They don't understand why we, the servants of the people, wipe our pants here in Kiev, and their sons at this time should perish there in the East? As long as the mothers of the military are ready to talk to us, we need to listen to them. They do not demand the impossible; they simply want their sons to be provided with armor and helmets, medicine, and hot food on time. They were already disgusted with the stories of the looting of money gathered for the needs of the army. They demand a report and insist on tight financial controls, and they prefer to see money stolen from behind bars. They're asking for a replacement, a replacement for the fighters that have been in the fighting zone since the start of the operation. At the same time, it's required to prohibit the replacement of young people 18-19 years old. They point to the need to provide military personnel with secure means of communication, since today our boys are being overheard and are getting to know their future location. Mothers of our military are tired of hearing reports of disagreements between the different formations of ATOs. They ask for a mechanism for such cooperation. There's no fear in the eyes of a soldier's mother, they promise to wipe us all out, if we don't cover up the oxygen terrorists who come to them in the form of weapons and finances, and if we don't listen to their souls scream, we'll burn in hell. At 15 o'clock today, the Economic Development Group's initiative will hold parliamentary hearings on the subject of our country's security in all its aspects. We ask the deputies, all the deputies, the concerned deputies to take an active part in these hearings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u25	National MP Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u26	Please give the word to the head of the faction Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u27	Please, Sergio Soboljeva on the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The European choice was what started the Europharmaceutical. The European choice is what millions of Ukrainians demanded, dying on the ground and defending their dignity. The European choice is what has been signed by the higher leadership of the state and should be implemented today. That's why the Fatherland faction requires immediate ratification into Parliament of the Association Agreement with the European Union, the deal for which the Ukrainians made their choice back in 1990, for which the Ukrainians made their choice on hundreds of pitches throughout Ukraine, for which hundreds of thousands of our fighters today, hundreds of thousands of volunteers defend Ukraine's independence from the aggressor Russia. That is why our faction calls on the President of Ukraine to make an immediate proposal: to ratify the Association Agreement with the European Union in Parliament. This is the agreement that will really make this room the necessary unity of all those who understand that the European values of the fight for economic reform, the European values of the fight against corruption are what millions of Ukrainians require, and that is what the Ukrainian Parliament supports. That is why this question is urgent, and our faction invites us to consider it immediately in the session room. For ratifying the European Charter! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, you have one more minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u30	I would like to inform the audience that yesterday, the Committee on European Integration unanimously, with the exception of a representative of the Communist Party, supported the draft Order requesting the President of Ukraine to submit an Association Agreement to the Supreme Council by 12 August at the latest. This will then allow us to ratify this agreement and stop talking about seemingly technical, political or any other argument that cannot be ratified. Why Has Moldova Ratified? Why was the treaty ratified in Georgia? Why did Romania, Latvia and Lithuania, the countries of the European Union ratify the agreement? Why are they now starting to use as economic arguments a file that prepared the Januković Ministry of Economics in 2013, with arguments why there is no need to sign the agreement? Why we are urged to ratify the Treaty quickly by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, the People’s Deputy Deputy of Trees gives his word to the national deputy Nemira. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u32	I want an argument to address these seemingly obstacles that prevent ratification. The first, technically, argument that the reconciliation in ministries and departments has not yet been completed. Yesterday, officially at the committee meeting and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirmed that the technical package for ratification was fully ready. Secondly, it seems that the three-way political consultations between the Russian Federation, the European Union and Ukraine are hampered by the fact that the second round of these consultations is scheduled for September 12th and it seems that this Agreement cannot be ratified. Those who make this argument are actually pleading for the recognition of the veto by a third country, particularly the Russian Federation, of the sovereign choice of civilisation in Ukraine. This can't be allowed, this can't be an argument. And finally, it seems that among the member countries of the European Union there are those who would not want such ratification. You know, I can say here, the European Union -- all 28 countries have signed this Agreement. This Agreement was signed on behalf of the Council of the European Union, President of the Council of the European Union. Anyone who is now trying to bring political responsibility to the leaders of individual member states of the European Union is practically seeking to conceal his own political irresponsibility. So I am absolutely convinced, there is no technical, economic, external political argument to not make an urgent, immediate, urgent, no later than August 12th this treaty for ratification. I am convinced that we should vote today on the ruling that I supported yesterday at the appointment of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, and I have considered and supported the Committee on European Integration in order to enable the President to encourage him to make this agreement for ratification immediately. And I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to raise more than 300 votes, that's the best answer, the best anti-terror operation. This is exactly what Putin wanted from the beginning of an unprovoked aggression against Ukraine. And by ratifying this agreement, we will give a clear answer: Neither by force nor by any manipulation can the Ukrainian people be broken. It's a civilisational choice of Ukraine, which is why they put the lives of the stage hero, which is supported by all the Ukrainians who understand what the European future is. So our own responsibility, we urge the President to show his own responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u33	National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u34	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Sir, your head. Mr. Deputies. Brothers and sisters in Ukraine. I want to inform you today about the trip we made on July 16th. We are Ukrainian parliamentarians, Polish parliamentarians, Ukrainian defenders, about the liberation of the Savachenko Hope, which is currently illegal in the Vronezian Union. Of course, when we arrived at the station, no one let us in, we pulled our Ukrainian strings, and immediately we received a meeting with the deputy head of the S.I.S.O., who told us that we couldn't meet Nadia Savchenko, because he was meeting with Nadia Savchenko the Consulate General of Ukraine a day ago. After that, we expected lawyers who had spent three hours at Hope Savchenko. When the lawyers came out, they brought Hope Savchenko's appeal to the Russian Federation law enforcement committee for illegal kidnapping and smuggling across the Ukrainian-Russian border of Hope Savchenko to break the criminal case for that fact. Then the lawyers referred to the Consul - General of Nadia Savchenko, where she specifically wrote, how she was kidnapped, how her five cars were transported and handed over to Russian law enforcement authorities and Russian special forces in handcuffs with a black sheet on their head. Also during the transport, there was an attempt to recruit Nadia Savchenko as a terrorist man who introduced a former Ukrainian officer who was also in captivity and offered to cooperate with the law enforcement agencies of the Russian Federation of the Savachenko Hope. At least he says you'll save your life. What Hope Savchenko specifically said is that it is better to die in Ukraine than to live in Russia. The next day we met in a representative of the European Union as deputy leader of Sven-Olov Karlson, who promised us that he would send a letter of support to the Savechenko Hope, he would also meet with the leadership of the Russian Federation on the illegal detention of the Savechenko Hope, as well as Ukrainian prisoner Oleg Sentsov and the boys who are also not legally in the Russian PIC. We're Ukrainian parliamentarians, we have everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u35	Let me finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u36	We Ukrainian parliamentarians have to do everything to ensure that we don't have any prisoners in the Russian Federation today, and we will have to deliver them. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u37	National MP Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u38	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy Shipko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u40	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovsk district, 35th constituency, Nicopol city, Ordjonikidze district, Nicopolsk district. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I've just returned from Dnipropetrovska, and as you know, this is one of the areas where first and primary medical care is provided to our defenders injured in the ATO zone. The Mechnikov District Hospital and the military hospital accept the most difficult incidents of combat injuries. For our fighters, doctors do everything they can, often not even possible, to save their lives, to relieve physical pain, and to restore their health. One injured soldier I was associating with confidently said that he would return to the battlefield immediately after recovery. After all, patriotism, unity, mutual support, and an elevated spirit help to heal wounds. Hospitals in Dniproperty now have all the necessary medicines, but it is simply impossible to predict the need for a few days or weeks ahead. That's why we're building a medical reserve in hospitals, a task that should or should not be the most important. These are solutions used in blood loss, broad - spectrum antibiotics, and binding materials. Yes, I have already received a call from Ukrainian manufacturers to help the injured drug. I will not deliberately call them to avoid speculation. But thanks to these carefree people, Dniproperty Hospital received about a million and a half dollars in medical supplies just last week. And this week, another 18 million people are planning to put drugs in Kiev, Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, Odessa, Poltava, Winnitz, Lviv, right where they take the wounded. I want the country to know its heroes. And I ask the Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich, to reward the thanks of the farmers who help our fighters get back on their feet. Sincere hearts, nobles, and indifference make us extremely strong. Volunteers, donors who stand huge queues to give blood. Carefree people who wear clothes are also hospitalized. Pharmacists who provide drugs Our doctors and nurses. All together, they're just creating a new Ukrainian society right now. You've got a low crease! Only by uniting our efforts together in one way or another will we be able to win and gain a new quality of life for our Ukrainian people! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, last speech, National Deputy Kucheruk. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Kucheruk, would you please speak? People's MP Greenevich. Dear colleagues, I don't understand. Is there no one who wants to speak? National MP Greenevich gave the floor to Pavlovski. Please. He's Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u42	Passed it on to Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u43	Andrew Pavlovsky, National Deputy, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, fellow countrymen! In fact, there is a very difficult situation in the country, war in the country if you tell the truth. At the same time, we face important challenges. And I support what we first need to ratify the Agreement with the European Union. This led to the death of our boys in eastern Ukraine for the sake of our European path. At the same time, to resolve the issue of war, to finance it at the expense of the public service and the budget, is a government error. It can't be that the heads of the budgetary institutions, I read the changes to the state budget, are given the right without consent and the employees are warned to send them either on full-time or on leave unpaid without saving the salary for the term defined by the manager. Is that, like, two for three months? And we have several million budget holders in the country. The government needs to look for other sources, including the support of our army. Notice, I've talked to the government about this over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, these black holes are flowing billions of dollars out of the Ukrainian economy. Provide, along with this budget, the Law on the Taxation of Valuable Goods, and increase the rent for the use of natural fossils. Because they're priceless, these oligarchs get their profits, using our Ukrainian nadars for nothing. There are many other sources where money can be found to support the country’s security, not at the expense of the poorest population categories. I'm not voting for these budget changes myself! Better for the government to resign than to force Parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, one minute's representative of the President's Parliament, Ruslan Knazevitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u45	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, frankly, it was very strange to see the newly expressed position of one of the factions to the President of Ukraine, requiring the immediate ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union. I would like to remind you that this is the President who, during his inaugural speech from this rostrum, has officially addressed the representatives of the European Union to more than 10 countries that he requires the immediate signing of the association and, during his first visit to Brussels, has forced the position of even those who have doubts at the last moment to change in favour of the signing and proper implementation of this agreement. At the same time, taking into account internal procedures, the President officially asked the Government to immediately bring to the President a package of necessary and agreed with the European Union in order to formally and in accordance with the Constitution to submit it to Parliament with further ratification. Until now, however, such a package had not come from the government to the President of Ukraine. Moreover, there has recently been an official position of the government that, along with the ratification package, the government is preparing a national implementation plan for the agreement. And he proposes, along with the ratification package, that the President bring the implementation package to Parliament. Until that kind of document came in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u46	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u47	The transfer of responsibility to the President is, to put it mildly, invalid and, I would say, simply not solid in this room. I understand that the electoral campaign has begun in fact, and here we can understand the national MPs. But it is not necessary to translate what is not translated with a sick head into a healthy head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, we have concluded with you the speeches of the National Deputies according to the Rules of Time. And now let's move into the order of the day of our session. I'd like to invite the deputies to the session room. Please. And I ask that you and I include in the agenda a bill. Now. As for the break, I understand. Let's put it in order and I'll call it a day. Colleagues, one brief question that we need to vote on, it's about treating and rehabilitating our wounded fighters during an anti-terror operation. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sit in my workplace. Colleagues, please, this is the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine (as regards the provision of medical supplies, technical and other means of rehabilitation for the victims of the anti-terrorist operation). I ask for one minute to give the people's deputy Suškević an explanation of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I was approached yesterday by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy and our fighters who are in hospitals and hospitals without hands, without legs, with their backs broken, with eyes blind. These people, who, in protecting their homeland, suffered and gave away the most precious things they had, both life and health. I'm asking you to help these people. As far as they are concerned, there are no laws that apply to people with disabilities. Just to provide them with means of rehabilitation, prosthetics, treatments, medical supplies before they're defined by the disabled, and that's a time, it's a procedure, it's a load on family and loved ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u50	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u51	I ask you to support this bill regarding its inclusion in the agenda. And, Alexander Valentinovich, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Social Policy are asking us to adopt this law today as a basis and as a whole. He agrees with the government today. He has a positive conclusion today from the Science and Experimental Authority. He is today accepted, supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. I ask you to vote it in the agenda and on the basis, and on the whole. Let us support those whom you can see in hospitals and hospitals today, come to them, support them, and see how difficult it is for them to get involved in the lives of healthy people today. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I think I understand the proposal made by the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons by Suskevitch Valeri Mikhailovich. And I ask you to invite all the deputies to the hall so that we can make responsible decisions. Please, dear fellows. Colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, please take your seats. And I propose the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine on the provision of medical supplies, technical and other means of rehabilitation of participants, victims of an anti-terrorist operation. Dear colleagues, registration number 4331. Colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, please. Colleagues, pay attention! National MP Lazko, please, an important question. Please, we vote inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:01:10]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we take it as a basis as a whole? We can. Please support this project as a whole. Please vote. [[11:01:34]] For 207 Yeah, it's not a "for" decision, it's 207 votes. The factions, please. 66 – "Fatherhood", region – 3, "BRA" – 31, 27 – "Economic development", 35 – "Freedom", 24 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 0 – "For Peace and Stability", KPU – 0, non-fractional - 21. Please turn on the microphone to the head of the profile committee of Suškevitch Valeri Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u53	Dear friends, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, I ask now if there are suggestions from colleagues to add some editorial changes, listen and support. Friends, I ask you, people who are torn off their feet today, I emphasize, without arms, without legs, they are destitute, and today they are in a terrible state, I ask that the laws of Ukraine, social laws, rehabilitation laws, which unfortunately do not work today, the bill does not need any additional funds. Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to give your word and support all those who say more in this legislation and accept it in general today. People are waiting for our help, people who were protecting the Ukrainian state. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I see all hands to be able to speak. Let's give it a minute to those who raised their hands. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u55	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, we are now in very difficult conditions, the whole state is working, and this situation in the East requires us to make very quick decisions. Today, hundreds of our military personnel, hundreds of our boys who have suffered and have been disabled, cannot obtain prosthetics or crumbs, or wheelchairs simply because they need to go through a disability procedure. Our medical system, unfortunately, is so sorry for the Russianism, the "invertible" to pass the ICC takes two or three months. We need to immediately vote on this bill today, to support all our crippled boys so that today, at the conclusion of the appropriate medical institutions, they can quickly obtain both prosthetics and wheelchairs and crumbs. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to return to this question. The strike faction requires acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sekh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Irina Sekh. Only in Lviv, there are 100 wounded in the military hospital today, 5 of them serious. Part of them are young boys who want to live, who want to love, who want to live for their country and for their family. Need immediate prosthetics. The sooner we do this, the faster the positive process of their psychological rehabilitation is going to be, they're in serious psychological shock right now. This bill allows for the establishment of quality orthopedic prosthetic products without setting up a disability group for ATO participants. This will be done as quickly as possible. So I'm asking for support, let's not be like that in 1946-1959, Stalin did, took our veterans out without hands and legs to Solovka. We have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u58	I got the offer. Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u59	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! I don't think any deputy who's a well-known Ukrainian will raise his hand to not vote in favour of this law. It's the only offer. If anyone really has one warning that not all the categories that are involved in an anti-terror operation, like, for example, the Resistance, individual self-defense teams, are immediately offered to the head of the committee. If there are no such proposals, we should re-vote the issue. So if there is any proposal from one faction, let us hear it and immediately put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u60	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u61	Matvienkov, 57 district, Mariupol, faction of regions. Dear colleagues! It's really not a simple situation in the country today -- thousands of lives are broken, thousands of people are killed, hundreds of people are disabled. But we cannot divide the people of one country into categories. Among the people who remain disabled are not only those who participate in hostilities, but there are peaceful populations, civilians, and children who are suffering in this situation today. And today it would be sacrilegious to give some kind of benefit without noticing this category. You know, it's very painful and offensive to hear when the heart bleeds when the citizens of another state are killed. Yes, indeed, blood is shed in the heart, but no less is the blood shed when the citizens of our State are killed. We therefore insist that this law include a category: civilians affected by these actions. This time. And second moment. Alexander Valentinovich, well, you can't pretend nothing's going on in this room. This hall has been experiencing many moments. Please declare a recess and let us gather and talk about our future activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u62	Okay. Please, People's Deputies, it's been a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u63	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The deputy from the Matvienkov Region Party just said, "The peaceful citizens of our state are being killed." And the military are not the citizens of our state? And those who were killed by you in Mariupoli on May 9 are not citizens of our state? And those whom your terrorists are now killing and maiming in Lugansk, Donetsk, North London, Lysicánsk are not citizens of our state? These are all the citizens of our country that you, the regionals and the commies, have brought to the pen. You've called for war and your terrorists to our country. I advise you, Matvienkov, and go to the Kyiv Military Hospital, where one of those who suffered because of you, Jura Weselowski, 20 years old, a guy whose leg was torn out because of you. Neither you nor your children nor your hands, unfortunately, have broken off. And the young boys who die because of you on the front are injured every day. And you have no moral right not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, let's finish. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u65	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, time really requires quick decisions and, most importantly, non-standard decisions. And what the head of the committee, I would stress, the profile committee has once again made the right decision, we have to support it. And why? There's a lot of talk here about money. Please tell me, what does the state need to spend money on today? For the political challenges and technological schemes that are being developed to capture a conjunctural moment, one and a half billion should be given? Should the prosthetics be given? Should medical devices be given to those who are really fighting for Ukraine rather than trying to make their own policies technologically? Therefore, the bill must be voted in favour, and generally it must be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, there was an offer. Come on, we can make a decision now. Now, now, we're going to vote, and I'm going to give you a line, calm down! Dear colleagues, there was an offer, I think she's hearing. I will now give the floor to the committee's head to comment on it. And with the support of the committee, I think we should vote that, apart from our soldiers who were affected during the ATO, civilians who were affected during the anti-terror operation would also be disabled. I think it's right for us to make that decision. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u67	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for the very social and human position towards our people who have suffered during the fighting. I, as chairman of the committee, assure you that we will do the editorial work of my colleague Matvienkov, who has offered peace offerings, and we will accordingly include in the text of the law, which I very much hope will be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, I want to name another situation, Alexander Valentinovich. 28 years of Captain Jaroslav Mironov of the Armed Forces. His leg was torn off, and he said to the President of Ukraine, "I don't want to gain disability, because then I won't be taken into the army. I want to return to the active army." He asked me last week to take this procedure to gain military status and continue to fight as a man who protects Ukraine to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u68	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u69	So I want to tell you that this guy is really without this law, without the status of a disabled person, he's going to go out and pick up people, his family, and his loved ones to prostheticize him, treat him, and so on. We can't allow that, the more the many guys who have suffered without legs, they want to return to the army, they want to serve the Ukrainian state. I'm asking you to support me with the proposal that my colleagues made, we're going to work it out, we're going to support this law on the basis and in general. Support the Protectors of the Motherland! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's make a decision. I can see the hands. Colleagues, we can now agree that, given the very proposal that this law is spread to both our heroic soldiers and civilians who have suffered in the area of anti-terrorist operations. It was civilians, not militants, not separatists, but civilians who suffered during an antiterrorist operation. The only reason I accept this is because it's out of the voice, I'm protocolly ordering that a technical legal amendment take place in the drafting of the law. No objections? I won't. Please, taking into account this proposal, support Bill 43. Let's go back to it first so that the purity is already regulated. Please, let's go back to this law together. Please vote. [[11:13:24]] For 277 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, adopt Law 4331a as a basis and as a whole. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said with all the suggestions. [[11:13:46]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues. Let's look at the factions and see how anyone voted in favour of this law. 68 – Fatherland, 47 – Party of Regions, 37 – Impact, 32 – Economic Development, 35 – Freedom – 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – MS, IPU – 0 – non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, two factions have called for a break. All I ask is that, Valeriy Mikhailovich, we promptly put this law out, taking into account those amendments, so that it will literally be on my signature today. Dear colleagues, the line. It was called Matvienkov. Please include one minute to tell the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u71	Respectable disgruntled colleagues. You know, I'll be honest with you, this hall has seen a lot in its history. But here I am looking at the events that are happening here today, and I can say this: as long as inadequate people are making policies in our country, we will never live in peace, harmony and look to the future with confidence. Today we are talking about Europe, today we are talking about what we should aim for Europe and go boldly to Europe. So, I want to tell you my opinion: we're going to Europe in the 33rd year, when no one understands the disorientation, when no one perceives another's opinion that differs from anyone's opinion when it comes to usurpation, pressure and other things. We will never build a normal country with these moments. And this is what we need to draw conclusions from all of us, and first of all, Alexander Valentinović, to you as chairman, because such things need to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u72	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, two factions called for a break. Do you need an announcement or are you still insisting on a break? At the break. Okay. Dear colleagues. Then instead of a break, which will be at 12 o'clock, we'll announce a break until 12 o'clock. After that, Parliament will continue to work. Dear colleagues, please, until 12 o'clock. At 12 o'clock, the Supreme Council will resume its work. I ask the heads of the MPs and factions to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u73	Please sit down. The board of directors of factions, MPs, concluded. Please. We've lost a lot of time and we need to work hard right now so that this time that we have left to work, we can make the decisions that the Ukrainian people are waiting for. Dear colleagues! As long as the National Deputies are meeting, I ask you to make appropriate announcements to the Secretariat by inviting everyone to the session room. With regard to the rightness of the national MPs, there is a suggestion to vote now on the Ordinance establishing a temporary commission of inquiry that needs 150 votes, then proceed to the first reading of the drafts. As a result of the conversation. A more faithful break announced by the faction of the Party of Regions and the IPU is given to the national deputy of Shufresch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u74	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! We have discussed a very difficult question and thank you, Aleksandr Valentinović, for responding to our approach to the need to hold this meeting. We also discussed the situation in the hall. It was agreed that all actions in the Hall should take place only in accordance with the Rules Act. The Ukrainian national MP has the right to express his views and, if such a statement is considered inadmissible for sounding, the relevant decisions may be applied to such a national MP. But we also discussed another far more important question: how can we act in the face of the opposition that is taking place at Donbassa? I will not assess now whether it is an anti-terrorist operation or a military resistance, as many international experts have already estimated today. We must avoid external evaluation of what is happening in Ukraine. We must do everything together to stop the deaths of peaceful people in Ukraine, stop the deaths of our soldiers, stop the deaths of our citizens. We must find an opportunity to avoid further destruction of our citizens as soon as possible. My firm conviction, the conviction of my colleagues in the faction of the Party of the Regions. I am sure, many of you too, that we do not have any other way than to negotiate and establish peace in a united, holistic Ukraine. We must do so today, understanding all the responsibility that lies with each one of us, because today power has become the majority of us in this room. But this does not mean that the opposition will stand outside. Today, your political forces have decided on a single candidate for the Presidents, who has been elected as a guarantor of peace, we must ensure this world today. And for that, the whole country must unite. There's no other way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's now feel the voting room. And so let's look at the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission on the Enforcement of Legislation in the Field of State Settlement of Natural Monopolies in Neighbouring Markets on Energy, Gas, Heat and Water Supply. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I ask you to vote. [[12:39:38]] For-152. Procedural question, decision taken. Please, National Deputy Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u76	Honorary colleagues, a group of national deputies prepared a draft Supreme Council decision on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of compliance with legislation in the field of national regulation of natural monopolies and adjacent markets on energy, gas, heat and water supply. In view of the fact that the government has to adopt a decision that relates to tariffs in line with the actual costs of energy, gas, water supply and other companies, we have decided to analyze what is happening in these markets and how these tariffs are formed. We received analytical help from a number of previous ministers who regulated these issues, representatives of regulators, the public. And so far, you've come up with a proposal for a decision. We sent letters to factions. As of today, all the factions and groups have submitted their proposals, there remains the vacancy of the Economic Development Group (immediately to grant a person) and the vacancy of the Party of Regions. All other factions and groups authorized their representatives to work on this committee. There is a proposal to approve the composition of this commission, the actual plan of its work, and to listen to the report of the commission as soon as possible so that it can be settled and taken into account in the drafting of legislative acts and the work of the government, which are directly related to this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There's a need. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. National Deputy Momot, faction of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u78	Alexander Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, 27th constituency. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u79	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u80	Debenkov, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV broadcasters! I want to point out that the faction of the Party of the Regions does not support this decision. As a result, he does not propose to a suitable interim commission of inquiry, since he insists that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should still perform the functions entrusted to it by the Constitution of Ukraine, which is to carry out the main function of law. I don't think the current members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the people's deputies of Ukraine have the expertise to deal with violations of legislation that may exist in the markets of natural monopolies and adjacent markets in energy-, gas-, heat- and water supply. I would like to point out that we have the appropriate competent authorities of the State, the relevant national commissions that carry out national regulations, exercise State control in the areas of natural monopolies and have relevant experts. Nothing prevents them from carrying out appropriate checks, nor does it prohibit them from preparing appropriate draft regulations on the formation of objective and marketable tariffs for heating, water supply, centralized water supply of cold and hot water. So to take over the Supreme Council of Ukraine with such functions, I think, is useless. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions will not take part in the vote and recommend its candidate to this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u81	Please, National Deputy Furman, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u83	Please, Ruslan Marcinkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u84	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Our faction will certainly support this decision, because today we see how most of these enterprises are in the hands of the oligarchi business. And today we're reporting a significant increase in heat tariffs, which is about 40 percent across Ukraine today going up from 10 percent to 40 percent for electricity, from 60 percent to 80 percent for water. And so today, Parliament, the Supreme Council, as the highest legislative body, has to control the oligarchs and talk about the mistakes that are being made today in calculating these tariffs. Today, Ukrainians are not supposed to pay the ocharchs chinsch, and then these oligarchs provide a large service and provide a small amount of money that seems to be safe. And in fact, we Ukrainians are today paying bills for water, for heat, for electricity, today we're actually dating these oligarchs, and today they're raising tariffs, and they're greatly affecting the activity of Ukrainian society. I would also like to point out that the work of this permanent temporary commission should lead to real tariffs, to tariffs that will be economically justified, and not to the fact that the oligarchs today finance the teams at the expense of the olenergo. The fact that oligarchs today abuse thousands of Ukrainians by issuing technical conditions, such as the oblenergo, and so forth. Thus, such a temporary commission of inquiry should function. And it has to make concrete decisions to get rid of these monopolies, the powers they shouldn't have. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u85	People's MP Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u86	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And I want to say first of all to my colleagues from the Party of Regions that, apart from the legislative function that is laid down in the Constitution on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is no less important function in the Supreme Council of Ukraine than the control function. The control function is the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to say that someone likes it or doesn't like it, but the residents of cities, villages, villages, who get the right services, they're asking us, Ukrainian national deputies, to figure out how it turns out that housing and utility prices are rising year after year, and the quality of these services is getting worse. Every year, every month, these huge costs that our population pays conscientiously for these services go to. Where these costs go, if we see them, they're once again proposing to the government that Naftogaz is one more time, it turns out to be a bankruptcy. Therefore, we are obliged to answer, including our fellow citizens, as is the case in our country, but this is on the one hand. On the other hand, we also have a question to the government on this issue. Yes, the government must control these matters. Why is this not done? Why there is no transparent tariffing is also a question to be examined by the commission. So the impact faction will definitely support the defined draft decision, we'll deal with the tariff situation in this. The only thing I would definitely want.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u87	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u88	I'd like to say that this commission works professionally and without any undue poir effect on this issue. We need, in this case, not a pianist, not a self-piar of individual politicians, individual factions, but we need a concrete result that our electorate, our fellow citizens, will first see. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u89	This is the final speech, National Deputy Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u90	Thank you. Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. According to current legislation, Ukrainian national MPs have two functions: the first is legislative, the second is controlling. The creation of temporary commissions of inquiry is the general practice of any parliament that deals with one or the other agenda issues, as every national MP or faction thinks. If someone doubts the competence of the deputies who are part of the commission of inquiry, the commission of inquiry may, according to its rules, involve any experts and experts who will be involved in the analysis of what is going on. I'd like to remind you that we're going to have an increase in utility payments, there's going to be an increase now, there's going to be an increase in the fall, and there's going to be a price for the monopolies that are serving the population today -- it's just a sacred duty for Parliament. For example, in Kiev today, let's say Kievenergo is not counted with Naftogaz.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u91	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u92	The reason? Kiev pays more in percent, up to 90 percent of the population pays for utilities, but half of Kiev today does not have hot water. There's a tendency, because all of Kiev will run out of hot water next month. So we need to take a look at this, and that's why a commission of inquiry is being created. I call upon all factions, all deputies, to take this matter seriously and to support the establishment of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, all those who have been enrolled, have had the opportunity to speak. I ask now for a vote on the support of the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on verification and enforcement of legislation in the field of national regulation of natural monopolies and adjacent markets on energy, gas, heat and water supply. The registration number, I'll remind you, is 4058a. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. Please vote. [[12:50:53]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Parliament is working on the border. By factions, please, "Fatherhood" – 56, Party of Regions – 2, "FATHER" – 32, "Economic Development" – 1, "Freedom" – 35, "North European Ukraine" – 14, "For Peace and Stability" – 0, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 10. Dear colleagues, let us turn to questions that are united by being accepted in the first reading. I ask the Supreme Council to support the proposal so that we can get the maximum amount of consideration for these proposals from the national MPs, including the government. Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with these issues in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please vote. [[12:51:56]] For-142 Decision taken. This means that we will now consider one question for the rest of our time. So, colleagues, I'm back, Jaroslav, let's help you work. Colleagues, can we take another look at this? I beg you to wake up a little from the thoughts that distract you from your work in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposal to consider legislative acts in the first reading on a simplified procedure. Catherine Timofievno, let's go to the polls. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:53:00]] For-147 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm the only one I'm asking, means every question we're going to consider, and I'm not going to put this question to the vote right now. Because we're running out of time for this. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the fight against terrorism (registration number 4912) is under consideration. Please, National Deputy Pavelenko Rostislava Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u94	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, have understood the importance of such a bill, given what is currently taking place in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, the bill proposes to resolve three fundamental issues and this is what we ask for support from the Hall. The first question is to define more clearly than is in current legislation, and to justify the responsibility of the tools of terrorism, i.e. those who hinder the fight against terrorism by their actions, or who give support to terrorists. In fact, we all know of cases where local officials have contributed to the activities of terrorists and in many ways because of their position — actions or omissions have been admitted to the situation that is now. We know when people, ordinary people, who are either being lied to, or bribed, go to work with terrorists to understand that there is a measure of responsibility for these actions. And so it's proposed to make changes and make sure that every citizen understands that cooperation with terrorists will have consequences and that they won't take part. The second major cluster of issues in this bill is the issue of information security in the anti-terrorist area, the issue of guaranteeing conditions for journalists, the safety of journalists, media agents in the counter-terrorist area, and, on the other hand, the ability for officials to effectively resist information provocations, the actions of people who pretend to be journalists, but actually support terrorists, people who participate in totally wild cases, as we know from media reports, when terrorists can kill people, then not allow bodies to be removed because of Russian channels and footage. These issues must be settled and those responsible in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation should be empowered to regulate how information and media activities will be carried out. And the third question is that it is a matter of settling a peaceful life. Cities are being liberated, but it is very common to find that local authorities have either actually fled, or have stained themselves by cooperating with terrorists, not using the support of citizens, or have withdrawn from their responsibilities. And there is a proposal for a person to temporarily coordinate the activities of the authorities, local self-government to ensure the interaction of the forces and public structures in order to make peace as quickly as possible, to make sure that supplies are fixed as quickly as possible, to counteract the humanitarian catastrophic consequences that unfortunately we see in those areas that are free from terrorists. Dear colleagues, I won't take up much of my time, so I think I've finished this report. The only thing we're asking for is support for this bill, taking it as a basis. Obviously, there are many issues of such importance that need to be discussed, and all of them can be worked out in the work committee after taking the project as a basis for further reading. And I would also like to point out for the protocol: please adopt this bill, take the basis of the possibility of redrafting the second reading, amending the Criminal Procedure Code on the traceability of the relevant actions, the relevant crimes referred to in the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u95	Thank you. Please. You can sit down. Any questions for the reporter? Well, if you have any questions, please sign up for the question. National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone who has participated in the adoption of the Criminal Code. Remember, for the second reading of George Carmazin, we considered a special part here, perhaps in the south? I have a question for you, the author of the bill. The Criminal Code in particular has a section that I think is "crimes against the established order of military service." There are some articles, I'll remember to say: 413 and so on and so forth. They're talking about what you're saying. We have the Terrorism Act. Article 15 clearly regulates how the media should behave. The second question. And the third question. There's an interesting novel in your bill that says something about a loudspeaker and someone doesn't do something. Well, do you realize there's no such thing? A loudspeaker was told, and he could not hear if he could not understand and so forth. Please tell me, why is this bill, when all the standards that you have written are in force and are in force today? Do you simply need a bill to combat terrorism?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. It's about the first part of the question. The rules of the bill actually specify the standards that are currently in force in the legislation on the subject of regulation and on the subject matter and on the subject, what are the instruments of terrorism that can be viewed as a tool of terrorism and such things. And second of all, what I'm talking about in a short speech is that the committee is going to be working on all of these things, and all of these things can be edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u98	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u99	Thank you, sir. Dear reporter, I have carefully read and analyzed the new legislators you are proposing. You're always relying on what's going on with the anti-terror operation. In fact, all of these novels, if you take a comparative table of the state of war and what you're proposing, these novels are the ingredients of the provision and implementation of the state of war. Tell us, please, that we can make a lot of reference to what is not needed for political reasons, of course, the state of war, which technology is produced there for elections and so on. Who does this technology at the state's expense, the government, and so on. Tell me a simple question: is it an anti-terrorism operation, or is it a war, or is ATO just a euphemism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u100	Power structures are in line with legislation, and this has been stated many times not only by Ukrainians but also by international institutions and other countries. Each force is monitored by the media and has a wide range of attention in the world. So in no way do these actions go beyond what is necessary to make order and restore legality. Because unfortunately, it was allowed there to kill people now, that there are mass killings there now, and that in fact a foreign country is aggressive against our state, using representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u101	People's MP Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u102	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Not so many questions, because our faction fully supports this bill, and because the replica of the previous speaker and Mr. Sukhoma, I'm going to say that it wasn't someone who said something to the megaphone. And look what's happening here, the latest report from the Donetsk fields, that Boris Litvinov became the new speaker of the so-called, terrorist organization of the Supreme Council of the Unrecognized DNR. Who is this? This is revealed by a member of the Communist Party of Ukraine and a member of the Bureau of the Donetsk People's Party. So tell me, Your Honor, how many of these dishes from the Communist Party of Ukraine are going to ruin our country? How many of these subjects are going to be engaged in a terrorist organization? Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u103	Let me finish. The accent of the performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u104	Maybe we should finally get order in our own parliament and have a lecture through the elections, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to keep order, we need to fight terrorist organizations, including if they're covered in party names and the Communist Party of Ukraine -- it's a real terrorist organization in Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u105	I can only support this statement by signing every word. This reaffirms the need for parliamentary political responsibility and early elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u106	The national deputy Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u107	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter. Of course, the law you have proposed, I am grateful to you for that, and the country is grateful. The country needs, of course, our army, our Armed Forces literally pierced, our traitors today, our sellers, is the truth. It's a bitter truth, but it's something we need to talk about. What's worth General Pushnakov, who explains to the army, is that we're going to protect the post from the long-term cannons, and the soldier doesn't support and send it. Or another General Lacuta, for example, who says on the phone that we send you some gun meat. Because of this law, it is essential. But it's complicated. Explanation, please, what do you mean when you write: terrorist supporter? Is that the one who brought the water, say, that's where he gave them a drink? Who picked up the bullets, or what? It seems to me that this concept, which is completely confused, we have to specify it to make it. You could really use it in practice. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u108	Thank you. Well, of course, an aider of terrorism is a person who, by his actions, advice, instructions, the provision of tools or tools to terrorists or the removal of obstacles to terrorist activity, the blocking of the movement of military technology, or the creation of other obstacles for participants in an anti-terrorist operation, or otherwise contributed to terrorist activities. Obviously, I didn't accidentally point out that we're talking about the adoption of this bill on the first reading. The profile committee will then consider all the details, all the necessary changes that will allow for the best possible solution. But I thank you for your position, because unfortunately, it is absolutely necessary to introduce such concepts, to clarify them and to direct very specific standards so that people who engage in and support terrorist activities are responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u109	Please, one last question. National deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Pavlovenko, from the Strike Party. I absolutely believe that you sincerely wanted to hit the separatists. But would it not seem to you that instead of proposing a bill of law that is in principle already in Ukrainian legislation, it would be better for Ukraine to send young, healthy, rich men like you instead of those children who are not shot, poor, unable to redeem themselves from the army that is being sent to death? Would you like to volunteer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u111	You know, this is the very question that we can turn to any political force. And you have enough healthy, rich, and other men. What's more, I think the Party of Regions is supposed to atone for certain things in front of Ukraine. And first of all, you have to go there and prove that you're a party of Ukraine, not another state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we have given everyone the opportunity to ask a question. Please report to your workplace. The report is to be made by the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Čumak Viktor Vasilovich. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u113	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of the fight against terrorism proposes to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code, to establish criminal responsibility for certain activities that interfere with the conduct of an antiterrorist operation. Amendments to the Terrorism Act propose the introduction of a new terminology, including the concept of a "terrorist handbook", which is very specifically discussed by the reporter Rostislav Pavlenko. Set additional restrictions in the course of an anti-terror operation, specify the conduct of citizens living in the area of an anti-terrorist operation, and limit mass action in the area. To regulate the activities of State authorities, local self - government, other entities, and authority in the area of antiterrorist operations. And to establish the responsibility of persons involved in an anti-terror operation. At its July 1st meeting, the Committee adopted a decision on the compatibility of the draft act with anti-corruption legislation and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to improve the fight against terrorism. This bill is noted by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Moreover, the committee was contacted by a number of law - enforcement organizations and their warnings about the text, most of which can be considered correct. And you also talked about the right things to take into account in your performances. In this connection, the bill was sent to the Ukrainian Anti - Terrorism Centre for Security, which supported the bill, supporting its adoption as the basis for the first reading. In this regard, the committee proposes to set a short time limit for amending the bill and to carefully process it before second reading, taking into account the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u114	Any questions for the reporter? Please sign in. Dear colleagues, there have been a lot of enrollments on the question. But I would like to remind you that we only have three minutes before the report to ask a question. So the first three are going to be able to ask questions to the people's deputies. Please, People's MP Mirny, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u115	Please pass the word to Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u116	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u117	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Tell me, Mr. Kilinkarov, who was found at home, in fact, a whole arsenal of terrorist weapons, is he a terrorist supporter or not, do you think and say, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u118	Mr. Oleg, I'm not a judge to determine whether Mr. Kilinkarov is a terrorist supporter or not, it has to set up an impartial, fair trial, and I think the court will be able to do that if they have a proper task or an appropriate one. Rather, not the task, but if it is proper and proper. But what I'm saying is that Mr. Kilinkar and I have quite a difference. Because when we talked to him about terrorism once, when I was talking about the word "our" I was stressing about Ukrainian soldiers: The Armed Forces, the Nazis and all that. When Mr. Kilincarov sometimes spoke of the word "ours," that's exactly the word "ours" was spoken to them as representatives of terrorism and terrorism. terrorists and separatists. So I think it's going to be established by the court whether it's Mr. Kilincarov or other people who might have been established by the court to have contributed to such activities in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. And I can't give it yet, unfortunately, according to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u119	Please, National Deputy Sabi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u120	Igor Sabiy, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Krasilov. Mr. Reporter, would you please tell us if we could under this law bring the responsibility of members of the local councils, who have supported the separatists in a massive way and have called for secessionism in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u121	I think that the MPs, fortunately, do not use MPs, are citizens. And according to what the competent authorities have been doing, and this is what Mr. Pavelenko said, that following these crimes is consistent with the changes that will be made to the KPC and will be in the Ukrainian Security Service, if there are, you know, signs of the action envisaged by these articles, I think, absolutely calmly, they can be called to account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u122	Please, National Deputy Capplin, final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u123	Please give Irina Heratchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u124	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u125	Mr. Reporter, and you know, journalists from secular chronicles say that one "Chanel" bag costs about 3,000 euros, and one "Chanel" dress costs about that much. Please tell me, how much can you buy an armored vest if you sell one ammunition to a wealthy woman who is now hanged by the Chanels in this session room? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u126	You make me count and I'll try to count very quickly. And I think at least 10, 10 high-grade armored vests. So it's at least 10 vests, there's 4 plus 5 of the defense class.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u127	Thank you, reporter. Please take your seat. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the speeches of the national deputies who are willing to accept this law. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the faction, may I remind you, is the recording coming? Please, the national deputy of Orotyuk gives the floor to the national deputy of Osuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u128	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! A month ago, we had adopted amendments to the Terrorism Act, and we gave more authority to the border guards. We have given more authority to the State Security Service, including for liaison, and we have given more authority to the President so that he can involve professionals, including intelligence, and the link between the fight against terrorism in our country. And it is clear that today we must support this bill. And as for the tools of terrorism, and attracting them to criminal responsibility. All those people who finance terrorism today put up weapons. All those who are betraying today, especially the law enforcement officials, who today in the eastern territories seem to be serving Ukraine and the Ukrainian State, and who are really supporters of terrorists and leaking information, then smashing and shooting our military personnel. All of them should be drawn to criminal responsibility by the unscrupulous. It also identifies the role and location of the local population in the area of counterterrorism. Clearly, the peaceful population has no right to block the technology of our military personnel, and it must be subject to the direction of an anti-terrorist operation. It is also forbidden to access certain objects that are popular with terrorists. Clearly, when they communicate with military officials, they still demand the introduction of a military state in Ukraine, for it is the introduction of a military state that will ensure that in the short term they complete an anti-terrorist operation and destroy all terrorists. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this bill and we also ask the Hall to support it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u129	The National Deputy Pober is passing the word, I understand, to the People's Deputy Heratchenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u130	Dear Ukrainians, today, unfortunately, we have a lot of facts about how the support of terrorism and separatism goes, unfortunately not only in this session hall, but two factions are Communists, and unfortunately, the Party of Regions, but also those citizens who are called Ukrainian citizens, who give the terrorists lists of Ukrainian activists and then kidnap them, torture them, kill them. We have the facts of today's robbery at Boeing, which is being hit by terrorists, when people are laughing at their victims, and they're also helping terrorists hide their crimes today. Today, we have many appeals from the inhabitants of those cities and towns that are being liberated today by the ATO forces when Ukrainian citizens in Slaviansk, Kramatarski, other cities with tears of joy meet the Ukrainian army and forces of Nazgwardia. And then they ask us, including, "What are these so-called measures doing here that opened the doors of their cities to protect them from terrorists, these terrorists? And for the time being, she's only giving a witness to Mrs. Stef, who's been calling for a war on her own territory. It is quite obvious that this law is extremely important. And when colleagues ask the question that it's written out there, it's not really written anywhere. Because Ukraine has never experienced such distress in its life, we need to improve our laws. And, you know, for those of you who care about Russia today, it's worth reminding us that Russia has enacted the law, that in just one word against Russia's unity, the responsibility is four years in prison. Perhaps we too need to strengthen Ukraine’s independence and combat terrorism and separatism. And that's why impact is going to be a complete faction of support for this law, and we're going to ask other colleagues to do so. And the second. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to address the Lords of Ephraim and the others here, and perhaps the Novinskys, the Ahmats, who are looking at us now. We have a chance today not only to give your colleague Chanel's purse back for 3,000 euros, but also to raise money for the operation of this guy who's protecting Ukraine without armor today, so that we can all sit in this room. So from our faction, we are announcing an auction for the purchase of this purse, and please transfer the money for the treatment of this Yuri, whom we have taken to Israel by force. I think you made some money on your shoes to buy it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u131	Zuravsky National Deputy, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I am one of the members of the Group of Deputies of Economic Development, which has consistently contributed its own resources, i.e. the expenses of deputies to the Kyiv Hospital and the purchase of armored vests and helmets. And personally, in my constituency, I also sacrifice myself to the community that raises money for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Now, specifically to the bill. It is of course relevant, but it is necessary to write more clearly the concept of "book" so that no peaceful people who are at risk of the death of the family are forced to dig trenches under the guns of armed terrorist bandits. I'm calling on Victor Vasilovich Chumak's head of profile committee, and you're going to be looking at the bill on the second reading, and notice that. There are also a number of substantial claims to the Bill of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. They're right about the Criminal Code. Consider, too, that from a legal point of view, it is far from perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u133	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u134	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, national MPs! First of all, I would like to say that at the meeting of the group "Supreme European Ukraine" we made a unanimous decision to support this bill. But I can't help but say the following. Dear colleagues, would you try to deny that if a military state had been adopted in Ukraine, which, in fact, fully corresponds to the essence of the events that are now taking place in part of Ukraine, these fragmented, I emphasize, fragmented though the right bills, are not the first to be passed, would it not be necessary? Because when I asked the author of the legislative initiative what was actually all of the innovations, all the legislative dispositions were or directly corresponded to those things that were written in the war state where, if there was a country, there would be no need to accept it. I can't help but say my point of view again. I now have the least interest in the argument that is being used by those who do not want to establish or accept the state of war in Ukraine. This argument is actually political if we put our hands on the heart, technologically, given the use of some technology and everything else. But this doesn't stop being a serious situation, which is when people die, when they die from tanks that walk through columns, from howitzers, from heavy artillery, from minomets, from MANPADS, from airplanes -- is ATO? Who are we kidding? What is ATO? Regular military forces are active against Ukraine, and we are pretending that we know what an anti-terror operation is, considering only our political moments. You beat yourself in the head, because I think the expertise will show who's who. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this bill needs to be voted on, as it does for other bills, but it does not change the key subject. And it's that you don't have to deal with euphemisms, like I said. War is a war, and it should have tools for our military, our regular army, not anti-terrorist operations. Anti-terrorist operation – the BSS is supposed to do this, and we use aviation, tanks are being used. What's that? Does anyone here know? We are deceiving ourselves by coming from the technological developments that someone is advising when making elections. And in terms of the money that's on the injured, I think that, at least, one and a half billion dollars for the political campaign would be very helpful to the wounded in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u135	People's Deputy Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, you know that we are today adopting a second bill to protect the country, to protect the people. What are some of the areas in the ATO? The first is Mr. Suškević, God willing, because the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health are calling him because they are not subject to the law. This is the second law that we pass because we call this ATO. Two bills that, thank you, and two of mine, and two of the Oksanas sold you yesterday voted to include in the agenda, these are four other bills that we're trying to block holes in the issue that is clear and clear. I want to be heard by the President of Ukraine, who gave his explanation yesterday in part why he found it impossible to introduce a military state. Mr. President, you've been misled. The state of war and the state of war in two areas are two different things. The import of weapons is not prohibited, as you wrote when a military condition is introduced. No, Mr. President, the law clearly states that imports are prohibited for the aggressor. The scariest thing we've got right now is that we're replacing the notions, we're playing on Russia's hand. When we call it ATO -- and he says, "There's no Russia there. It's an intercom." And when we say that this is a military situation in Donetsk and Lugansk, we clearly emphasize, "Do you mean that our separatists have cities?" We have to make it clear that the military situation in Donetsk and Lugansk provides social protection for the military, all the Self-Defense teams, protects the peaceful population, protects the business, because today they're stealing a businessman or shooting a child and they're demanding to go and do business re-registration. And so, Your Honor, thank you so much for drafting this bill. I very much ask him to accept as soon as possible and implement it. Because at this point in time, Klimenko's man is working in Munich, and he's funding, so no business of his has closed with a "brother," and he's funding separatists. The same Kilinkarov should be brought to justice, and your law should be in effect. Thank you for stopping these holes. But I think we need to work in public. If this is Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine, so should we. And we will uphold the law. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, members of the factions who had signed up, spoke. Does anyone insist on the performance? Colleagues, well, factions have already come out of the factions. I'm asking you, let's make a decision. I'm asking you, Your Honor, an important question. The question, indeed, is that we can strengthen the positions of our military -- the participants in the anti-terrorist operation -- in order to make them more effective in protecting our country. At the same time, it is clear that the law needs to be further developed for the second reading. I worry that on Wednesday, Friday, for some reason, such non-parliamentary days, although by law, under the Constitution MPs should work both Wednesday and Friday, and when the country needs it when the Ukrainian people need it. I'm not going to repeat myself about discipline anymore, so I'm asking, given the importance of this issue, let's try to vote in a signal vote right now and then we'll make a decision on how to proceed with the law. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please prepare for the vote. Please make a signal vote to support this law. Please vote. [[13:29:46]] For-182 182 national MPs support this law, so I understand the proposals from factions. According to factions, the advice is wise, please. 66 – "The Fatherland", 0 – "The Party of Regions", "The Strike" – 33, "Economic Development" – 14.35 – "Freedom", 19 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 0, KPU – 0, non-fractional – 15. I understand that, proposals from authors and factions to determine tomorrow. Yeah? It's supported, dear fellows. The next question for consideration, honourable national deputies, is registration number 4984. This is a draft law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice (recrimination of decisions made by local authorities). Please, the national deputy of the Sanchenko will report this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u138	You should listen to the chairman when the chairman proposes a simplified procedure. Let's give it a try, but I don't think that this proposal is going to be supported. Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. [[13:31:11]] For-170. Decision taken. We're talking about a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u139	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, the project proposes to amend article 19 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality, according to which administrative matters relating to the prosecution by the State authorities of acts, decisions, actions or omissions of local self-government authorities and bodies created by them are decided by the prosecutor's administrative court at the place where the complainant's authority is located or by the location of the defendant. The situation in the eastern areas of Ukraine led to the inability to provide legal, objective, and impartial security. Ensure a legal, objective and impartial review of complaints of illegal decisions by local authorities regarding the location of the defendants, since there is a real threat of seizure of the courts’ premises, unlawful acts of violence against judges, court officials, and other parties to the trial. The possibility of an alternative determination of the subjectivity of such cases, also at the location of the State authorities, which is usually the subject of authority, is extended throughout Ukraine, since they are subjects of a national level. And this will contribute to legal, objective, impartial handling of cases and prevent illegal pressure on judges and other parties to the trial. The bill was supported by a professional committee and supported by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u140	Thank you, please sit down. Thank you, Andrey Vilenovich. Please contact the head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Germany, Mr. Leonidas Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u141	Dear Chairman. Dear colleagues. You have before you a bill amending article 19 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine concerning the prosecution of decisions made by the local government authorities, the author of which is the National Deputy of the Fatherland faction, Andry Senchenko. The substance of the bill has already been presented by the author, but I would like to point out that the aim of the bill is to resolve a situation that the legislator, when he was formulating the code of administrative justice that is in force today, simply had no possibility of predicting. Well, who could have imagined that we would have administrative-territorial units on which it would not be possible to do so or to do so, or a decision taken by the local authorities that would be based on the will of the deputies elected there. Well, we understand what decisions are being made today in Lugansk and Donetsk by a machine gun. There: (a) There is no local self - government as a fact. Today, there are decisions made by terrorists and bandits. And (b) there is no justice left because the courts are not working. Well, that's a real fact, no court in Luhansk and Donetsk is working today. Neither the general jurisdiction nor the administrative nor the commercial court. Only when terrorists and bandits have the good will to do so are they able to bring judges to their office under a machine gun and force them to write a decision. Hence, this bill is vital to the situation that has arisen today. And the Supreme Council Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice considered this issue and recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading. My personal position. I don't think there's time for us to delay solving this issue today. If it is the will of Parliament today to exercise governmental authority, the national position and vote should not be limited to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u142	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u143	It needs to be accepted today as a whole, because this issue, the solution today, immediately requires the situation and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Leonid. I'd like you to sign up for two for two for one, two for the other, for discussion. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Pankević, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u145	I'd like to give the floor to Deputy Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u146	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u147	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It is clear that in the east, because of what is happening to the ATO, it is not possible to exercise justice properly. And in order to be able to challenge the decisions of local governments, it is necessary to provide alternative jurisdiction, as the drafters foresee. That is, administrative cases involving the prosecution by the authorities of acts, decisions, actions or omissions of local self-government authorities and bodies created by them are decided by the prosecutor's election by the administrative court for the location of the Public Prosecutor's Authority. So in principle, as we have allowed criminal conduct to be carried out in other courts not by location, we also offer these possibilities for amending the Code of Administrative Justice. I think we're dealing with a situation that's been delayed for months, and there's no judiciality as such in the east. Therefore, the possibility of judicial action in other courts is urgency and a requirement of time. And as for those judges who don't do justice, we need to put a question in the agenda about the release of judges who already have, dozens of judges who get paid -- millions and we can't release them. So I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council to finally put into order the day-to-day question about the dismissal of judges, those who resigned, and to resolve this issue. To keep the budget from paying them their wages. Because they don't do justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u148	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Fries, the Vitaly Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u149	Please pass on the word of Natale Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u150	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u151	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Natalia Agaphonova, Vitalia Klitschka Faction. Of course, there is no denying that justice must be carried out according to the same rules throughout the country. But this rule is not to be denied in a normal country that operates under normal conditions. Now actually what we have in the east of the country is a situation where we don't have judges when we don't have a trial. Therefore, there is an urgent need to accept an act under which the prosecutor had the right to charge, to charge, and to charge the decision of the local authorities. That's why this bill is supported by our faction that it needs to be supported in general. And now there's an urgent need for us to vote on this and give the plaintiffs the right to choose an alternative and to appeal those decisions that are actually unfair today, both in terms of common sense and in terms of the territorial integrity of the country. So our faction will support, I invite everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u152	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Philipenko, the Economic Development Group. I'm asking for a microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Indeed, the bill is valid. And it's given, as far as I can see, by the fact that individual authorities of local self-government have made decisions for a time that they can't make under the Constitution, and by law they can't make. Accordingly, in this case it is suggested that the issue of jurisdiction be settled. But we should also be guided by professional common sense. We need to understand that apart from the question of jurisdiction that is proposed to be settled in this law, there is a question of the subordination of disputes. There is article 17, which defines who has the right to appeal to a court. And in this case, if we don't address the issue of subordination, that is, we don't give the right to appeal to a court in such cases, we will again run into the issue of rejection. For that reason it will be denied either on procedural grounds or on a trial basis. And we will not get what the drafter wants. What our group is offering. Because we cannot amend article 116 of the Rules in article 17 of the Code of Administrative Justice, since only article 19 is being amended. We also suggest that if the author agrees, we will support this bill. But we should take a professional approach to this issue, make adjustments to article 17. If you don't mind, I'm going to quote the transcript to get everyone to understand what's going on. Paragraph 3 of Part Two of Article 17 of the Code of Administrative Justice should be made available in the following edition. “Controversies between bodies of authority for the exercise of their competence in the sphere of administration, including delegated powers, including disputes arising out of an accusation by the authority of the State of acts, decisions, actions or omissions of its organs, as well as acts, decisions, actions or omissions of local self-government authorities on matters falling within the competence of the relevant authority of the State.” So we're going to be able to challenge these decisions, action or inactivity. Accordingly, we complement the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u154	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u155	The author of the bill proposed articles 19 and 4, we believe, paragraph 5. If this is supported, we also support the bill, otherwise it will not work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u156	Thank you. I would like to take you to the words of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, the Group "Supreme European Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u157	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, in an explanatory note to this bill I read a reference to problems with decisions, and that is indeed true in two areas of Ukraine in the Donetsk and Luhansk region. Then I open the text of the bill itself, and this is about the possibility that all over Ukraine, either at the request of the prosecutor or at the request of the prosecutor, is not going to be the case where the local self-government is located. I mean, according to this bill, it could be in Lvivsky, Vinnitsky, Kiev, yes, anywhere. You see, your colleagues, there's a strange situation here, so we're saying that there are wrong decisions in two areas, so maybe I'll limit it to your mind, maybe limit the right of the plaintiff, that is, States to deal with these judicial matters, not at the place where the local self-government body is located in these two areas. And so it turns out that the state has an opportunity in any area, in any place, to change the address, where this is happening, and to do everything in Kiev. Why leave Kiev to do so in Turupina or in Tutyak? To consider, say, protesting the decision of the local government. I'd like to ask the author of the legislative initiative, well, I understand, a reduced procedure, but to think about it. Otherwise, we all love to talk about local self-government, but I'm afraid it's not a decoration and a bit of a metaphor in relation to those local authorities, local self-government bodies that we don't really have a claim to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u158	Thank you. Andrew Vilenovich, you have two words to finish, maybe. The MPs made good comments. Your proposal, as the author, is to turn on Andrew Vilenovich Senchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u159	Well, I support the offer of MP Philippenny, the only offer as an amendment. Because it's a good offer and it'll ensure that decisions are made, not just change. With regard to the comments of our colleague Zarubinsky, such an alternative view, he does not deny participation in Kiev if, for example, the Attorney General refers to the administrative court for its location. This isn't in any area, either by the location of the defendant or by the location of the defendant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u160	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, all willing to take the floor, let us go to the vote. I'll ask the secretariat to invite the deputies to the session room right now. Could you turn on Katerinczuk's microphone, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u161	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. I have a constructive proposal to move this vote to four. In principle, the question is essentially addressed. And those suggestions that were, I thought, could be worked out and put to tomorrow's vote. Because we see, today, there's actually not enough people in the room today to vote. So we'll have to move on to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u162	I see there are still hands. Kaida, Yavorowski, and Yemen as coreporters. And we'll decide. Please, Kaida.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, we support the previous proposal to postpone the vote to tomorrow. Although the entire faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is fully voting for the necessary bills. We call on all members of the coalition to ensure that the members of their factions show up tomorrow, because otherwise we'll be trampling on the ground again, we'll be postponing and translating laws that are important to the state for our military victory. Therefore, we ask that the vote on this bill be postponed to tomorrow. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u164	Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u165	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, there seems to have been an error of opinion, and it's quite obvious that you don't even have to put it, Mr. Head, you don't have to put it to a vote right now, because there are clearly no votes. And tomorrow, I'm sure, and by the way, Fatherland is asking everyone to show up tomorrow, we need to vote on a number of very important bills. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. We've had a discussion here about helpers. First of all, the word "assistant" is pure Russian kalka. Some people here have tried to reclassify it as a "book" -- it's ridiculous and unnatural, because "book" is a completely different concept. As a result, I turn to Pauline. Dear colleague, take it immediately, correct, if we vote on this bill, correct the English word "accompanied".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! Deputies of the people of Yemen, factions of the Fatherland. I do have a request with the understanding that we really don't seem to have enough votes to make any decision on the Supreme Council. But still, give this Supreme Council a chance to demonstrate that it is capable of accepting the urgent issues that are important to the state today and putting to a signal vote so that by tomorrow and the citizens can see who has a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u168	Thank you. Capplin, please. We finish, literally, a minute and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u169	We support the idea of the previous speaker, the whole country needs to see individual political groups vote, such as Peace and Stability, the Party of Regions, the lack of communists yet to be destroyed, and so forth. And with the opportunity, I'd like to go to that part of the room that really doesn't want elections and wants to introduce different other constitutional regimes into the state. It will not be possible, my dears, to deprive the Ukrainian people of the opportunity to convert this Supreme Council. And to some of the people's deputies, such as Oliynik, Ephraim and so forth, I recommend teaching and repeating, like mantra, the words "summer," the words "summer." In the fall we will take over the Supreme Council and you will all stand before the law and sit for at least 15 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u170	Honourable National MPs, coreporter, secretary of the Committee on the Rule of Law, proposed voting in a signal vote. Let's see, maybe by the number of deputies in the session room we have, let's see what possibilities we have. The signal vote, let's see, or maybe we'll just have political will and opportunities. Therefore, the honourable national MPs, I bet on the signal vote. Please invite the deputies to the session room, and let's see if we have a chance to support this bill. So please include the "Council" system and the national MPs to determine. [[13:50:41]] For 155 Please show by factions. Parenthood – 51, Party of Regions – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 31, Economic Development – 12, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 35, Sovereign European Ukraine – 16, Peace and Stability – 0, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 10. So, honourable national MPs, you can see that unfortunately, the bill doesn't get the necessary number of votes. On request, with motive, now one second. Then there was a proposal that was already being made in the session room that we should move it to the next plenary session with the possibility of voting. With the motive of Peace and Peace, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u171	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Let's focus on the results of the vote. I wonder why when a faction submits a bill, for example, two votes from a faction simply don't vote, there are no cards, there are no people? And then we start saying that let's not break, let's not do that, let's not do that. Our job now is to support the bill, which is to introduce the state of war, achieve peace, and go to the polls. So we have to say this clearly. "Freedom" votes for a hundred percent of the coalition members, everyone else walks. If you'll excuse me, then why do we tell each other how we should act? Let's answer for ourselves first, let's secure the result, and then we have the right to ask questions to others, and otherwise, excuse me. So you don't have to confuse sin with the righteous, the state of war in any way cancels the election, and Freedom supports both elections and the state of war. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u172	Vladimir Filipenko and we're done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u173	Vladimir Filipenko, Economic Development Group. We gave the votes during the signal vote. And once again, I want to say that we will support this bill. But please, because there are no votes for him to be accepted right now, right up until tomorrow, if you'd given a task to a profile committee to work it out with those comments I announced from the rostrum. Since the reporter does not deny it either, then this bill will really work if it is signed by the President of Ukraine. We're willing to give all the votes if the bill is adopted in the same way that we talked about and it's not denied by the author. If we have time, Mr. Chairman, please give us a proper commission, and tomorrow we will leave with a consolidated position, and it will have more than 226 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We have six minutes left. Then I will ask if we have the will in the session room, we will go to the next agenda item, this is the bill (registration number 3265) to amend some Ukrainian legislation (to ensure that citizens have access to coastal protection lanes of water objects and beaches). I am requesting to the Parliamentary Chamber of the People's Deputy of Ukraine Balou Viktor Ivanovich. Is there a Baloga Viktor Ivanovich? There's no report. Well, then we take it off now, we move on to the next one. Registration number 2967. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (on the involvement of local communities and public organizations in the question of optimizing, reorganizing or eliminating the network of public and municipal health institutions). Bill 2967. Please come to the rostrum of Pavlovsky’s national deputy, Andrija Mikhailovich. How will we consider the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u175	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u176	The author proposes a reduced procedure. People's deputies are asked to determine by their vote. Please vote. [[13:55:08]] For 121 The decision is not approved. Dear people's deputies, we have a dilemma now, if we're full. full consideration, it's about an hour, but we've already announced it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u177	So let me start with the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u178	Then let the reporter get as short as possible so that we can look at maybe we can continue our work for a few minutes so that we can complete the consideration of this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u179	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished fellow national MPs! You are invited to consider a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for involving local communities and public organizations to address the issue of optimizing, reorganizing or eliminating the network of public or municipal health institutions). This is due to the fact that the country was tired of the so-called medical reforms of Yanukovič-Bogatyrová when, in the form of optimism, public or municipal health facilities were shut down and doctors were released and thrown into the streets. To put an end to this "battle" and to make it impossible for you to do so, and the bill that you have just proposed is that, first of all, that any optimization, restructuring or liquidation of public health institutions (underlining) is allowed only after the approval of the public council with the Ministry of Public Health or other central executive authority or the approval of the relevant public administrations, the relevant public councils. With regard to public health institutions, they are allowed to be eliminated in general only after a local referendum on the matter has been held. It is also proposed to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for criminal responsibility, if such optimisation, for the removal of medical facilities by high-level employees. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to ensure the transparency, democratic principles during the optimisation, reorganization, and elimination of public or municipal health institutions, the constitutional right of Ukrainians to health and health care. Then let the local community determine its health care needs. So I would like to support the bill, regardless of which faction the National MP belongs to. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u180	Thank you. Please sign up for a question for the reporter. You don't? Well, then, let's give the word to the co-reporter. Please, National Deputy Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u181	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement Law Enforcement, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Pavlovsky and Turkin's Alexander Valentinovich, has considered a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (number 2967). What is proposed in the bill has just been clearly explained by Andrew Mikhailovich. You know that there are changes to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the basics of Ukrainian legislation on health protection, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Government, which set out how to deal with the issues of optimization, reorganization, the elimination of state public health institutions, and criminal responsibility for the violation of this order. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus is of the opinion that it is appropriate to reject. The committee believes that the adoption of the bill is relevant and will contribute to the improvement of the legal framework and the protection of citizens’ rights to health. Him. The proposal is unanimously supported by the members of the committee. So thank you for your attention, and please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u182	Thank you. Ask the factions to sign up for the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] See? Thank you. What unanimity. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we may have a final word. No performances? The performances are said to be out of action. [[B in m in s a l in]] No questions asked, there's a statement. Factions, please sign in. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Rosenk from the Vitalia Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u183	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Of course, there are a lot of decisions in the Supreme Council regarding the prohibition of the retraining of medical institutions, educational institutions on the need to involve the public in this process. These are certainly the right initiatives, initiatives that can be supported. Moreover, local authorities should also take public initiatives, public organizations. In general, civil society should take its place in public decision - making, but on the other hand, I would like to know at all and I am very sorry that we do not see from the government today any initiatives on the future of our health system at all. Everyone understands that in the current state of the medical sector, the entire health system, it does not respond to the demands of society today. Today neither can the state, let's say, this situation in this area, but the main thing is that our fellow citizens absolutely do not satisfy the quality of this medical education, more faithfully, of the medical sphere that these citizens today have to work on. Disappointment is complete. See, in Kiev it is difficult to go to these hospitals where our fellow citizens are serving, let alone other areas and centers. And on the other hand, for five months, we have not seen from the Ministry of Health, not even a single vision of where the Ukrainian health system is moving. And most of all, there is no need to invent anything; there is a worldwide system of health insurance, compulsory government health insurance, voluntary health insurance, and private health insurance. Ukraine, in general, thinks of something that changes the state’s health system? Unfortunately, there is no answer. And until we get an answer from our authority, we will periodically return to the need to make such decisions. Therefore, in our view, the absence of reforms in Ukraine today provokes, including dissatisfaction with our citizens, both economic policy and social policy, as well as the provision of services, including. That's why the strike faction requires today's authorities to carry out systemic reforms on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u184	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to National Deputy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Saint Hanenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u186	Please turn on Saint Hanenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u187	The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports this bill in view of what Rosenko has pointed out, and this in public and political hearing, health issues must be addressed by everyone who is interested in working effectively to ensure that health care is quality and accessible. The involvement of local communities, their representations, the discussion and decision-making of this issue are in line with the Ukrainian protection programme and, obviously, is not enough in the preparation and decision-making of the health system. That's why we support, I repeat. At the same time, it was clearly pointed out that this is the first of the six bill packages that relate to this issue. The fact that the authorities' attention to this issue is not adequate is that we will look at the date of the registration of these bills. One of them is still in the 12th year of registration, the rest of the year. So I support and encourage us to look at this issue more systematically and make a really state decision. In this faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" is unanimous and we call for this position to be realized by all fellow MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u188	Welcome to the words of the national deputy of Yavorowski, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u189	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, for several months from this rostrum, I was talking about the fact that the Party of Regions, at least its aggressive wing, and the Communists, have so miscalculated Ukrainian legislation that we're going to have to get it back to normal for about six months or even a year. Two things in this disability are, of course, retirement. The pension of their so-called reform, and the second, perhaps even more painful, is medical reform. The most affected were my colleagues and many others who are sitting here, the Winnietsk region. My small village, which literally dies where I was born, had previously had even been able to reach the district hospital seven miles [7 km] away. They canceled this hospital. And today, 40 kilometers to the district center! Which way, I don't say. Because of this, of course, and it is good that not only a colleague today, my fellow Paulian, but many national deputies are actually on the subject today. Most importantly, we need to stop this madness, stop it immediately. The other one. Finally, we have to have the courage to go to insurance. Leave some basic medicine at the level of, say, the state that pays for it. This may be first aid, as it were. And the rest, we have to translate it into insurance medicine. Similarly, we need to do the same, and we need to do the same with a pension reform that has already matured and matured. Bills are ready and should be introduced into this room. I'm convinced that today this aggressive group of national MPs, who are actually visitors today, from here are correcting fire in the Luhansk and Donetsk region, are being corrected literally on the phone: "Move fire there. Bring the fire here." And then they bring us fragments that they picked up out there, which means on the outskirts of Lugansk and all of that, which turns out to be the birds that just took them into their yard and released them. Because of that, dear fellows, today we are certainly to our great shame, I am convinced today, such a situation in the state, - here we gather votes, carry everything to tomorrow! Well, it can't, it's insane! Because of this, those who do not go or vote today are the people who propose today and provoke the immediate dissolution of this parliament! What is this Parliament that needs to be gathered and persuaded to vote for the most important bills that are today?Oh, my God! Because this bill needs to be voted on tomorrow -- once again, to stop this madness and to embark on a normal radical medical reform -- that will save the health of our Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u190	Thank you. Please turn on Zarubinski's microphone, the group "Supreme European Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, on the content of the bill. It is understandable that in the medical field the involvement of local communities is necessary, for it does not exist for space and not for machinery. It's for the people. And that's why people have to participate in determining the fate of actual medicine. Now for the form. I see that Mr. Pavlovsky proposed this bill as early as May 2013. See, it's 25.03. 20114. Today, two months later, he finally reached the Supreme Council. I have a question here. I think it's a legitimate question. I remember six months ago, especially a year ago, how many scribblings had been broken, how much, unfortunately, I can say to the present sessional force, had apparently been broken down by my colleagues in connection with these two major reforms: health reform and pension reform. I don't understand why it's been July, the end of July, and not the cancelled pension reform, which so much has been talked about a year ago by many of my colleagues. But pass this bill, we're ready to vote for it. Let's vote tomorrow on the total difference between pension reform and a. "B" is a complete, total contrast to the so-called health reform. "B" and so on. Why turn it away? Otherwise, what happened a year ago, six months ago, was simply a populace. Well, I hope my fellow dignitaries wouldn't have reached such a populace that they were sincere when they opposed pension reform, against medical reform. Mr. Chairman, I very much ask you to put forward tomorrow's 10 o'clock drafts, they are in order of the day for this session, of the difference, of the total difference between these unfortunate reforms. And then all my colleagues will be very consistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u192	To say the least, unfortunately, we have not reached these points today, today there are five bills in the agenda that relate to this very issue that you have just mentioned. Regrettably, I hope that they will be included in the next plenary meeting as well. To conclude, I invite the author of the bill of the Pavlovsky People's Deputy Andrija Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u193	I sincerely thank my fellow national MPs who have really taken note of the importance of this topic, because it is actually stopping that sad so-called medical reform and taking at least the first step. And I'm very sorry that the government didn't do it. Where, then, is our minister from the Midianian Health Ministry who should have introduced this bill on behalf of the government himself? And so, in order not to overturn this important topic, actually by overturning this sad medical reform, I'm asking you to postpone voting for the bill for tomorrow, because it's really too important for both pension and medical reform. Your Honor, I ask you to vote for tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-23-m0.u194	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the final word is. What was the proposal to move to the next plenary session? With your permission, I'll ask this question to be moved to the nearest plenary meeting, given that we've discussed it and we've heard all the good points and suggestions of the national MPs. And for the announcement, today, at 15 o'clock in the Hall, a session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held with parliamentary hearings on the theme "The defence of Ukraine in the 21st century: challenges, threats and ways of overcoming them." At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thank you. Good-bye.
