ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, distinguished guests, invited! Ladies and gentlemen, I invite everyone to the session room, we will begin our work. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:18]] There are 248 national deputies registered in the hall. We begin the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please show by factions. Region Party 23, Fatherland 66, Vitalia Klicka, 37, Freedom Company 35, Ukrainian Company 32, non-fractional 55. Announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to personal statements made, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of People's Deputies of Ukraine: Volkova Alexander Mihajlovich, Dudka Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Polachenko Jurija Volodymyrovich, Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Groševský Vitalija Anatoliyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the Ukrainian Return to Constitution Act 2004 has been sent to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration today. It's done. Today. Just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u2	Just now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Vladimir Vasilovich, has written a statement in connection with sickness and treatment and has asked that he withdraw the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u4	Dear voters, dear colleagues, you and I have gathered in this room, I think, at a historic moment. We've taken many steps and I'd like us not to make mistakes. And it's not about personnel issues, it's about a much deeper question that's now before the country, it's about the unity of Ukraine. I'd like to propose now before we can set up the agenda and start making decisions, meeting with the factions and agree on our joint action. After all, some of the members of the Party of Regions have not yet arrived at a liaison meeting, we will find out what circumstances have hindered them. And I call on all decisions to be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote in favour of the Party of Regions. This will allow us, dear colleagues, not to tear Ukraine apart. It is vital that the decisions we make yesterday be recognized by both the West and the East. Thank you for your attention. And this is my address to the chairman of our session so that we can announce at least half an hour's recess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, given the complexity of today's situation, let's say: (a) we are now the main questions that we need. For example, I have a number of other statements that I have to make so that we can get back to work. The other one. We have to vote today in response to Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak's statement about the recall, we have to confirm that. So I'm asking you to stay calm, sit in your jobs. We're having a tough day today, it's gonna be a long day, it looks like a work day. Therefore, all our questions must be balanced and clearly voted on. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the factions of the Party of the Regions wrote: Szczerbina Artemiy Volodymyrovich, Sczerba, I apologize, Sczerba. Dudka Volodymir Volodymyrovich. I'm sorry. Alexander Mikhailovich. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Please, National Deputy Shufrich. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u6	Thank you. Turn on the microphone, please. Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! It's actually a very difficult situation right now, and maybe we should demonstrate the unity we've demonstrated in the last two days. Today we must be, in my opinion and in my firm conviction, as tolerant and tolerant as possible to one another. I now urge everyone to refrain from emotion and to make such deliberate decisions that will be made by all of Ukraine. You can see that now even the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, feeling the complexity of the situation and avoiding the conflict, has applied for his resignation. You're on the verge of forming a coalition government. The post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is essentially equivalent in the parliamentary republic to the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the new Constitution, in the event that the President of Ukraine resigns, assumes the responsibilities of the President of Ukraine before the election of the new President of Ukraine. That is why this position is one of the key in Ukraine and would now ask with the utmost responsibility, not hastyness, to deal with this too, too important in the conditions of the parliamentary republic, the personnel issue. There are a number of bills that will be supported by the faction of the Party of Regions. Especially with regard to the adoption of legislative acts that will ensure the real return and enforcement of the constitutional rules for the effective implementation of the requirements and norms of the parliamentary Republic. You've seen that the faction of the Party of the Regions voted yesterday, and the faction of the Company of Ukraine for issues that are important, and for those that can unite society. Today, I would ask all my colleagues to refrain from emotional statements and emotional impulses. We have a responsibility now to work and create conditions to stabilize the situation in the country. And create conditions and solutions that would be made by all of Ukraine. I support proposals for faction leaders to work on decisions today. And we guarantee you, the factions of the Party of the Regions will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u7	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u8	They will work around the clock to make decisions, and they will be present in the hall if they even vote on decisions that we will not support. We're in the hall, we're working, and that's what we're demonstrating that there's a parliament in Ukraine that represents the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u9	Thank you. Dragnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u10	Dear Society, since we now have to take responsibility as the highest legislator of our nation for the establishment of a system of things here in the country, the proposal is the following. First, in view of the fact that the Head of Parliament has filed a resignation application, we must satisfy the application first. And later, the procedure for electing the new leadership of the Ukrainian Parliament is a one-time thing. The other one. I think we all need to approve here together a statement, an appeal to all residents of Ukraine about the non-admissibility of the possible facts of looting, which may now and especially be in the capital of Ukraine. We need to provide those forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that have taken sides with the people, as well as active protestors of street patrols, primarily the capital and other cities of Ukraine, with the aim of not having any problems, excesses, looting in view of the fact that all this property, which could be destroyed, belongs to the people of Ukraine, is simply not necessary then to spend any effort to restore this property – it is very important. Next. The third step is to adopt the Ordinance on Restoration of the Constitutional System in Ukraine. The relevant draft act of the Ukrainian Parliament is ready, but it must be discussed together. A very important and correct thought was that our decisions should now be consensual in Parliament. We must vote together, as should the opposition, and the representatives of yesterday's authorities. The goal is: we have no right to divide the state, we are all statesmen here with you, we must all realize that there are those who are interested in dismembering Ukraine. Our task is to keep Ukraine territorially whole. The next steps, the next steps, will be discussed with you. These are also steps, but they should also be approved together, which should relate to the formation of a new composition of the government, the appointment of the Attorney General, the appointment of a new head of the Ukrainian Security Service. A provision for the approval of the President's Law on impeachment and the initiation of the President's impeachment procedure, as well as the appointment of a new date for the presidential election. If you count.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u11	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u12	If you count from this day and today you have to make that decision in three months, it's going to be about the last decade of May -- probably on May 25. And it is also overwhelming for us to adopt a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission. In addition, the next item, and if we can do it today, we need to start an immediate trial for judicial reform. So if we do these problems now, we're going to save Ukraine and we're going to count ahead. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u13	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u14	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Most of the ministers ’ responsibilities left their places and disappeared in an unknown direction. First of all, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zacharychenko, President Janukovic, is also unknown where. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the only legitimate authority in Ukraine today. [[Applause]] Friends! (Applause) That's too much. The tragic situation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should take full responsibility. I'm asking you, I'm going to call all the deputies, forget about yesterday's opposition, then we're going to figure out all the problems and relationships, then we're going to put all the dots on "and." Today, all factions, all deputies, must unite to protect their own country. Question number one for Parliament is the full restoration of power. This should be done immediately. First. Re-establishing the Constitution immediately. In the event that we do not find Yanukovich within hours, we need to vote on the decision we have to restore the Constitution. The decree is to restore the Constitution. First. Next. In order for all documents of the Supreme Council to be legitimate, to immediately choose the leadership of the Supreme Council, to vote by consensus. Now! Next, my friends, forming a government is a process that can take a few days. We don't have these days. Thus, it is urgent that the authorities be seized in order to have stability in the center and in the regions that a temporary government and a temporary minister of the interior should be placed in place. Now, now! And give us the opportunity to form a government. According to the Henprocuror, it is also a matter of restoring legality. I'm done. Therefore, fellow workers, there can be many additions. The Attorney General's office should also be in the first package. The first package should include other decrees, including the release of political prisoners, such as Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take a break for 20 minutes. Attention! For 20 minutes. To be appointed with the leadership of the Supreme Council, to be determined with the temporary responsibility of the Prime Minister and Minister of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u15	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u16	To vote on these issues and then to vote on another issue. I'm talking to all the deputies: friends, let's forget the fights! We are responsible for the country, for the East and the West, for the South and the North, for every life of a Ukrainian citizen. Consolidation! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u17	Heroim Slava! As long as the national MP Rudzkowski is speaking, the announcement will be made. A statement was made from the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kaletnik Igor Grigorovitch, on his resignation as the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Please turn on Mr. Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I am now addressing everyone, first of all, to ensure peace. I believe that honourable national deputies, we must vote today as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The other one. I believe that we must vote today not only on the executive head of the Ukrainian government, but, Your Honor, we must vote on the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Why? Because it's the Security Service that protects nuclear power plants, that's the first. Secondly, honourable members of the people, we must vote today on the Minister in charge of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And now I'm going to the public organizations that are on the street: you can't go to the National Bank! The question is very principled, we need to ensure the country's vitality, not just in the center and in Kiev. I believe that today, too, I understand the complexity of the situation, we need to vote on the decision to place the responsibilities of the heads of administration on the heads of district councils in all regions. This will remove the social tension, remove the opposition and ensure the functioning of the executive authorities on the ground. Also, of course, if it comes to the adoption of the President's Law on impeachment, it is prepared by me (4171) and can be voted today in the Supreme Council. One more thing, I think the Supreme Council should form all the executive authorities during the weekends so that the country can work properly on Monday. Today, the center of power is in the Supreme Council, and responsibility lies with everyone. I refer specifically to the political forces that initiated the political process in Ukraine. Today, for example, the Montenegrin District Council is under pressure to exercise influence on the head of the district council, who, two days ago, was authorized to commit mass murder, a member of the Party of the Regions, to be released from the post of head of the district council. He's an authoritative, decent man. We don't have to bring chaos, we have to make peace in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u19	Thank you. For information, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, pay attention! On February 18, in the streets of Kiev, in the Institute, a colleague of ours, Zaiko Yakovović, a first-calling MP, a writer, an artist, 74 years old, a patriot who was buried yesterday in the city of Žitomir. This is the life of our colleague, who started the Supreme Council and the history of Ukraine, should not pass. So I ask everyone to remember him now for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Let's have a word with you. Member of the Smiths.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues who are not on the Supreme Council, I would like to address everyone without the exception of the national MPs who are not here to come to the Supreme Council and we have legitimately formed all the organs of state power that will unite and preserve the unity of our state and bring peace to our state. Because you know that today the government authorities: the Cabinet of Ministers, the President's Office, the local administrations, the banks, and so on -- are not working. That's right. The uncontrollable situation that has so-called growth wave can lead to a very dangerous economic situation in our country. So I think, despite the fact that we have different perspectives, that we have different voters, but we are citizens of one country. And regardless of whether the deputy was going to Crimea or Volina or other regions, today there's one question -- the restoration of state power, the formation of new administrations, and the opportunity for people to say that peace will come soon. So any call for separatist positions that are going to be directed at the state wanting to be split, I don't think anyone is going to be able to do that. So the only way is to restore the constitutional situation in our country and the constitutional way through the Supreme Council. So once again, I turn from the Supreme Council rostrum to those colleagues who are not in this room. For everyone today is held accountable in the integrity, unity, and stability of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u23	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the speech of the People's Deputy of God. Mrs. Inno! God’s Word was proclaimed. Now, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention because right now I'm going to talk about the very important things that need to come up with an approach to today's decisions. Now we're in Kiev -- and it's like the whole of Ukraine is up and we're all together -- we have a big problem. As a resident of Kharkiv, I'm telling you there's a big problem. So all the decisions we make today must be based primarily on the task of sewing the country. West with the South, with the North, with the East. That's the main thing. And the state must see that in the leadership of the Supreme Council there will be both the West, and the East, and the Center. And I suggest that all human resources decisions on this issue are now approached by this algorithm. For if we, do not bring the Lord, are about to make a wrong decision, we may lose our ability to speak in such a way that we are understood in the South and the East. I can see it on my face that they heard me. And that's why I'm asking you, since we actually have two positions, three of us have the opportunity to design such a structure for the leadership of the Supreme Council. We have to make sure that there's a fundamental trust in the Supreme Council, and that's very important. The other one. I think, and I ask the deputies now to think about what we need to do in the Supreme Council, not in the Hall, but in the Supreme Council, the communication site between Maidan and the politician. Unfortunately, to this day, we do not see normal conversations with the Right Sector, with the Will, with the Civil Asset of Politicians. You don't have to do this in the hall, but you have to do a negotiating group with them to work out the agenda for today. It is very important to establish communication between the only legislative body that is legitimate today and Maidan. That's why I'm asking the factions to talk about this issue today and to make a decision on the establishment of a permanent negotiating area between the Midan Public Sector and Parliament as a legislative body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u25	Thank you. Here's to Vitalia Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u26	Dear citizens, to this day we must do everything we can to avoid opposition and violence in the state. To date, the Supreme Council has remained the only legitimate organ of government in Ukraine. That's why I'm talking to my colleagues. We have a very big responsibility to the country, to society. I want to address everyone, so it's very important to keep calm today, to keep it safe so that there aren't any violent incidents in society. I also want to turn to the leaders, to the officials, to carry out my duties, to continue to carry out my duties, because the state must function. We and the responsibility of all politicians to bring peace back to the country and to ensure that the state continues to function peacefully. Ignoring today's rallying demands has led to those events, the social and political crisis that the state is in today. Unfortunately, without feeling people, President Janukovic withdrew from his constitutional responsibilities. Today, he has left the capital. Millions of citizens see only one solution to today's situation: the appointment of presidential elections for the next year. So today we are taking the initiative to approve the Supreme Council's decision to resign from Viktor Yanukovitch, which will provide a legitimate basis for the appointment of presidential elections for the term. They are to take place with regard to the Constitution no later than May 25. Once again, I want to urge all Ukrainian citizens to remain calm and not to be provoked by inadequate actions. I'm sure in the near future we'll do everything we can to get the state back to normal, when the state will function, primarily for every citizen and everyone will be confident tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u27	Thank you. Here's to Arsenius Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u28	Dear national MPs, Ukraine! First of all, I want to address the members of the factions of the Party of Regions and Non-Factional. Come to the Parliamentary Hall. In Parliament, everyone is missed. We need 300 votes. The other one. Viktor Janukovic was obliged yesterday to sign the Laws on the Implementation of the Constitution in 2004. Failure to sign the law is a direct basis for the immediate resignation of Viktor Yanukovic. Third. We now need to urgently, stress, urgently and appeal to the faction leaders, all the representatives of the groups to gather in the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and make decisions, to make decisions on full responsibility for the state of affairs in the country. Therefore, I ask the leaders of the factions and representatives of the groups in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to gather immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, today President Janukovic has left the country and has in fact removed himself from the duties of President Yanukovic. No one knows where he is. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, in this case the Supreme Council is obliged to decide on the removal from office of President Yanukovic, in view of his inability to carry out his presidential duties. What is this impossibility? First of all, in the bloodshed, in the killing of Ukrainian citizens, in the divisions of society, in the deepening opposition. Janukovic and the gang that ran the country led the country to the pen. Our task with you is to stop this catastrophe. The only right decision that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to take today is to remove Yanukovich from office as President and to appoint presidential elections for the term. In accordance with the Constitution, presidential elections take place no later than 90 days after their appointment. I registered today a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of President of Ukraine's presidential election on April 27, 2014. In connection with the election assignment, the Supreme Council today is invited to decide to replace the Central Electoral Commission to ensure that these elections are conducted in a transparent manner, so that they cannot be falsified. In addition, my Order proposes to ban Yanukovitch Viktor Fedorovich from participating in the presidential elections for the next year as one that brought the country to collapse. This man has no right not only to run against the President, but he can no longer be put on gunfire for what he has done with the country, for killing Ukrainian citizens! I'm talking to the heads of law enforcement. Today, all power in Ukraine belongs to Parliament, so you are obliged to comply with Parliament’s decisions, and you do not have to comply with the decisions of the tyrant, murderers, dictator Yanukovic. Anyone who implements Yanukovic’s decision assumes responsibility for the shed blood of Ukrainian citizens. Majdan, the Supreme Council will not leave until decisions are made on Yanukovic's resignation and the situation in Ukraine is stabilized. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u31	Thank you. Please turn on Stepan Kubi's microphone with information.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u32	Dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainian people! I now address the members of the Supreme Council. All statements from this rostrum must be stable and calm. You know, when we talk about being responsible for power and the situation in the country, we need to be calm. Tonight, you know, a lot of people who are self-defense in Kiev, in Kharkiv, in the Julians, in Borispol take arms. When we press opposition, we don't perform a function of peaceful, balanced. There are no politicians here today, we are people, we are Christians, and we must now balance the peaceful situation here in the Supreme Council. Come on, let's all go to church, especially when we're at the holidays to be seen by the cameras, there's others. We must forget all of this and become Christians first of all, for only God and Ukraine can preserve Ukraine’s unity today. The other one. We have a moral default today and we have a political default today. Our obligation is to prevent an economic default. Euphoria will pass, the opposition will pass, we need to stabilize the work of all authorities today. There are pensioners, there are students, there are people who go to pay, there are finances, there are treasury, there are banks -- that's all. Come on, come on, 300 billion have been entrusted to our investors to make the country function. Third, what I want to say is I'm addressing everyone. 100 more lives and 30, 130 more lives today, about, throughout the period, have been shed and given blood, called heavenly angels. Yesterday 36 patriots of Ukraine were buried in Maidan. I want those people who have given their lives to make the balance of power pass here in Parliament, one minute of silence to honor all those who have died, all of them, I repeat, and those who will be protected today. Emotions don't last long. Please remain silent for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u33	Thank you. And two more literal points. When the burial procession is under way and when people go to heaven, these heavenly angels, believe me, are deeply entrenched, we must forgive and hear one another; we need no conflict. Because many weapons are to be weighed on the street and today in Parliament. And the rest. I turn to churches, to church leaders of all levels of both state and to all priests in the villages, in the cities, to carry out appropriate work and sermons in churches, outside churches. Only today is the church, the public leaders in every region, in every city, there are those who can balance us, calm us down. We need to understand today and, above all, think about tomorrow. And it is only today that the church, and only today, leaders of public opinion can maintain the unity of Ukraine. God and Ukraine are the main values. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the heavenly angels!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u34	Thank you. They ask for the word of Volodymyr Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u35	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I fully support all the speeches and calls that have been made here regarding the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine must assume full responsibility. But it is not just a matter of making practical decisions. I sincerely welcome the fact that today we are in agreement that our decisions should not split Ukraine apart, because attempts to split it apart, to dispel people, they have room. And we need to be aware that these attempts will increase. We must do everything we can to prevent others from interfering with the conflict in Ukraine in our own interests. And then, dear colleagues, today we have to make a decision about the appointment of a minister of the interior, especially that there are our colleagues here who are first perceived in the law enforcement system, secondly, what principles they have and who have enormous experience, so that the militia, all law enforcement agencies, can begin to carry out their functions and powers within and in a manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. We need to resolve the Ukrainian Security Service issue today, we need to resolve the issue of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, we need to approach the formation of the government today and at the same time make other decisions, because there are no authorities in Ukraine other than the Supreme Council. But if she does not make a decision, there will be no Supreme Council of Ukraine. People won't wait. Then we need to ask questions about the adoption of the decree on the restoration of the constitutional system. And in this provision, to write: In the event that the law is not signed, it automatically takes action that will provide an opportunity to solve all problems in Ukraine. I call on all our colleagues from all the factions, let's demonstrate what we are really responsible for the situation in Ukraine. Let's make some informed decisions that will not break Ukraine, but rather bring us together before we can resolve the question of the completion of the campaign from the election of the President of Ukraine. For this time we need to make peace, then there will be other realities. And I'm not excluding, there's going to be both a reformation and a government, and actually maybe the configuration will change. But the working Supreme Council will be preserved, and most importantly, Ukraine will be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u36	Thank you. As long as the next speaker is present, I will, with your permission, read out the announcements made by the national MPs. In accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volkov Alexander Mihajlovich, Dudka Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Šerbán Artem Volodymyrovich, Žerbník Viktor Mikolajovich, Mirni Ivan Mikolajovich, Vasilev Gennaday Andriyovich and Mhitaryan Nver Mnatzakanovic, Popescu Ivan Vasilovich submitted their statements on the withdrawal of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, let's build our next job next, given that we have two more speakers who signed up, and the rest of us will log into the "Race" electronic system to make it easier for me. And now I'm asking Mr. Miserable, then Kirilenko, and then we'll sign up to make it easier to hold a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies! I would now like to address all my former colleagues, the government officials of Ukraine. It's a very large army of citizens. You, each of you, were sworn in by a civil servant. I also want to contact local self - government officials, who are also equal to government officials. Dear colleagues, you can see the situation in the country right now. You see now that the Supreme Council understands what needs to be done, but it takes some time. Perhaps today and tomorrow the Supreme Council will make all the necessary decisions. I turn to the words of an oath that each of the civil servants has signed that he is under obligation to serve the people of Ukraine. I ask you right now, despite the fact that many ministers are not on their working months, to remind you that they are political persons and have political responsibilities. A senior official in each central authority is the head of the apparatus. I call on my former colleagues, the deputy ministers, the heads of the apparatus, now you have a personal responsibility to keep the central authorities in charge, to carry out their functions, and you must now bear full responsibility as the highest officials. Please secure a constitutional system, ensure peace, and ensure that the people of Ukraine are not divided into two parts. I ask everyone not to wait for the Supreme Council to make all the necessary decisions, but for everyone in their place of work to exercise their authority. I also go to the judicial corps, to the police, to respectable colleagues, not all -- marshals, not all -- ministers, not all -- generals, please work for your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u38	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to Kirilenko Viacheslava.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u39	Viacheslav Kirilenko is a Ukrainian citizen. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First. All MPs who still have a conscience and who were part of the prevailing environment should now come to Parliament and carry out their duties. The Supreme Council works in a state-of-the-art plenary. I would like to inform such deputies that the passage to Parliament is absolutely free and peaceful and is being carried out jointly by the State Protection Authority and the self-defence of Maidan in cooperation. There are no successes, images, or other incidents in the Supreme Council. We are all interested in making the country’s highest legislative body as peaceful and stable as possible. The other one. Deputy ministers, executives, first deputies, and the entire administration of ministries, who feel obliged to work in the country, must now go to work. Those officials who are not afraid to carry out their duties, who understand what they are working for, must now come to the government's bed and wait for further instructions from the higher legislative body, Parliament. It is your duty, my lords of the ministries, deputy officers, officials. Come here, you may need to carry out your duties. Third. The President of Ukraine violated all the arrangements he made yesterday in the presence of the international community. Evidently, he did not intend to sign the agreement that was signed yesterday. In fact, he escaped by running to Harkov -- and by doing so, he actually resigned. Therefore, it is not necessary to wait for Yanukovich’s legal claim to resign. He's an irresponsible man, he won't be. But the whole country clearly understood that by running to Harkov Yanukovic de facto, he had testified to his resignation. Parliament should then today elect the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then adopt a decree to restore the constitutional order under the Constitution in 2004. This decision will be signed by the newly elected Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After that, Parliament is obliged to elect a new minister of the interior, a minister of defense, a head of the Ukrainian Security Service, a general prosecutor of Ukraine, and other officials in need today. It is our responsibility to do so. And the last. All those who think that power and plunder can be preserved at the cost of the division of Ukraine are deeply mistaken, and they will be responsible for their crimes. Ukraine has new independence – 23 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u40	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u41	And it's not that easy for political criminals to face Ukrainians' heads against Ukrainians right now. Our country is the only country that has no separatist moods, and artificial cultivation of these moods will end up a prison for those who cultivate them. All district council leaders, officials of the government must understand: the capital of Ukraine is Kiev and only Kiev, the higher legislative body of Ukraine is the Supreme Council, there are over 250 national deputies in the hall, and they come. All legislative decisions that are responsible and necessary for the country will be adopted today. In 2-3 days, the country will start working normally, and we will begin preparations for President of Ukraine's presidential election. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Anyone who wishes to speak, please sign up for the speech. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Popescu. Please turn on the microphone. You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Yes. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u44	Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! Now we all need to gather in the walls of the Supreme Council, because what's happening in the country, and the panic that's starting, we need to stop it first. Secondly, we need to go to all the churches so that they can turn to their laity, so that they don't go out on actions that can lead to violence. But any decisions here in the Supreme Council must be made in such a way that no one can question our decision to act legitimately. So I ask all decisions to discuss with representatives of all factions. Thank you for your attention. And you don't have to throw the country into disunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u46	Thank you. Here's to Martinyuk Leonty Svetoslavovich. Please turn on Illenko Andria's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! If anyone else does not know, I will inform you that I have just received a message that access is already free. That's where people come in. There's no Janukovic anymore, the security guard is missing all those willing to go to Medjugorje, and now the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association is registering a decision in the Supreme Council to hand over. To return the State to the State. And after that, I think we'll decide what to do. Perhaps it will be an orphanage for children, perhaps some other useful thing. But I think it will be a symbol of the cleansing of Ukraine from corruption. Dear colleagues, you know, on the one hand, it is very good that the Ukrainian Parliament in the last days has become similar, indeed, to Parliament and has begun to make decisions for the Ukrainian people. But it is very bad that this began only after hundreds of people were killed. That's very bad. This means that our society is very expensive and has paid a great price to be heard by the deputies. And you know, there's still a lot of people now who are called the Ukrainian People's Deputies, but which, for some reason or other, probably primarily because of the banal fear they don't want to come to the Supreme Council right now and make the necessary decisions for the state. I want to talk to them. Now is the time when political ambitions, plans for the future, political careers, other moments could be discussed. Today, there is only one thing — the preservation of Ukraine, the preservation of the state. Today all the people who have sworn and promised to do the will of the Ukrainian people must be here and they must make the decisions that will save our country. We realize that there is really no separatism in Ukraine. Ukraine is the only one, and if there are those who are going to try artificially, inspired outside to separate, these people will be punished, I'm sure, by law. These people need to be aware of the responsibility they can take. So today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should assume the task of bringing the country out of this deadlock, which Janukovic led it into, forming legitimate authorities, forming, taking full responsibility and starting the process of creating a new Ukraine. Today, once again, all the national MPs who are not here are obliged to come here and participate in this process. If you don't do this, you're not national MPs, and you're not Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Announcement. According to part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the People's Deputies, Melniczuk Larissa Yuriyovna and Katsuba Sergey Volodymyrovich, filed a statement on the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please turn on the microphone to the National MP Martinyuk. Leontius Svetoslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u50	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u51	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honourable national MPs, honourable Ukrainians, in the situation that we are now facing when mass reports of escape abroad from yesterday's high-ranking, critical to national security is to prevent those criminals from escaping justice in the heathen who have committed crimes against the people of Ukraine since the beginning of the protests on November 30th. Then, I think it's necessary to give the necessary instructions to the administrations and authorities that are still functional and whose task is to protect the state border and to ensure public safety, to detain those high-level workers. Those who held responsible positions in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in bodies that were involved in the creation of illegal force formations that terrorized civilians. And to establish a location now for the commanders of the special units of internal forces who were in the center of the capital and who were using firearms against civilians. If their whereabouts are to be identified, immediate steps should be taken to bring them to the Attorney General’s Office, where they should all be immediately questioned and to determine all circumstances, if there is one Deputy Attorney General in his place of employment, warrants should be issued for their arrest and custody. Until they have fled beyond Ukraine, we are well aware that in order to restore justice, we need a full legal trial of criminals both in pursuits and without the pursuits that have broken Ukraine. When we talk about the need for the second Nuremberg, we need to make sure that no one slips away from real Ukrainian justice. Not from selling courts that have terrorized Ukrainians in recent years, not from selling prosecutors who turned justice into a farce, but from the real justice of tomorrow. So I ask, if we have the opportunity, to give the Supreme Council's apparatus the necessary instructions so that at least one valid deputy attorney general who is at least on the job and informed about the situation in this direction with regard to the possible detention of criminals in pursuit. And all the deputies, in fact, the power ministries, I think we should call on the Supreme Council today to inform the people of Ukraine about the possibility of resolving this issue. I mean, the IMF, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, the State Border Service, first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, before Schweik's word, "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u53	National Deputy of Switzerland Igor, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Kharkushkin. Society, today we have a situation where the Harks are trying to make a new failed North Londoner. I thank those of our countrymen who are currently present in this room, representing Kharkishka, regardless of our differing views and positions. Today's task is one thing -- it's the preservation of the entire Ukrainian state. Next. Regarding the activities of law enforcement agencies. There are now mass reports of the movement of internal service patrols to the side of those citizens who have gone out to protect their country. In particular, 247 police officers from Kharkiv, who were in Kiev, stated that they were willing to take sides with protestors on the side of Ukrainian citizens. I would like to take part in addressing those officers who are leading these units, and today we need to patrol the streets of Kiev, because in Kharkiv, Kiev, and Marien Park, we have already found a huge amount of equipment that can now be made by numerous pogroms. The preservation of the Ukrainian state and the control and order of the streets is our common task. At this time, we can say that the process that was trying to run in Kharkiv, and according to previous information, Janukovic is now in Kharkiv, maybe this information will be confirmed or corrected, this process has no right to go out and become some kind of split movement. The decision-making centre is in the capital and the central body is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next and last. We now voted yesterday by a constitutional majority in favour of returning to the 2004 Constitution. In the event that the current current President of Ukraine, formally but justly, does not sign these changes, such changes will be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, under the orders of the newly elected head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in an official printed edition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole legitimate organ of the State. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u54	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u55	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! I want to address not only as a deputy, but as a former city head, not only personally, but also from fellow city heads, and Saldjdo, and Ljubonka, Kartashova, to rural, rural and urban heads, who have been elected by the election. You and I, who worked for a longer time, experienced this situation in 2004, in 2005. And the very activities of rural, rural, and urban heads depended very much on ensuring the vitality of the population. We're talking to you, and now that you're working on urban agriculture to provide electricity, water, gas supply, it's been warm in your homes -- it's totally up to you. And the second. Today we hear talk about the so-called federalization of Ukraine. I am confident that it is impossible to allow it, and the duty of the Supreme Council to do its utmost to ensure that local self - government develops and becomes what it should be in the European state. On the other hand, the "For Local Self-Government" group, the interfractional union created by the Supreme Council, will work, and I'm sure it's a complete alternative to the Ukrainian federalization. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u56	Thank you. Please give the word to Korniychuku. Tchacouk. Yes, I'm sorry, Tchacouk. Unmerciful, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u57	Sergey Averchenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Dear citizens, dear colleagues, we made a big mistake three years ago because a man was elected President of Ukraine who does not even now realize his responsibility to the whole country and to every citizen of Ukraine. The President is the father of the nation. Please tell me, what kind of father is he if he's killing his own children? On November 30, someone behind his back gave this criminal order. But he was to come in the morning, kneel down, kiss the blood of the innocent victims of the earth, apologize to all, and immediately punish all those guilty of the crime. Instead, he unleashed an even more bloody war, a war against his own people, hundreds of dead, thousands of injured and injured our fellow citizens, and patriots from other lands who came to defend Ukraine. Please tell me, can this person represent the interests of the Ukrainian people? Who is he, and who is the Ukrainian people? Therefore, we demand the immediate resignation of President Yanukovic, and his future fate must be decided by the investigation and the court. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u58	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Korniychuk. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy of Hinzi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u59	Jaroslav Hinka, impact faction. Deep compassion for the families of the dead. Everlasting memory of heroes. This is a heavy loss for all of us, for Ukraine and the Ukrainians. As head of the district organization, I want to say that I am not taking responsibility for the deaths of the Levites and the inhabitants of the area, because like other colleagues, I have urged people to come to Midan. I'm sorry about those Bs who lost their loved ones, it's clear that those excuses are probably worthless, but I want to say that many of those people who died, I knew personally. Many of them were not even on the barricades, they were ensuring the vitality of Maidan, one of whom was killed by a sniper when the boy was drinking tea near the tent. I was talking to them and they were talking about one thing, and we're not just standing here to change the power to have others come to power, the same. Change in their faces doesn't work, and we don't. I went to Midan to change the state and to form new principles of the system of government. Today we are at the threshold of the formation of a new government, the leadership of the Supreme Council, the changes in the system of electoral legislation and other bills that will be adopted in that Council. I'm asking the only colleagues, let's remember our promise, everything has to be done clearly, openly, I'm against any culinary arrangements, I'm against killing people for just changing faces. We need to build a new, new foundation for building a new, high-quality democratic European state, where transparency is at the heart of this. So I urge -- no separate culinary arrangements, everything has to be transparent, and according to our agreements with Maidan, everything has to be agreed with the Maidan Council. This is very important. I would also like to point out that the constitutional right of the Supreme Council to dissolve district and city councils. Today, there is a threat of secession and division. Perhaps we can think of at least reminding the district councils where the gatherings are currently taking place, and I am talking about the Kharkiv region and the councils that are going there, that we can dissolve those councils. And I would also like to remind you that we guaranteed the rehabilitation and renewal of those state officials and those law enforcement officials who took sides with the people, let's not forget that. Because there were decent people among them who took sides and did not obey criminal orders. We don't have to forget a last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u60	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy Orphan Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u61	Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u62	Please turn on Irina Farion's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u63	Dear colleagues! 130 lives are too high a price to be able to feel confident today and to understand that we will quickly have this perspective that Ukrainian society needs and needs. 130 deaths are high demands for you and me to form different branches of government. However, the cross - line that should bind all these branches of power is the construction of an exclusively national Ukrainian state. We don't just need a state to hold someone's interest. We've seen those interests in 20 years. What happened now is not a political crisis, it's not a state crisis. It's a humanitarian disaster. Why did the humanitarian disaster take place? Because demoralization in all the realms of political life, business life, education became a rule and a norm. The whole humanitarian problem that was in our country was completely and completely on its side. We've materialized into this. To such a state that most societies have become simply consumers. However, when the people went out to Midan, they lifted up from their midst such a deep spiritual power that led to the cleansing of much of our society. The mass exodus now from the Party of the Regions of its members, I hope, will testify not to a situational adaptation, not to hypocrisy, not to pharisaism, not to fear, not to all these things, which have to do with the same notion of immorality, but to rethinking values, because every death before our eyes today is ringing into our hearts. Yesterday we could see Maidan and Majdan's reaction to all of us. So if we're going to be the focus of Ukrainian society today, we really have to change the quality of society. Can it be changed without changing itself without changing the world’s world view? So the foundation of the state that we are taking with you today should be its greatness the national idea, because it is the one that is the thread that is sewn.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u64	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u65	. It's the one that's going to stitch the whole country. And you don't have to invent anything. People all over the country testified. The slogan: "Glory to Ukraine!" It was the whole state, and it was the gang's motto. "Glory!" And "A Ukraine hasn't died yet!" He went to our consciousness for over 150 years and came. So the spiritual foundation for building a new state is under our feet. We stand, stand, and build the real temple of the Ukrainian world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u66	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Tomenko. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, when. While our colleagues are working on drafts, we should also think about a few basic things. So far, unfortunately, our warnings and warnings to the Ukrainian Security Service have not affected separatist ideologists, I mean, Kerniss Gennady Adolfovich and Dobkin Mikhail Markovich. And today, delegates from south and east of Ukraine, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, are meeting in Kharkiv for the moment. Once again, I wanted to officially refer to these separatist leaders, provided that according to the current legislation, their actions fall under the relevant articles of the Criminal Code. And I would like to warn them again before the convention begins, for there are 40 minutes left before the convention or 50 if. At 12 he planned that if the meeting was to begin and opened at the table, that this part of Ukraine would position itself as the subject of the federation or that it would be possible threats to territorial integrity, I think we should adopt a decision not only on the dismissal of the people concerned, but on the discovery of a criminal case and the arrest of those who violate territorial integrity. Among other things, I must say that the Crimean deputies showed wisdom and balance yesterday, which should be commended. They didn't hold the next session -- so they stopped talking about the possible problems of Crimea. Second position, colleagues to talk about, and a lot of friends here are calling me as we get out of the situation if we don't find Yanukovich in the next few days or a few hours, in the Bill on Julia Timoshenko. The solution is one, and it is clear that once we elect the Supreme Council and the President of the Supreme Council in the absence of the President, we define a special group of people authorized by the Supreme Council to go to Kharkiv and ensure the implementation of the Law on Liberation and Decriminalization concerning Timoshenko, which will be valid, I hope, today, as soon as possible tomorrow morning. I think we should mention in part our colleagues against whom the authorities have uncovered criminal cases that are located abroad or elsewhere. We need to write down this coordinate system. I'm talking about our colleagues: Andria School, Mikhail Zyjinova, others who actively resisted this criminal regime and stayed abroad today. They need to understand that we will not forget them. And the third position. I think we need to hold district, district, city councils in the very near future. They alone today have the legitimate right to ensure order in the regions. I think we'll do it quietly. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u68	Thank you. Here's to the speech of the People's Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs, those who have taken the liberty of coming today. You will indeed be those to whom the Ukrainian people will be proud. And, Ukraine, which is watching us today, listens intently, and what we will do today to save Ukraine. But I'll say that yesterday, when I was in Midan, I was moved to tears, as probably a lot of you, when I saw the coffin follow the coffin, carrying it, and when the priests of those young boys who had fallen for the future of Ukraine sang it. For her integrity, for the future of our children, grandchildren. And believe me, today we shouldn't talk about whether we're green, blue, white, red, left, right. We today need to understand that we are all Ukrainians, regardless of their origins, from religion. If we care about tomorrow, the decisions that will be made in this room will be beneficial, for there are still many who have not calmed down. One of them has already been mentioned here. Well, the great Dobkin politician, who today, yesterday, is now gathering a meeting in 15 minutes. But even though I know it's not Odessa or Dnipropetrovsk or Zaporozhye, nobody's going. He'll probably talk to himself. But if we still have the Security Service, I'm calling her manager. Today, this person should not just be released but be put away. We're going to release her all in this room, but he has to be responsible for calling for murder, for calling for secession, for separating some part of Ukraine. Because we are here today the pillars of our nation. And I wish that we would now make the decisions that the people are waiting for. Because Maidan's pulse isn't just in Kiev, he's really pulsating with a hot spirit. This is the ventriloquist Majdan, the Majdan who created the new Ukraine. But today, people all over Ukraine are expecting decisions from us, strategic decisions, and I believe we're not going to fight here, we're going to fight for jobs or anything. We must realize that Ukraine is above all else. And may the Lord God help us to do so. Praise our heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u70	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian brothers and sisters, dear fellow countrymen! All those who are now involved in the political process, who consider themselves to be politicians in this room or outside this room, I would like to stress that the most important feature of politics is responsibility. Clearly, politics provides for a dose, perhaps significant, of bravadas, of piazzars, of self - piazzars, of theatricals. But that is clearly something to be forgotten. Today, each step and every action must be weighed. Both in this room and outside the hall. I think for a while today we have to forget the difference between what is different in the ideologies of nationalism, liberalism, social democracy, and others. But everyone has to think about the categories of statehood and patriotism. I urge my colleagues in this room to do so today. I call on everyone who is outside this room and who is involved in the political process to be as careful as possible. I urge you not to manage today, who better to build a phrase, who will most strongly call for radical action, but, above all, that today is not the time to destroy, today is the time to build. And the defense of God, to become blind writers in a foreign game of hateful neighbors. Today, I call upon all my brothers from all nationalistic backgrounds, the UN-Bender, milling, UNA-UNSO, the Stéphane Bender Tribe, to call on fellow citizens from other social organizations. Today it is time to go out where the most people are and everywhere to demonstrate their state position. Remember, though, that if we always rely on our actions to remember our grandparents, UN soldiers, and UPA, they wanted the Ukrainian state, they gained it. We don't have to lose, but we have to build it. I today call on the responsibility of all local leaders, especially those who are decent people. It is not easy for you today, you are under the pressure of populism and under the pressure of political bravado and even, let’s say, Do not give in to it, understand that you must keep your position at this time. Today is a very difficult time to build a staff policy. Convinced that it must be approached by the principles of patriotism and that everyone should care, in fact, for the prosperity of the state, not for their own pockets on the grounds of professionalism, because today there are cases where people, let's say, do not have any idea, but they want to run the militia or the BSS in places. Similarly, I urge everyone to remember that a person can be valued for what he says today and who he was yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u72	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u73	And the last. Dear friends, in this room and outside this room, those 16 brothers of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, and not only them, but all those who put their lives and gave their blood, shed their blood on the sacred Ukrainian land, died not for chaos, not for disintegration, not for the disintegration of Ukraine and the loss of the Ukrainian state, they died for a powerful, strong state, a state built on the basis of social and national justice. So everyone who remembers their death, who remembers their blood, remember what they fought for. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u74	Thank you. P I'm talking to the people's representative of Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u75	Praise Jesus Christ! And glory to Ukraine! Honorable fellow MPs, dear Ukrainians, so the question is first and foremost, the question of impeachment by Yanukovic. It should take place in accordance with our Rules, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 171 with the explicit wording "for treason". There can be no other formulation. Therefore, it is overwhelming for all today to understand that this man has committed treason. In fact, even those guards who remained in Medjugorje who say that they had been betrayed by Yanukovic speak of this. The second, the most beautiful. I'm calling on the members of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Guys, you're out of the faction today, you have to get out of the party today, and there's blood on the flag. The blood of innocent people, including the blood of three drug addicts from my constituency, whose funerals will take place these days. This is Bogdan Wade, this is Oleg Usnevich, this is Joseph the Pishnik. These are the people who laid down their lives like the rest of the heavenly hundred who died in Midan. And, my friends, I just got off the phone with the former Minister of Health, Yuri Polachenko. What's been going on in the hospitals of Kiev for decades now -- you haven't seen Ukrainians in decades -- things like this haven't happened here in a long time. When people lie with no arms, no legs, no eyes, who are permanently disabled. And so for the newly elected power, the question for the newly elected President should be to assign the posthumous title of the Hero of Ukraine to those national defenders, more loyally, to those national heroes who are already identified by the national heroes of Ukraine who died and gave their lives. And the third, the second, the second. We have 225 majors in this room. I'm addressing you Ukrainians, go home to them, go to their offices, go to them where they are now, bring them here to this room, bring them to us so that we can decide for you, Ukrainians, voters. If they don't come here, we'll do anything. In order to comply with this Regulation, Article 222, 223 should be removed from their mandates and to do everything for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u76	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u77	They were not people’s chosen ones. That's why I'm addressing you, Ukrainians! Focus your efforts on those for whom you voted. Everlasting memory of those who died! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u78	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u79	The noble people of Ukraine! Self-defense fighters! Those who spent their hard months in the history of Ukraine on Maidan! Residents of Donbas! Underlining, the residents of Donbas, with whom we have opened our eyes to the theft of the active regime! It is very difficult to forgive that genocide against the Ukrainian people, which has been implemented by the Yanukovic regime, and it will not be forgiven. Those who have witnessed crimes, murders that have lost their brothers will never forgive this regime, and will have no place in any history of the new history of Ukraine. The self-defence and all those who are willing to support the democratic progress of the new government, the new President and the new power in Ukraine must become a national anti-corruption guard and free Ukraine from bribe judges, oligarchs and all those who impede the democratic development of our independent state! I urge the people of Poltava to do their utmost to regain the power of the people as soon as possible! The city’s head, who actually did everything he could yesterday to tear down today’s town council meeting and try to continue to manipulate public opinion, must leave immediately. Its place is to be occupied by a real city patriot. Similarly, we must take control of the progress of things in Poland. The District Council should form a majority, the elected head from the opposition, and the implementation should continue to implement the policy of stabilizing matters in Poltavian society. I want to talk to those who continue to engage in robbery. In particular, yesterday, an attack was carried out on my reception in Kirovgrad. Yesterday, there were attacks aimed at the murder of my assistants. I have information that all of this is being done under the cover of Vice-President Sergey Laryn. I urge the Chief of Internal Affairs in the Kirovograd area to do everything immediately to restore order in the city. To protect my assistant, to protect the vanguard of Euromidan in the city of Kirovograd, otherwise the MPs from the hit will come immediately and he will answer at all times with the rigour of revolutionary time. I'm going to the head of the B.B.I. with a call. Once we know the characters will take steps toward separatism, we will be arrested immediately! Arrest and stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u80	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u81	The Separatist Festival in Kharkiv and Crimea! Donbas and Crimea need to talk about economics and new jobs. Because the current authorities have left the miners, and they spend their money not on upgrading the mines, so that my miners will be killed, but on bribes of the aunts and fuelling buses to bring false anti-fields. And the last. I address all Ukrainians: We need unity more than ever! On Ukraine’s body, many wounds must be beaten with bandages of unity and conscience, the responsibility for the future of our country. We don't have to split Ukraine! Do not give in to counterfeiting, inciting! We have the only state, we have the only mother in Ukraine, and we are responsible for her future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u82	Thank you. Here's to National Deputy Shevchenka Alexander Oxentoyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! Today, very important issues are being resolved in our Parliamentary Hall. I think we should pay attention not only to the formation of a temporary government, a speaker, and so on and so forth. We should pay attention to the people's wishes and, in particular, I would like to draw your attention to the very national rightfulness that has been shown in the struggle for my rights. What is the key to this rightfulness? In fact, the people require the creation of an ideal state, that is, where the rights and freedoms of citizens are guaranteed, but where social and national justice is guaranteed. Hence, I think it is Parliament’s duty to adopt laws that would legitimize these new forms of government that are manifest today in Ukraine, namely, to legitimize the existence of a people’s age, to legitimize the existence of national councils, to legitimize the existence of self - defense. In addition, we need to legitimize other broad rights of the community. The Freedom faction has drafted a bill that provides for all of this and, in particular, the formation of a budget, including a budget, which is to be formed from below to the mountain. We mean that this is done to ensure, above all, social rights. We cannot ignore the Constitution, which foresees that health care in Ukraine is free, but look how many years ago the Supreme Council has failed to comply with this constitutional norm, ignoring it, even though certain funds are being allocated, but our citizens are forced to go and buy the medicine at their expense and so forth. So why is there one thing on paper and one thing really different? They say where to take the money? I think there will be people among our oligarchs who not only exercise their rights but also have a responsibility. In particular, it is an obligation to help Ukraine in this troubled and difficult time. I would recommend that they return capital from abroad, invest in the economy of Ukraine and give impetus to the development of the national economy and, above all, social justice. I also mean what needs to be done with national justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u84	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u85	It's about to be decided, but today there's an urgent formalization, a legal formulation of that initiative that goes down the national masses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u86	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u87	Deputies! Brothers and sisters in Ukraine! The death of our heroes obliges all of us today to be very intelligent and yet very determined, yet very resilient, when necessary, and at the same time very disciplined and organized. This is what it takes all the people's deputies today, the Supreme Council, who became the first Supreme Council in many and many years, is it possible that today, throughout the history of history, we should show ourselves whether we deserve to be that Supreme Council really? Similarly, society must show today whether we are all on these sacrifices, whether we have all learned to be different in this blood. Because just as politicians are responsible for our previous actions and our sins, and for every representative of society, every structural unit of Ukrainian society has this responsibility. At this time, when there is a move in Kharkiv today, which may be a tool for the destruction of the Ukrainian state, for a large number of victims, I turn to my former colleague as the former head of the Lviv District Council, to the person I know, Mr. Sergio Czernov, who is the head of the Kharkiv District Council and at the same time the head of the Association of Local Councils, District and District Councils, to be wise and to understand this responsibility today. I want to remind you how together we thought about how to provide local self-government with real authority. And I wanted to hope that those words and our counsel were sincere, for in the future Ukrainian state and in the future constitutional process, there is certainly a real, real local self - government that will save the situation in our communities today. I also want to remind and thank you that in 2012 he gave the delegation from Kharkiv to Salina of the Old Samobrian region, and together we honored the victims of the Bolshevik repression, together. Ukrainians from Lviv, Frankivsk, Poles from Poland, and a delegation from Kharkiv who understood us very well in the trouble that was then in 1941. And I think that the trouble that we might have now too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u89	Kharkiv, Lviv, Kiev. I hope that the intentions of all those who today write statements from the faction of the Party of Regions, and on the other hand, the political will not now be ambitions, not future positions, saving Ukraine, no more sacrifice, no more sacrifice. Because among those dead are Sergey Didic, deputy of the Gordenkow District Council, who showed me the river Dniester in the 2010 and 2011 rafts, and we planned to make the next one a Dniestro this year. He showed wonderful sights. And now he's shown us all another way. Eternal glory to the heroes! The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u90	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Kurenny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I'd like, first of all, to calm everyone here, all the people in this room, all the people watching us, listening. There will be no division of Ukraine. The issue of Ukraine’s daytime division is not on the table. All they're talking about today is a mythical split between Ukraine and speculation in order to win out the political future. I want to address the Odessa as my own, and I want to turn to the Odessa. No powerlessness, no frenzy. Odessa and the Odessa region have always been, exist and will be, an inalienable territory of the State of Ukraine. Yes, there have been periods, not only of this historical period, but also of others, when temporary formations have come to power, have taken hold of it, used it and have undoubtedly damaged our region and all regions of Ukraine. This time is running out. I call on the Supreme Council, with full responsibility, to form not only all the authorities of the country today, but also to halt the chaos of possible and some powerlessness in the regions, to form the necessary bodies to ensure the vitality of all regions of Ukraine without exception. And today there's information that, for example, in Odessa in the Public Prosecutor's Office, some criminal cases are being burned in the courts, something is being carried out. I appeal to all regional heads of the Offices of the Interior, the Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, to carry out their direct duties in accordance with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. There is a parliament in Ukraine and it will ensure the continuity of the legitimate constitutional process. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u92	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u93	Glory to Ukraine! Society, we all have grief and regret for our brothers. He knew five brothers personally because he and his fellow members of the People's Deputies of the Freedom faction was in charge of the Liberty Palace, the Yellow Palace. They're brothers from Hmelnicki, they're brothers from Volini, and that's Sergei Didic, with whom we had almost every night in the night shifts. And you know what? There were no words in those discussions about positions; there were no words in those discussions about who would be the Prime Minister, who would be the President, who would be the minister. There was one question in these discussions: When are we going to change fundamentally the Ukrainian state? And together we rejoiced that throughout Ukraine the slogan "Glory to Ukraine!'The glory of the nation!", "Ukraine is above all!" They're in control. And that's why we have to remember that we're building a national state, and only when we build a single national state where there's Ukrainian haircut, then we're not going to have a new Yanukovite and we're not going to have a new calling that will destroy Ukrainians again on the streets of our cities, villages and villages. Today, we must also say that people demand radical changes, peoples, illustrations. And how can we do this in the simplest way? This is the election of the judges, this is the illustration. This is an opportunity to recall the chief of the district police department -- this is a folk illustration. This is an opportunity for us to choose our authority today. We don't need district and district government administrations, we need to choose the MP Corps, and we need this MP Corps to form into executive committees. If we don't do this today, if we don't make radical changes in our country, those deaths of our freedom brothers will not only be futile. So, society, we have a big job ahead of us. We have a job in front of us for Ukraine and for the Ukrainians. I believe that today, more than ever, with grief and grief for our brothers, we will preserve our minds and coldness in our actions. For our Ukrainian State to become a great, independent, ecumenical and independent state not only by word but by content. And, God, we have the wisdom to build a great Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u94	May I have the floor of the people's deputies, Rosenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u95	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Of course, after three months of oppression, after three months of social crisis in Ukraine, after hundreds of victims who have been put on the altar of this fight by today’s authorities may not speak calmly from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is also very difficult today to encourage all of society to rest after the tragic events that we all and all of Ukraine have experienced today. But I certainly support the absolute majority of the speakers here, that it is we, the Ukrainian national MPs, who have to guarantee peace and peace in our country, that we, the Ukrainian people's deputies, today have to make it clear that there should be no more bloodshed in Ukraine, that peace and peace should gradually be established in Ukraine, that there should be a legitimate and right authority that will work for the Ukrainian people, not for its own self-reliance, but for the Ukrainian people, that from the power of Ukraine, from the power of the judiciary, from the government of Ukraine, from the government of Ukraine, that will be freed all those who are involved in the corruption, to the death of people, all those who have brought Ukraine into this crisis, to the death of their own idleness or activity. And today we have to take responsibility here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is why I call on all Ukrainian national deputies today who have not yet come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and may be watching the broadcast and watching where the pendulum will go. Ladies and gentlemen, your place is here today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today we have more than 300 Ukrainian national deputies. Come here! All decisions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I believe, should be made by a constitutional majority today, I hope that the wisdom of all faction leaders, all leaders of independent formal and informal parliamentary groups, will find an opportunity to agree to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. That's what I'm saying, because the provocations have already begun, about who took some advice, the office of the President's Administration, and so on. This is all false. Today, the offices of the Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are guarded by the fighters of the Department of State Security. It's the only thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u96	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u97	The only thing that's done today is in the entire government district, self-defence fighters are being patrolled, demanding the cessation of any provocations that may be, the cessation of any excesses that may be. So today we are talking about peace and stability in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u98	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u99	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, indeed, who was last night in Midan and saw Maidan say good-bye to the heroes of Ukraine, who gave their lives to the altar of the Ukrainian State, so that our Ukraine would become completely different, who had shed blood, who believed that there could be justice in Ukraine and there could be power that would defend the interests of their people, their state, and not think about how to destroy it and rob it. I find it difficult to speak because yesterday I was unable to attend the funerals of my friend, my friend Alexander Capinos, who was killed in Maidan, a killer in a Berkutian race. But I believe and I know one thing that any crime, he must be punished. And it's hard for me to talk because our organization has lost many of the brothers that we knew, that we were associating with, that we were fighting side by side with this gang. 16 people are a great price. The great price that hundreds of Ukrainians have given up their lives today is that we have to consider it and realize that Ukraine is now a completely different nation. We are a nation that is sprinkled with blood, that cement, that unity that must appreciate this sacrifice. And we have to do everything we can to make sure that this never happens again. So that the Ukrainians do not pay with such blood that the criminals who organized it and who led them to do so will certainly be punished. But unfortunately, we see that now in Kharkiv Hep and Dop are still trying to appeal to separatism and make various provocative statements. I am convinced that they will shoulder their responsibility and that we will certainly bring them to this responsibility, and every criminal will be punished. But now the task of us as parliamentarians as deputies is to do everything we can to ensure that we urgently approve of the appointment of a minister of the interior, to whom we must put order on the street, to stop the looting and to point out that there is no further bloodshed. We must choose the leadership of the Supreme Council and, of course, work to adopt all the necessary laws. To return the same. When we registered, our faction, the State-owned Interigree, the impeachment law to be adopted immediately. We must not depart from the walls of Parliament until all the necessary laws are passed now for the Ukrainian State, because we are responsible for the situation in Ukraine. Now all of Ukraine is chained to television screens and hopes that we have the strength to do so. And I'm convinced, by associating with the MPs, that we're going to adopt loudly today all these laws that will keep Ukraine from spilling Ukrainian blood, because we've already shed enough of it. And we are really building a new Ukrainian state, where it will rule as social and national justice, and the Ukrainian will be protected. Glory to Ukraine! Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to the next speaker, I will report to you that the heads of ministries, departments are already arriving. In particular, Bogdan Červak, head of the department of the State Department, has arrived at the building of the Supreme Council. Practically, ministers are being challenged and are gradually coming to the Supreme Council. May I have the floor of the Medunic People's Deputy. Please. If there is no National Deputy, please let me speak to the National MP Mochkov. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy Mustafa Djemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Companion Tomenko was now talking about the wisdom of the Autonomous Republic’s leadership and its rejection of secessionist tendencies. Sadly, though, that is not the case. Today, there is a threat of separatistism in Crimea, that is, the refusal of the territory of the peninsula from Ukraine and its accession to the Russian Federation. The head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is known to be separatist. According to her Head of Constantinov, he was in Moscow two days ago, and after his return he planned to hold an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where the majority of deputies from the Party of Regions were expected to receive applications for the accession of Crimea to Russia and an appeal to the Kremlin to protect Russian citizens in Crimea. Last night, thanks only to the operations of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, who have consistently advocated the territorial integrity of Ukraine and the common sense of some Crimean politicians, the plan has been disrupted. At present, however, the threat of implementation of the scenario is preserved. Instead of the session, the leadership of the Supreme Council will hold a meeting of the faction of the Party of the Regions, but by inviting representatives of other factions outside the Kurultay-Rukh faction presented by the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people. That is, the conditions are reserved for the announcement of the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That is why the Crimean Tatar people’s Majlis were mobilized by Crimean Tatars to prevent the rebellion today near the Supreme Council of Crimea. Separatists have been able to slow down, but we need to make clear decisions here in the Supreme Council. I call upon you immediately to select the Henprocuror, the Head of the Board and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to draw persons suspected of committing criminal offences under article 110 of the Criminal Code, part two of Ukraine's Criminal Code, to appropriateness, to take precautionary measures. I would also like to report that Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people has decided to raise funds to help families killed and treated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u102	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u103	To help families who have been killed and to treat wounded fighters against dictatorship. The decision has also been made to ensure the recreation of their children in Crimea. We will care for them as our own children. I would also like to present a proposal to the spiritual government of the Muslims of Crimea that the bodies of the murdered heroes of Ukraine be beaten in the square of Independence. So that our citizens and visitors in the capital will have the opportunity to place flowers, present honors, and pray for the souls of our heroes. Praise fallen heroes, glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u104	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Miroshnik Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u105	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, first of all, I would like to address the entire country and welcome what wise and balanced decisions we adopted yesterday by Parliament. Because it was those judgmental decisions and the agreement signed by the three leaders of the opposition that allowed the opposition to stop fighting in the country that allowed the use of weapons to be stopped. And the wisdom we showed showed that we were right. No one is talking about the presidential elections that can take place in November or December. It is obvious that Yanukovic was capitulating, his ministers fled, and he is no longer the President of Ukraine, despite his failure to write a statement of credentials. At the same time, while not repeating with his colleagues, it means that the requirements of Maidan will be fulfilled to the end and to the end of 100 percent. Now is an extremely important step to be taken by the Supreme Council, many of them, to establish the rule of law in the country. And it is extremely important that all the approvals of the Supreme Council be voted on by 300 votes, as has already been said. I want to complement what has not been said in Parliament today, but what worries hundreds and thousands of millions of Ukrainians, what has been the demand of Maidan and what we have forgotten. The end of political persecution in Ukraine is a sign of the country's democratization. Yesterday we voted on an extremely important document that allows Julius Timoshenko to go free. At the same time, however, we forgot about a number of political prisoners who fought for their right in this country to live in a democratic system of values that fought for Ukraine and that are now in prison behind walls. I want to name the names of those whom we must release immediately from prison because they are no one but political prisoners. I want to mention Vitali Zaporozka, who protected his family, protected his family, and protected his village from the militia. I want to mention the so-called "wassilk terrorists": Vladimir Sparu, Sergey Bealz, Igor Mosiyczuk, who planned the destruction of Lenin, which was not even there, and today we see that their action and their ideology were perfectly correct. I want to mention the father and the son of Pavluchenko, because the whole country has risen up against the Civil War, but nevertheless they continue to sit in prison. Freedom for honest people, freedom for Pavlichenkos, and freedom for all political prisoners in the Ukrainian State. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u106	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Ukraine! Today we are living with you a difficult, responsible, decisive day, and we think that the Lord's hand will be upon us mercifully, and we will take all balanced, wise, peaceful steps, we will try to contain all the passions that are in our souls, we will do the most important thing: find a cold mind to continue the life of such a dying, desirable state as Ukraine. And it all depends now, gentlemen, on us, on our Parliament. I'd like to pay attention to each of us. Today we're talking about those heroes who died in Maidan, and today I want to talk about my friend that we worked with at the theater with him. John Frank, he's going to be buried in his homeland today, in Chernigovishka this is Andrew Movchan, 34 years old. He worked at our theater, and now Frank's theater and Maidan are saying good-bye to him. They're amazing, beautiful people, and we're going to talk about them a lot. God accepts them into his "God's hundred," and I think the most important things that relate to their departure are the early ones that are related to our future plans that we are now discussing with you and we are dreaming with you. We must be extremely cold in our thoughts. And it's very important that we find the most important, the things that would bring us together, the Parliament, and allow, first and foremost, this combination to take the most important steps that will in the future hold our state and our Ukraine. I'd like to draw attention to the media that our Ukrainian broadcasters are today, and they're catching our television screens. There we see what is being transmitted from Russia, what information goes both by what words and by what epithets, and what truth is being told for us, for the people of Ukraine. It would be easy to pay attention right now and say that we should stop their broadcasts, but -- no, we don't need to let the Ukrainians have the opportunity to watch and choose from what they say about us and how they judge us, and who really wants us for good in the future. I would also like to point out that all of these things, which are related to the existence of our nation, need to be preserved. We need to be wise today to make all the appointments balanced so that nothing out of Ukraine can come out of what belongs to the people of Ukraine and nothing has been wasted. And those who should be held accountable certainly did not escape that punishment. So with God, gentlemen! They're waiting for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u108	Thank you. Before the words of the Pious People's Deputy. Andrew Happy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, dear Ukrainians, I would like first of all to address the National Deputies! Friends, we must be worthy today of our people, of the people today who are conquering freedom, of the people today who are protecting the Ukrainian Constitution, of the people who understand how important it is to live in a free European country, of the people who, unlike the Supreme Council, have for a long time ignored the demands of the Ukrainian people, understand that the only source of authority in Ukraine is the people exercising their authority directly. So I would like to address the people of the East today. Brothers, Ukrainians, brothers and sisters! It's not an East-West war, it's a war between power and the people. Today we call you to unity. Today, we must maintain Ukraine’s unity, its sovereignty, its independence, its prosperity, and our children’s ability to grow in peace. So I want to assure you that the Supreme Council will be the only one, and you must also understand responsibility. Do not give in to any provocations; do not give in to any separatist call; understand, including your responsibility, brothers and sisters. I hope I believe I know that today the Supreme Council will take full responsibility for the situation in the country. I am convinced that the Supreme Council will today adopt those decisions that will enable the preservation of Ukrainian sovereignty and peace in Ukraine and honor the memory of those who have given their lives in order for the Ukrainian State to be free for peace in the country and not for dictators in the country and for the country to become a European country. I call upon the people of the East. Watch very closely what is happening now in the Supreme Council, analyze, listen, take a critical look at those calls that will be heard in your side. Do not give in to provocation. We will ensure peace, we will ensure a stable Ukraine, we will ensure our future with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u110	Thank you. For information. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, brief information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u111	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! Now there is free access to the former residence – the Inter-Igoria, people walk freely and exchange their unforgettable impressions of all the luxury that exists with the President, who is probably already at the expense of the Ukrainian people. But there are some very serious things. There are already dozens of cultural values belonging to the Ukrainian people. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Committees of ICOM, ICOMOS and the Ukrainian Library Association set up today the so-called "Ukrainian Blue Shield" according to a decision of the United Nations. These shields are designed to protect cultural values. Museum experts are asking to take over and protect the self-defence of Maidan and the new Minister of Interior of the residence of Medjugorje, with a large proportion of which museums believe is possible from the repository of the National Museum of Ukraine, and these cultural values belong to the Ukrainian people. With such a call to the MPs and to the self-defence of Maidan, and to the new one to be elected today, the Minister of the Interior was addressed by museums and the head of the Ukrainian Blue Shield by PresidentICOMOS Mikola Yakovina. This means that, after the Minister of the Interior has been elected, the members of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Spirituality will be charged with the cultural values in the territory of the former residence of "Megigira" so that these values will be returned to the Ukrainian National Museum Fund and returned to the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u112	Thank you. May I have the floor of the national deputy Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u113	Praise the heroes of Ukraine! Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! At these moments, the bodies of two heroes of Ukraine are buried by my assistants, Sergio Bondarczuk and Mikola Dzivulski. The blood of those who have been shed calls to God, calling upon us to do all things now so that the Ukrainian State will be strengthened and preserved. I am addressing all the conscious Ukrainians, all the statesmen, throughout Ukraine to preserve as much as possible the acquisition of the Ukrainian people. During this night, during all those days ahead of the Hmelnschina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, together with hundreds of self-defences, protect the people's well-being. I'm calling on all people to make sure no casinos are broken so no bank offices are robbed so no shop in Ukraine can be robbed. This is all our good. We all remember from history why the Ukrainian People's Republic ceased to exist -- through looting -- through people who were robbing under the noise of the revolution. The same was true of the UPA’s heroic struggle. Half of them shed their blood for Ukraine, while others, in line under them, walked and robbed. We now have to make a clear distinction and understand clearly that anyone who goes to rob and kill is an enemy of Ukraine, an enemy of the Ukrainian people. During all three months of the dignity revolution, it was really a unique revolution throughout Kiev. No shop was destroyed, no bank separation, no property was looted. We have to ensure this right now. I also address all Ukrainians in Ukraine, in the East and in the South, in the North and in the West. We now have to do everything we can to save the Ukrainian state. I'm talking to my friend from Mariupol's countrymen. We have to be in one state. My brother was born in New Kahovka in Hersonian. I also address the Hersonians and all the other Ukrainians throughout Ukraine. We have to do everything that the Ukrainian state, the great Ukrainian state, social and national justice, has been approved. And it will be the best monument, and it will be the best memory for all those who have died in defense of the Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Ukrainian heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u114	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who wish to speak. I'm asking everyone to invite us to the session room, and now we're going to the vote and to the agenda of today's plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, I think everyone will agree that, first of all, we have to look at the most important issues facing Ukraine today: preserving territorial integrity. Any acts of separatism must be stopped now. In view of this, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily plenary session Order No. 4183 on Prevention of Separatism and Other Violations Based on National Security of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the inclusion of this ruling in the order of the day. Before voting, I ask again to invite all the national deputies to the session room. As long as our colleagues are gathered, then we'll move on to personnel issues that need to be addressed urgently. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Order (4183) on the prevention of secessionism and other attacks on the basis of Ukraine's national security. Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:19:23]] For 301 Against - 0, held - 0, did not vote - 18. The factions, please. Region Party 31, Parenthood 86, Vitalia Klicka Strike 39, Freedom 34, Company 31, non-fractional 80. I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u115	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We go through the most dramatic pages of Ukrainian history. But Ukrainian history is the only united country. And this is the Ukrainian future. From this rostrum we address the whole country: Lugansk and Donetsk, Lviv and Ternopol, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and all our only state, and every Ukrainian citizen. We have two values: the first value is man and the second value is our country. We call for the preservation of the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State as the only country that, despite speaking a different language, has different backgrounds, has different visions of historical processes, but should have one vision of a common future: the unitary united Ukrainian state. Any attempt on the part of political forces or public organizations or any other politician who seeks to split the country is nothing more than a crime for which he will be punished. That is why it is now proposed to vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Prevention of Separatism and Other Violations Based on National Security of Ukraine. Anyone, and I'm talking to Viktor Yanukovich separately, just try to shape the separatist moods in the country, and Mom won't be able to save herself in any area in any territory. Ukraine is and will be the only independent state. That is why Parliament advocates the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. Parliament is in favour of condemning any appeals and acts of separatism. Parliament calls on the Budapest Memorandum to ensure the territorial integrity and national security of the Ukrainian State, as has been signed and guaranteed by the major countries of the world. Please put this decision to a vote and in the constitutional majority save the country, preserve its unity and integrity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u116	Here's to Oleg Laishka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, before this ruling, I propose the following amendments, and I ask you to support Arsenia Yatsenuk's ruling with regard to these amendments. According to the facts of secession and attempts to dissipate the country, the General Prosecutor’s Office, the Security Service, should immediately prosecute a criminal case. Next. Instruct the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs to hold for delivery to the court, to select a precautionary measure in the form of custody: Dobkina, Kernes, Constantinova, Toluba, Mohilova, Golenka, Pristuk, Kravchenka. All of them. It indicates criminal conduct, not criminal action. We're going to keep the Chechnya when we're depriving the MPs. To entrust the State Border Service with preventing individuals from going abroad. Dear colleagues, why are these adjustments important? Today, the people mentioned in the project that we are proposing are tearing Ukraine apart. We must take immediate measures to arrest them, arrest them, and bring them to criminal responsibility. Ukraine is above all else! Please support the order as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, I bet. We'll put it on the ground and then we'll talk about it. Honorable national MPs, on the ground. I'll read it. Based on the base. Ladies and gentlemen, I read. Taking into account the Ukrainian Security Service’s statement of February 21, 2014, and other reports of attempts by individual politicians, representatives of local governments, leaders of citizens’ associations, radically set up a ground for escalation of civil conflict, the spread of separatist sentiments, which could lead to threats to territorial integrity and the state’s integrity. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to condemn unequivocally the manifestations of separatism and any other violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. To require the Ukrainian Security Service to investigate promptly all reports of crimes against the foundations of national security and Ukraine, in particular attacks on Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity, and to take firm and comprehensive measures to halt and prevent threats to Ukraine's national security. February 22, 2014 I'm sorry, it's probably written here on the 28th. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, listen to information by the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the investigation of reports of attacks on the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine, and in particular reports of separate negotiations between members of different levels with representatives of foreign states on the possible division of the country in several parts, as stated by the Ukrainian Security Service on February 21, 2014. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I suggest we put it on the ground now. February 25th. Excuse me, Tuesday, February 25th. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote for the basis as a whole. [[12:27:14]] For 319 [[Applause]] Against 0, hold on to 0. Factions please: Region Party 39, Parenthood 88, Vitalia Klicka, 40, Freedom Company 35, Company 30, non-fractional 87. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to personnel issues. Out of procedure, please, Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u119	A boy named Andrew. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a huge request. Today, of course, we all want to share in the discussion and to say so many important and needed words from the rostrum. But now people on the street and in Maidan need solutions, and so I very much suggest that we now have to make decisions about changing the leadership of the Supreme Council, in charge of the IMF. I very much ask for minimum discussion and to move on to decision-making is very important. [[Applause]] The people on the street are waiting for decisions, we'll still have time for an infinite time to speak from this rostrum, now I'm proposing all decisions without discussion to be taken as a basis and in general, and I'm asking you to do it together and disciplined. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to personnel. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part 4 of article 77 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put to the vote the question of the appeal of the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Vasilovich Rybak, in relation to the application. May I have the people's deputies vote, please turn on the "Council" system? [[12:29:11]] For 326 Against -0, held -0. Thank you. Factions: The Party of Regions 46, Fatherland 88, Vitalia Klicka 40, Freedom 36, Ukraine 29, non-fractional 87. Thank you. In accordance with article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part 5 of article 79 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I put to the vote the question of recalling the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Igor Grigorovich Kalietnik From office in connection with the application. Please vote. [[12:30:07.]] For 326 Against 2, hold on to 0. Decision taken. The factions. Regional Party 46, Parenthood 88, Vitalia Klicka 40, Freedom 36, Company 30, non-fractional 86. Dear National Deputies! Let us turn to the question of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the MPs nominated the following national deputies: Turkinova Aleksandra Valentinović and Prashenko Petra Alexiyyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please turn on the microphone of Petra Alexiyovich Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u121	I'm calling off my candidacy for Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u122	We have one Turkinov candidate, Alexander Valentinovich, who is in agreement with all the MP factions. I beg your pardon, Yuri the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u123	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! In this room, we have talked a lot about the danger of the breakup of Ukraine. We had a faction meeting, it was not easy, we were talking mostly about the positions of speaker and vice-speaker, but we were talking about what was waiting for our country. And the main criterion that we should now choose the person who, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament, will speak with the country is that it should be heard not only in the West or in the Centre, but also in the East of Ukraine. This decision is extremely responsible for us because it is the fate of our voters, and we have even made decisions about voting. We decided that a candidate should be offered to be heard by the East. Maybe from the Party of Regions, maybe from non-fractional MPs, but now choosing a person who will not be at peace with the whole country poses some danger to the separatists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u124	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u125	Separatist sentiments that have now come before the country. And each of the national MPs, who will now make a decision, must be aware of their part of the responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important situation. There's a candidate, if we say Yuri Romanovich, from Dnipropetrovska, a native of Dnipropetrovska. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure I'll take responsibility for the fact that we're about to break the election procedure. Is there a need to discuss a candidate now? Let's put a candidate to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, there's a candidate. Let us put to the vote the candidate for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Turkey, Alexander Valentinovich. Please vote. Decision number, I'm sorry. Stop, please. Please stop! [[B in m in s a l in]] There's going to be a decision number. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced. I'll bet you a vote. I'm sorry. Vitaly Volodymyrovich, if you'll excuse me, let's vote now. Vote! [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please, there is a very important situation. You can't put your ambitions on the table right now. There's a question, I'll put it to a vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] 4170 Orders. Please vote. [[12:34:54]] For 288 Against 0, hold on to 4, don't vote 34. [[Applause]] I now pronounce the Turkinov People's Deputy Alexander Valentinovich the Head of the Supreme Council. Please take your place. Please show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your confidence. And I want to say that the authorities in Ukraine are starting their work. It restores its work, it stabilizes Ukraine. The center of power in Ukraine is here in the Ukrainian Parliament. I mean, your honor, that's the first task of our Supreme Council. Guys, I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. This is the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Valentinovich, come in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u129	I'll give my colleagues a chance to communicate. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to calm down. In order for the Supreme Council to become the center of our country's leadership, this is the only legitimate authority today, we need consolidation in this room. The Supreme Council must protect all Ukraine, and the East, and the West, and the North, and the South, is our responsibility. I appeal to all the deputies with a request for consolidation and for work for Ukraine. I'm asking all the MP factions, the MPs, the non-fractional MPs: right after the restoration of the Constitution, which should take place today, we have to start forming a coalition government. In order not to have a discussion about a coalition government, in order not to waste time, to restore power in Ukraine, we have today decided to elect a parliamentary head. In order for a coalition government to be formed, in order to be united, I officially declare: for a coalition government to be formed, it will be necessary to submit my resignation application -- I am filing a resignation application to form a coalition government to be elected by the coalition government to be the leadership of the Supreme Council so that the whole country can work in a stable, efficient manner. [[Applause]] Dear people's deputies (please turn on the microphone) let's talk for five minutes about the situation, the first questions. And I am convinced that we need to approach the restoration of the Constitution in Ukraine. We already have the right decision. Please sign up for the performance. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this show started. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kaplin, the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u130	Ukrainian National Deputy, UDA faction, Poltavščina, Sergey Kaplin. At this extremely difficult time when Ukraine survived the revolution not only in the areas and streets, but a revolution in the consciousness of both East and West millions of Ukrainians expect us to take decisive and important action. We should no longer delay establishing justice and order in Ukraine. Millions of Ukrainians, who have waited 20 years for change, are finally approaching such radical, necessary, timely, and important changes in Ukraine’s history. There are countless wounds on the country’s body. During these three months, we looked death into our eyes. Today, individual politicians are trying to split the country apart, trying to take away the right given to the multimillion-dollar people of Ukraine to define in their main ambition -- to be a real European country, a model country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u131	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u132	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u133	A model country and later a leader in Europe. Today, all of this depends on our unity, solidarity, and understanding. Glory to Ukraine! And forward with real, confident democratic progress towards a solution to conflicts. We must put the country on the tracks of real reforms. There should be no more Yanukovich generals in uniforms, there should be reformers, there should be reforms, and there should be the prosperity of our nation, our Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u134	Sergey, the Fatherland faction. And dear friends, there is a request. Let us shorten the discussion and move to a vote on the restoration of the Constitution of Ukraine, the constitutional system of Ukraine. No objections? Sergey Vladislavovich, can we please stop this discussion? Sergey Vladislavovich agrees. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We understand the full responsibility of what is happening in the country right now, and we understand the urgent need to return to the rules of the Constitution, which have been defiantly repealed by the judges of the Constitutional Court, for which I hope they will still be held accountable. But we have to respect the events that are now taking place and the agreements that have been signed. Yesterday, opposition leaders, the President of Ukraine, in the presence of foreign ministers of Germany and Poland, signed an appropriate agreement on a plan of action. I urge the time of this agreement to refrain from adopting any normative acts that would cause these agreements to not be signed and not implemented. If there is a need to vote on the decision, I ask the presiding officer to make a general commitment not to sign it until the time of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, we're all doing the memo items that were signed yesterday. You see, the faction of the Party of Regions votes and fulfils all the obligations. The adoption of any normative act that might trigger the collapse of this process, I think, is dangerous for the stability of society. If there is a wish to vote, please refrain from signing it by the end of the relevant memorandum. We need to unite this hall today and unite the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, we have Mr. Schneitzki's insistence on the speech and let's take the risk. Let's get started. Let's put it in the order of the day's ruling, and then we'll start talking about it. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u139	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I am addressing each and every one of you to take this very, very seriously, to consider this important issue and to make a real decision that you should make as representatives of the people, because today you have all the responsibility that will be in the country. What he just said about the previous one about the deal that was signed yesterday. Yes, this covenant provided for the introduction of a law that we passed yesterday morning. To date, the law is not signed by the President, but it has been put into effect since its publication. I mean, logically, we can come to the conclusion that the President's treaty is broken. What's going on in the country. In the country, there is no real injustice today. Today the only legitimate body is the Supreme Council. And we have to do everything we can to ensure that the country is not destroyed and that the authorities are controlled and that society is controlled. That's why. Therefore, we have no choice but to vote in favour of this decree. If we do not vote for this decision, we do not know what the consequences will be. We must do everything to preserve our state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u140	Please, Mr. Rudzkowski, from the place and we're starting work on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, first information. I address you as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mr. Pinzenic, stay out of this. Now the P.O. of Gruszewski, Alexander Valentinovich, has been beaten up by the P.O. of Gruszewski. I ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council, to instruct the law enforcement authorities to intervene in the situation. That's the first one. It's different. I think we now have representatives of the two right political parties to balance the situation, so let's pick a substitute from, let's say, Eastern Ukraine, I suggest we look at, let's say, a compromise figure like Mr. Voropeyev, and a lawyer. and lift the tension, that the East may also see that their position is taken into account by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as soon as a draft decision on the substitute is made and this is agreed upon by the factions, we will certainly discuss and vote on the matter immediately. Dear colleagues, Ukraine is waiting for our decision. This decision should restore the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of the fact that the President of Ukraine, Yanukovic, took responsibility in the treaty, did not sign the Law on the Restoration of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has every authority to take a decision on the matter. I now request the inclusion in the agenda of the Daily Order (4185) of 28 June 1996 of the Constitution of Ukraine with amendments and additions to the laws of Ukraine of 8 December 2004 No. 2222-4 of 1 February 2011, No. 2952-6 of 19 September 2013, No. 586-7. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this ruling. Who's in? I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Let's start the vote. [[12:48:54]] For 315 Thank you. For 315 votes. Decision taken. Please show the factions. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, on the procedure for discussing the matter. There is a need to discuss it in connection with what we discussed and discussed yesterday. So there's an offer to give a few minutes to one of the project's authors and vote on the project. Please, there's no need to speak? There's no need to speak. Let's put it this way: the People's Phinehas wants to make an offer to this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! I am making a proposal to you that may unite all of us and allow us to make a decision that is supported by all present in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This paragraph refers to the rule that the ruling will take effect if the 9 - hour stand on the President’s website does not appear on the President’s website on the signing of the law that we voted yesterday. I'm asking for your judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u144	Please give the word to Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, as opposed to power, we must act as we do now, only in a legal and constitutional way. Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Act on the Renewal of the Provisions of the Constitution in 2004. In accordance with the agreement with our European partners, which was part of the power, the bill on the restoration of the Constitution had to be voted on, signed and published within 48 hours. This means that Viktor Janukovic was obliged yesterday to sign the bill in order for it to be published today. Let me specifically point out, Mr. Head, that in order for us to go in every letter, there is a next proposal. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u146	I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u147	Vote now in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the text of the Constitution of Ukraine, as of June 28, 1996, add the following sentence to the text of the decree. Paragraph seven: "This Order ceases to apply since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on the Renewal of Certain Provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine" (No. 742-7 of 21.02.2014). We vote in favour of this decree, Mr. Head. After that, we will decide to publish and sign the decree if Viktor Yanukovic does not sign the bill yesterday. In this order, please put the ruling to the vote on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u148	Please give the people's deputies the word of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u149	Dear Head, dear colleagues. It's a very good offer, but I'm offering it in a different edition. This decree takes effect if no law has been promulgated within 48 hours by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because you're writing that this decision goes out of hand after the law goes into effect, and it may not work for two weeks. There is a right, if the agreement is not executed, to sign for two weeks. It is therefore necessary to make a determination by the last paragraph that this decree takes effect when 48 hours have passed since the adoption of the law. And that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I'm asking the copyright team that worked on this decision, Arsenius Yatzenuk, please, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u151	I'll contact Vladimir Mikhailovich now, if I may. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we write in the sixth paragraph, "This decision has taken effect since its adoption." Yeah? Here's a proposition. Now we're taking this Order, including the point that it's not valid if the law becomes effective if Janukovic signs it. If Janukovic signs it, the Order has no validity, but until Janukovitch has time to sign the law, the Head of Parliament will not sign it and it will act. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support Arsenius Yatsenuk's proposal. Nestor Ivanovich, I'm literally going to say a few words about why. Now we're going to have to make immediate decisions about reinstatement of the government, and including temporarily, before the Cabinet of Ministers is formed, to appoint the Minister of the Interior, why? Because we need to organize people who are standing in Maidan from self-defence, from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to organize joint patrols, to stop the self-sustainment that is taking place, including in relation to the national MPs. This must be done urgently in order for us to make decisions regarding the responsibility of the minister of the interior. When it is necessary to make decisions before forming a coalition government, some other technical, personnel issues. We do need the Constitution to be restored, but it can be restored when the decision is made. So, honourable national MPs, I very much ask you to make a decision, Arsenius Petrovich, that we agree on a position, Nestor Ivanovich, as follows. That this decision is null and void when the Constitution is signed. The Constitution Act that we passed with you yesterday. This is the right thing to do. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Indeed, yesterday we voted by almost 400 votes, that is, we deliberately did what we understood the need and the responsibility. So let us not take a step that may ruin the arrangement. I have a request, a sincere request, either to abstain from voting until tomorrow, or to vote by saying that this ruling will enter into force after 48 hours, now 21 hours after the agreement has been signed, after 48 hours, in case of not signing or publishing the law. And as for the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I have an offer, but we live in Ukraine now, where there is legitimate authority, let's invite those present, if you'll excuse me, who are present in Kiev, the leaders of the central authorities, or their deputies, let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u154	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u155	Let us see who is alive in Kiev from the guidance and study these circumstances and may not need to go into a breach of the covenant right now. I am convinced that we will find a person who will work under the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a period and a half. I'm sure that's what I'm saying. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Let's give the national MP Timoshenko, the national MP Lazko, the national deputy Sobolev, and we'll take the risk. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Head. The management of the IMF is illegal and has nowhere to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u158	Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u159	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! I ask you all to listen to the words of the Head of the Supreme Council, there is no minute for empty talk, we must make immediate decisions, we must take a reinstatement of the Constitution, we must elect a new Minister of Internal Affairs, we must resign the Attorney General. And the main thing. Today, the Supreme Council, given that there is no President in Ukraine, has to decide to remove Yanukovich from office as President and appoint new President of Ukraine elections. Without that decision, we have no right to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u160	Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, after which Sobolev will speak and we will make a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u161	Dear colleagues! I'd like to speak to everyone in the room again. We have a critical situation and it is critical that we now keep the vote in more than 300 votes. I'm addressing our colleagues from the opposition, and you and I have arranged for an editorial that was bugged by Schufrich from this rostrum in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. We've proposed a compromise option that will be voted with us here, or let's sign it after 48 hours, or let's write it down in the text. And yet, my fellow Members, the situation is extremely difficult right now to talk about that we have to create some alternative executives, and I think we can only do that once we invite the acting leaders, including the IMF, and we'll find out the situation that's in the executive branch. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u162	National MP Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u163	National MP Sobolev, please, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, here are the leaders of enterprises that have come a long way. You know, there's only one time left. We're saved by the fact that it's Saturday-Sunday. If Saturday-Sunday ends, and internal affairs don't take control of the situation in every city and village, you know how this ends. So my proposal is to support the option offered by Yatzenuk. If the President signs, the decision will be void, and the constitutional system restored in the country will continue. We've got real ones. A few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Counting it. Colleagues, given the situation in the country, I am now asking to vote in favour of this ruling in a consolidated manner. I will sign this decree according to the arrangements that were between the political forces. So I ask you to start the voting process now. Turn on the "Race" system. I ask you to vote. [[13:01:37]] For 325 [[Applause]] Decision taken. I'm asking for factions. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I welcome you, we have restored the constitutional order with you and the hours left to clarify the organization of this process -- signing the relevant documents, I think, will not affect the situation in Ukraine. Our task is a stable Ukraine, a strong Ukraine, our task is to stop any more bloodshed in Ukraine. That's why, dear colleagues, we need to re-establish the Cabinet of Ministers. We need to find out who of the executives is still able to work until a new parliamentary majority, the coalition government of Ukraine, is formed. That's why, dear colleagues, I deliberately went to this position, realizing that my main task is to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. And that's why, dear friends, I'm asking you to listen to the Order of the People's Deputies, under number 4180, so that we can vote on it. The Supreme Council's decree to take political responsibility for the situation in Ukraine. Taking into account, in fact, the self-removal of many heads of state authorities from exercising their powers, expressing the sovereign will of the Ukrainian people, caring for the restoration of civil peace and tranquillity in Ukraine, and recognizing the responsibility for the situation in Ukraine, with a view to ensuring economic stability in Ukraine and preventing the deterioration of the situation in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Instruct Turkey's Supreme Council to form a coalition government to coordinate and direct the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Dear colleagues, this is caused by the fact that, as suggested here, do not make parallel bodies, temporary bodies of the work of the executive structures, namely, that the Supreme Council and I will need the assistance of the professional committees, I'm paying attention to this, I'll need the assistance of both the national deputies and the political forces in order to stabilize the situation in the country immediately, to force the executive authority to carry out my functions, including, above all, the protection of our citizens, their political, economic, social rights. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter before it is voted? There is a proposal to vote. I'm going to ask then to put the order under number 4180 into the agenda. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[13:05:00]] For 313 Thank you. For 313. Decision taken. The order is included in the consideration. Please, the people's representative of Rudzikowski's word. Please, very briefly, one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u166	Dear National Deputies! Alexander Valentinovich, I address you and all my colleagues to think about it. Clearly, Alexander Valentinovich can only do this today, but there are many problems in the state. I think we're going to need a lot more to decide in the Supreme Council. You cannot move the work of the Head of the Supreme Council and the Chief Executive. After all, please take a break for 15 minutes, make a run for it, so that the head of government can start doing his job, offer the acting head of parliament, and let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u167	Thank you. Friends, a very brief comment. I would like to listen carefully to the text of the decree. There is no proposal for Parliament's leadership to assume the role of government leadership. There's no here, this option. It's about coordinating and directing work. So I'll just give you a simple formula. Now we need to get the executive heads together, they need someone to get together, someone to do it, someone to put a task in front of them, someone to assess the situation in a department or in a department or department. And that's what you're tasked with doing for the leadership of the Supreme Council. So, dear colleagues, there's an offer. Mr. Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, you may not want to listen to me, but once again I remind you that it is critical for us to make decisions together. So we all understand that there is a danger of creating parallel structures of executive power. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'd like to put it this way. As far as coordination is concerned. Alexander Valentinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u169	That's right!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u170	The coordination of cooperation between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, in this way we can support. If this is about governance, direction, guidance, I'm afraid that many of my colleagues in the Party of Regions will not be able to vote for these things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, this is about coordination of work. And that's what we're talking about in the text of our decree. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to vote on Project 4180. I'm asking you to turn on the " Rada" system. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. [[13:08:00]] For 314 It's been decided. Dear National Deputies! I would now like to ask in connection with the problem. Now, now, Arseny Petrovich. I would like to ask your colleagues, in view of the critical situation, especially with regard to the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in view of the fact that the performance of the minister's duties has disappeared in an unknown direction, in view of the very many options of opposition and self-sustainment, we need to restore the Ministry's work first of all, to protect citizens, citizens' lives, first of all, to protect them. All Ukrainian citizens: both in the East and in the West, friends. So I would ask the leaders of factions and MPs to speak out on this issue right now so that we can make a decision. Please sign up for the performance. Please, from the strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u172	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u173	Please give the floor to Deputy Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, we know that there is already an agreed candidature from the opposition factions on the responsibility of the minister of the interior. It is quite obvious that this person should be appointed today. This must be an authoritative policy that millions of Ukrainians trust, which will primarily stabilize the situation in the power structures in order to restore the power structures to their primary law enforcement activities. In order that those honest law enforcement officials there, many of whom today are ashamed of their leadership, can return to their responsibilities and protect the rule of law in Ukraine, helping the new government to bring the new authorities into the country, in all regions of Ukraine. To stop the militia from being a scarecrow, orderly on the streets of Ukraine. We support this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u175	Please, from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union who will act. Oleg Tuggnibok. National MP Dragnibok, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u176	The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports Arsen Awakov's candidacy as head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We propose a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u177	Please, from the faction of the Party of Regions, will someone be speaking? Please, Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, we have supported and will support the position that it is urgent for us to choose a person in charge of the responsibility of the minister of the interior. First. We recommend that this be a professional man who has experience in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But to tell who it is or to discuss it personally, we will not. We believe that this is a practical matter for the new majority today. The new majority of the Supreme Council Head will now choose the Minister of Internal Affairs in practice and take charge of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u179	Please, Arseny Petrovich. National MP Kowalczuk, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, there is a further proposal, based on what the Head of the Supreme Council has announced before this, that he will sign the Return to the Constitution Order 2004 only when 48 hours from the signing of yesterday's agreement, which is at 16 o'clock tomorrow, we have another proposal. In order not to be accused of violating the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine to date to determine Mr. Habakkuk as authorized for control, authorized by the Supreme Council to control the diagnosity of internal affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the offer, of course, is Arsen Awakov's political proposal, with respect. But, dear colleagues, I think this will be a positive signal for everyone. I propose the opposition to review and submit the nomination of a national deputy, Jaremi, who is an authoritative person, who is a militiaman who ruled the city of Kiev, a militia, he uses respect for the citizens of Kiev and generally in opposition to the whole. Please understand and support. Thank you. Let's not make political decisions, the Ministry of Internal Affairs needs to be managed and, of course, a lot of marauding, he can make decisions, he'll be taken by law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u183	Thank you. The nation’s deputy, Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u184	Honorable national MPs, nonfractional national MPs also turn to opposition and national MPs. Jarem’s national deputy is an authority representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a balanced, balanced person who can make a responsible decision. Let's do some more consultations or propose two candidates. Please make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u185	People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u186	He's a boy. The thing is, we need to make really quick and urgent decisions right now, guys. We have to make decisions right now, we can change them next week. We'll be able to have a wide-ranging professional discussion next week. Now we need quick solutions. Arsen Awakov's candidacy was agreed upon. I propose to vote quickly now so that we can take the situation under control in Ukraine. One quick vote, next week, we'll be able to change that vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I ask you to give the floor to the national deputy Jaremi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, you know, today is a very difficult situation for the country. There's a lot of Birkutu militia units, internal troops are in Kiev, and they can't leave. We worked practically all night yesterday. You know, there are actions that can't be compared to any order today. So Arsen Borisovich Avakov was one of the leaders of Maidan for three months. He knows those who are working on the roadblocks today. These are the people who really provide order. They're people, unfortunately, instead of militias, today the patriots are standing near Kiev. And today we really need to bring the rule of law into a situation where law enforcement agencies will operate in the state, not people will stand civil and rule the country. I ask you to support Arsen Borisovich Avakov's candidacy, and this will stabilize the situation in the country. As for me personally and the law enforcement officers who are today, working in Parliament, we will provide loving professional help in order to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u189	Please finish the dates. Please, National Deputy Lazko. You know, it's better to give your word anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u190	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I support Habakkuk's candidacy. And as a national MP who will vote for Habakkuk, I want to give him an assignment right away. First. Make sure that the archives, especially police intelligence, are not destroyed. Because we've stolen dozens of Eromaydan activists, and this has been done in cooperation with the bandits and the militia. The other one. Everyone who comes to work for the police, remember, it's not food. Our task is to bring the police to a standstill with the people, stop the torture of the militia, stop the violations of legislation, stop the killings, stop the destruction of documents, and stop the destruction of archives. This is the responsibility of the minister of the interior. And most of all. No militiaman has the right to shoot people!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, we don't have time. I'm sorry. There were two candidates. One candidature has been withdrawn. Arsen Awakov's candidature remains. I am asking you to calm down. It's about people's lives. This is about protecting the lives of Ukrainian citizens, including I am addressing representatives of the Party of Regions, including the lives of militias, which is very important. So I ask you to make a decision. With all due respect. My friends, I'll remind you once again that we agreed that all the appointments we're making right now are related to the time to form a coalition government. I am convinced that in a coalition government you will be appointed with the minister of internal affairs who will work with dignity and who will be able to organize the ministry's effective work. We need to act now. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to appoint the interior minister Arsen Awakov. Please prepare the "Council" system for the vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:19:08]] For 275 [[Applause]] I ask Arsen Borisovich Habakkuk, along with Andri Parubius, to help us, along with our generals who are here in this room, to begin our duties immediately. And to ensure the rule of law in the state, and to protect the lives of citizens. Please have a few words to work with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u192	Glory to Ukraine! Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! At this difficult time, when I accept your commission, I want to say briefly. There is nothing more important than respect for civil rights and freedoms, peace and order in a state that is changing. Serving the people of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's consult. Many deputies approached and insisted that yesterday the chairman had not put the issue of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the vote. This morning, we contacted all the heads of state authorities, including the Attorney General's Office, to come to the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, we do not see here in the Supreme Council of the Attorney General, and in order to deal with this issue, we should give him our word. He had the opportunity to come to the Supreme Council. I'm going to the 4170? Consider. So, your honors, the ruling is being considered, I ask you, the number of the Order that you remind me of. 4170, I got it. I beg of you, dear fellows, pay attention! I ask you to sit in your seats now and now to vote on the inclusion of this Order in the agenda for the day-to-day consideration of matters. Please, 4170 of the Supreme Council's decree. Please vote. Thank you. [[13:21:23]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, are we voting on a reduced procedure? I inform you that all the necessary signatures from this issue have been collected and fully upheld in accordance with the Law and the Rules of the Supreme Council. For a very short speech, please don't vote for three minutes, Sasa Sergey Volodymyrovich as the author of the rulings. Once again, I call on Mr. Pshonka, when he's in the towers of the Supreme Council, we're ready to hear you in the rostrum of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u194	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 21 of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office is the only system on which it relies, in particular, the supervision of law enforcement by bodies carrying out operational research, knowledge and judicial investigations. In addition, according to paragraph 9 of the “Transitional Regulations” of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office continues to carry out, in accordance with applicable laws, the task of overseeing compliance with and application of laws governing the activities of the State authorities to monitor compliance with laws and the function of prior investigation. In accordance with article 36, section 2, of the Criminal Procedure Code, the Prosecutor shall supervise compliance with the laws in the course of pretrial investigation in the form of procedural guidance through a trial investigation. According to article 122 of the Constitution, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine is headed by the Attorney-General, and the organization and procedure of the Office of the Prosecutor in accordance with article 123 of the Constitution is governed by law. According to section 6 of section 1 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, the authorities of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office are the only centralized system led by the Attorney-General with the procurators under his jurisdiction. The procurator - general’s authority for the administration of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is defined by article 15 of the Act. During November 2013 and February 2014, the Law Enforcement Committee, the Ukrainian National Deputies, personally the Attorney-General of Pshons addressed requests to investigate the crimes committed by members of the Special Police and Internal Forces on 30 November 2013 in Majdani Independence, 1 December in Bangui Street, 11 December in Majdani Independence, and in January-February 2014 in Kiev and other cities in Ukraine. At present, no cases of crimes committed by law enforcement officials and other so-called "tissues" against peaceful citizens have been investigated or brought to justice, including killings, tortures, tortures and other crimes against humanity. Ukraine’s Attorney General, Pshonka, directed all references and allegations to these crimes to a former minister of internal affairs, most of whom were subordinated. No reaction from the Attorney General and his subordinates was to the actual imposition of the state of emergency regime in the central part of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u195	Please, this is a very serious question, let me finish this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u196	the illegal deployment and conduct of an anti-terrorist operation throughout Ukraine, launched by the Ukrainian Security Service, which was officially reported to the Attorney General of Pshonnec, but remained without any response. This is the attitude of Attorney General Pshonka in addressing appeals and allegations of crimes by Berkutu employees, members of the military of internal affairs and aunts, which have resulted in the misuse of physical violence, torture, torture, special means of influence and weapons to participants in peaceful acts of protest. Works have become systematic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u197	I'm sorry, Sergey Vasilovich, I beg you, let's go, MPs are tense, nervous, let's conclude, and we'll vote. I'd like to invite you to Mr. Pshonka's room again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, serious and especially serious crimes, the death of people, have become systematic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u199	Sergei Vasilovich, I'm sorry. There is a written proposal to give Sergey Volodymyrovich a report to all deputies. No objections? I'm asking you, Your Honor, to take your seats. Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u200	Your Honor, I ask you to support this decision. The decision in case of adoption takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, I invite everyone to the hall. Find me this decree. Dear colleagues, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit in the hall, take your seats, step into the hall. And now we put to the vote the Supreme Council's Order on Distrust of the Attorney General of Ukraine to Pshonzi W.P. (Decision number 4170). Are we ready to vote? Ready. I'm asking you to put an order to the vote. Who's in? [[13:27:46]] For 247 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Procurator-General Pshonka no longer has the right to carry out his duties. According to our information, he's been missing from the Attorney General's Office for several days. By factions, please show the results of the vote. Dear national deputies, there is a request for a further decision now. And I would like to give the word to the faction leaders and groups of national MPs so that we can define ourselves with the regime of our future work. Why? Because right now we really need to work with the executive authorities that need help and restore their function. We need to ensure the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and there are many issues related to the life - sustaining of our nation. That's why, dear fellows, before I give the floor to the people's deputies, the factions' leaders and the groups about the further working regime of our Parliament, I ask you, I request each of you. In view of the absence of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic in Kiev. The President's administration will not inform us where he is or why he is absent in either Ukraine or Kiev, I would like to ask, colleagues of honour, and national deputies, and employees of the President's Administration to immediately find out where Viktor Yanukovitch is, so that we can understand about the signing of laws and the future prospects of communication with Yanukovitch Viktor Fedorovich. In view of the fact that, unfortunately, the laws that we have passed with you are not signed, and one of them refers to a particular person, particularly the life of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko, because of our information about her life, there is a danger, which is why, dear colleagues, I ask for support from the Supreme Council's draft decree on the implementation of Ukraine's international obligations regarding Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirivni. — Decree No. 4166. Can I put it in the agenda? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can. Please, Your Honor, vote for inclusion in the agenda of this ruling. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Who's in? Please vote. [[13:30:31]] For 309 Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear friends! Is there a need to report the verdict? [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask immediately, without discussion, to put to the vote Order of the Supreme Council (4166) on the fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations to liberate Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna. Please, Your Honor, vote. Who's in favour, please vote. Please. Sorry, I haven't learned yet. People's deputies, please determine how to vote. That's right. Please activate the "Work" system. [[13:31:19]] For 322 Thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, we have not finished our work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Please prepare for the presentations by the leaders of factions and leaders of the parliamentary groups on the further regulation of our Parliament's work. And now people's deputies are insisting that I announce a message, more faithfully, an announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Rules and according to personal claims, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of National Deputies of Ukraine: One Alexander Josephovich, Heržova Yuri Ivanovich, Kinach Anatolia Kirilovich, Kuzmuk Aleksandra Ivanovich, Kruglov Mikoli Petrovich, Tabojnika Jakov Pinevic. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you sign up for the speech and we have determined our further activities in the Supreme Council. Please sign in. I'm asking from the faction of the Miroshnichenko Yuri Regional Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today we have had a hard day with you, he's sad, on the one hand, and he's reassuring if we can keep the situation under control. At present, we do not have prepared and agreed decisions that could unite the hall. I propose to close the session now and, after the Conciliation Board of factions, resume it the following week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u203	Please, from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please, from the "Freedom" faction, Oleg Jaroslavovich Tahnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u204	Respectable Society! I think that the revolutionary pace of Parliament's work cannot be stopped, we have to keep working. But of course, we need time, a short time, to consult the faction leaders so that we can bring harmonized and legally based bills into the hall. What Freedom is proposing today, and what is now being submitted for registration, is to vote on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the return of the government residence of Medjugorje to state property. Moreover, there is already a people in the territory of Mezigir. And the main thing is to solve the issue of removing Yanukovich from power. And this needs to be legalized and put to a vote in Parliament today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u205	Oh, one more. One more thing while there's time. So we are now preparing a decree to eliminate the special unit "Berkut" and to form it on the basis of, indeed, a national patriotic structure that will carry out the respective tasks of the people, not a separate regime. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u206	Please, from the strike faction. Dear colleagues, while the faction. Please turn on the microphone. Turn on Mr. Rosenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u207	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, we have a very high rate of activity today. But on the other hand, we need to understand clearly that we need agreed decisions today for further consideration in the Supreme Council. Decisions that will continue to raise 300 or more votes. So I'd like you to listen to me now, Alexander Valentinovich. Right now, I can't see the point of stopping work, and we can't see. We have to keep working. Please gather the faction leaders, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, all the interested persons and quickly, literally for 15-20 minutes, please consider a list of issues that we need to consider very carefully today. As long as there are national MPs, while there is an opportunity today to make constitutional decisions, until the final authority is established in Ukraine, the national authority in Ukraine, we should work and work here in the session hall. So please take the initiative, agree on the draft documents, agree on the plans for our work, and we are ready to continue working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u208	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the next offer. I'm asking you to listen. We really need to do a lot of things right now. At the same time, I would very much like Parliament to enter into the normal course of work, if we do not vote, we will vote on decisions that will be prepared, distributed to the people's deputies, etc. Because this is the Parliament of Ukraine, and we should be worthy to represent and represent it with you. Plus, we need to make immediate decisions about protecting the lives of citizens, about other functions of the state that are unfortunately not being implemented temporarily. That's why, honourable national MPs, I'm asking you to take a break with me in 16 hours. Right now, the heads of factions and MPs are going to meet in the Head of the Supreme Council, we're going to set up a plan of work with you, and we're going to set the agenda for the day's priority issues. Parliament must work steadily, work when it comes to Sundays and Saturdays every day. Is such an offer accepted? Such an offer is accepted. A break of 16 hours is announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to come into the session room. And now, I hope we have very important information. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u210	Honorable National MPs, announcements. According to part of the third article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to personal statements made, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of People's Deputies of Ukraine by Žuka Mikoli Vasilovich, Iljuka Artemija Alexandrovich, Saldo Vladimir Vasilovic and Truhanova Gennadija Leonidovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u211	Honourable National Deputies, Announcements: In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with personal statements made, I report the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of People's Deputies of Ukraine Pressman Aleksandr Semenović and Kruk Jurija Borisovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u212	Honorable National MPs, announcements. Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to cancel the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the termination of payment of salaries to the Ukrainian national deputies Balozi and Dombrovski. Cancel the Order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of July 03, 2013 No.1435 on the termination of payment of salaries to the Ukrainian national deputies Balozi and Dombrowski. That's an order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Part of the termination, No.1767, at the end of payment and cancellation of ballot cards for Baloza and Dombrowski. Zajchuku, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to decide on the return of the ballot card to Balozi P.I., Dombrowski O.G.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u213	In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and according to personal claims, I report the withdrawal from the Party of National Deputies of Ukraine: Mironenko Mikhail Ivanovich, Stoyan Alexandr Mikolaiovich, Kuzmenka Sergija Anatoliyovich, National Deputy of Barwinenka, National Deputy of Misika and National Deputy Billowol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u214	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats. We'll keep working with you. And I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies who are in the towers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to make very responsible decisions with you, decisions that determine the stability of the situation in our country. And the main issue that concerns the entire Ukrainian people today, which depends on how quickly we can bring order to the country, is the issue related to President Janukovic of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich. I would like to inform the distinguished national MPs that about 14 hours later, Victor Yanukovich's phone was found. In the presence of the National Deputies, Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk spoke to him, and he invited President Yanukovic to write an application for his resignation immediately, which he agreed to. But after he agreed and probably consulted with others, he began to refute this information. In particular, it was refuted by his press service in a pre-recorded video. The people of Ukraine, our country, cannot depend on the attitude of the president who has moved away from his duties and is in an unknown place. It is precisely, honourable members of the people, that you are being examined by a decree registered under number 4193, the Supreme Council's decree on self-removal of the President of Ukraine from the exercise of constitutional powers and the appointment of extraordinary elections by the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I propose to include this ruling in the agenda of the Supreme Council. By your commission then I will read its text, and the Supreme Council must decide to make the decision Ukraine is waiting for. Please sit in your seats, prepare for the vote, include the Council system, and please, colleagues, decide on the inclusion of Decree 4193, the name of which I have announced, in the order of today's session. Please vote. [[17:09:14]] For 317 [[Applause]] Dear people's deputies, we haven't made a decision yet, we've just put it in the order of the day. 317 votes for. The order is included in the agenda. The decision was taken by Parliament. On your instructions, I would like to announce the text of this decree. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the self-removal of the President of Ukraine from the exercise of constitutional powers and the appointment of successive elections by the President of Ukraine. "According to the fact that President Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine has withdrawn from the exercise of constitutional powers that threatens the leadership of the State, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, the massive violation of the rights and freedoms of citizens, on the basis of the circumstances of extreme necessity, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, expressing the sovereign will of the Ukrainian people, decrees: First. To establish that the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovich, in an unconstitutional way, has withdrawn from the exercise of constitutional powers and has failed to perform his duties. The other one. In accordance with paragraph 7 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, appoint the President of Ukraine's presidential election on May 25, 2014. And the third. This decision has become effective since its adoption." Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this decision, or will we immediately vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to vote now. I ask, Your Honor, to vote on the Order (4193) "On the self-determination of the President of Ukraine from the exercise of constitutional powers and the appointment of extraordinary elections by the President of Ukraine." I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[(Noise in the hall) (Applause)]] [[17:11:55]] For 328 Decision taken. [[Applause]] [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] I am truly grateful to all the national deputies for their civic responsibilities. I am convinced that our decision is supported by the entire Ukrainian people. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to record for the transcript that the decision has been taken as a basis and as a whole a constitutional number of national MPs. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I have now held a meeting with the heads of the state authorities, the state authorities, who are working under very difficult conditions. At the same time, we need to strengthen their work and direct their work. In particular, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Defence. The problem is that according to the Constitution that you and I have restored, these positions are still being submitted at the initiative of the President. In this case, the Security Service approves the Parliament, and the Secretary of Defense votes in favour. That's why we can't do things here like the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And in order to coordinate the work of these structures, to coordinate the work, there is a proposal to appoint those authorized by this very important authority. In particular, if you do not object, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the appointment of Mr. Nastawajchenka Vladimir Aleksandrovič, Commissioner for the Control of the Security Service of Ukraine, will be brought to your attention. [[Applause]] If you do not object, we may include this decision in the order of the day and vote on it. Please, dear fellows. Who is it that the Order (No.4191) on the appointment of the Commissioner for Control of the Security Service of Ukraine should be placed in the order of the day of our meeting. Please vote. [[17:16:53]] For 296 Dear colleagues, "yes" to 296. Decision taken. I'm asking for the opportunity to announce this ruling. "According to the actual self-removal of the President of Ukraine from the exercise of his powers, recognizing the responsibility for the situation in Ukraine, including the need to ensure Ukraine's national security, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 22, of the first part of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides: Designate Mr. Nadjajchenka Valentina Aleksandrovitch as the Commissioner for Control of the Security Service of Ukraine." This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Can we vote without discussing it? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can. I ask you to put this decision and vote for it as a whole. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[17:18:00]] For 299 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Honorable National MPs. Before the decision is taken, let us give the floor to the Supreme Council Commissioner for Security Control. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u215	Dear Ukrainians, honourable national MPs, I believe that the security of every Ukrainian, regardless of where we are, is now important for national security. Therefore, I am now asking for the support of the entire Ukrainian Parliament in the subsequent decisions that are essential for the security of every Ukrainian citizen. First and main decision. The entire Security Service, all weapons, all units are to return immediately to the duty station. Thank you. [[Applause]] The second decision. Please support the Parliament, all the Ukrainians who can hear and see us today, please and I am addressing the entire Security Service College and now, as the Powered Supreme Council, immediately open the hospital of the Security Service, hospital, dining room, help people, treat all those who turn to us. Address number two. From all over the Supreme Council, I ask you to support, open all the Security Service operating phones, the queue, collect all the information where every Ukrainian is located, report to each Ukrainian family a hot line of phones where you can and need to call around the clock to find out the fate, to provide legal assistance, to ensure the safety of a Ukrainian citizen. Thank you, Supreme Council, if you vote for this decision. Please, Mr. Head, it is okay to vote in favour of this decision for all of us, all of us national deputies. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u216	Dear friends, I think we'll make a protocol decision for the Supreme Council, won't we? Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. Similarly, a draft Ordinance on the appointment of Zamana to the Minister of Defense for Control. You know, it's a combat general who runs the department headquarters who's willing to fully organize the work from this very responsible department. I can't hear you, my friends. Your screams are out of place. Let's put it in the order of the day. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the inclusion of this order in the agenda of our sitting. Please vote. [[17:21:57]] For 299 [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I was reminded that Vladimir Mikhailovich was not only a staff officer and a general, but he also took a civil position by refusing to carry out criminal orders. It's also very important. [[Applause]] We haven't made a decision yet, my friends, we haven't taken it yet. I'm asking you, colleagues, national deputies, please sit down. And now let's make a decision. "To" is 299. We put it in the agenda, the decision was made. And now we're going to vote on this decision with you. Order of the Supreme Council on the appointment of Zamana Vladimir Mikhailovich as the Authorized Supreme Council to monitor the activities of the Ministry of Defence. "According to the actual self-removal of the President of Ukraine from the exercise of his powers, recognizing the responsibility for the situation in Ukraine, including the need to ensure Ukraine's national security, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to appoint Zamana Vladimir Mikhailovich as High Council Commissioner for the Control of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted." May we vote, Your Honor? Please decide how to vote. Turn on the "Race" system. On the ground and in general, please. [[17:23:50]] For 306 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, a few words, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u217	Dear National Deputies! I thank you very much for the trust you have just given me. I myself, like all members of the Armed Forces, have taken an oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine and we will do it as much as we will go through the ministry. I assure you that the Armed Forces will be a reliable defender of our Fatherland and will not allow these attempts to separate the separation of our nation. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u218	Dear friends, I'm about to have another decision. I'd like to consult you about the schedule for our further work. In particular, there is a proposal to vote now on Order No. 4197 concerning the Prosecutorial Commissioner. And so that we can give our colleagues the opportunity to work, work, what we agreed on in order to restore all the institutions. And I'll meet you tomorrow at 10:00. I would like us to be factions while we now vote on the ruling, discuss this issue, and we have made the right decision with you. So, dear fellows, pay attention! Ordinance (4197) on the appointment of Mr. Oleg Igorevich, Commissioner for the supervision of the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Taking into account the self-removal of the President of Ukraine from the exercise of its powers and aware of the responsibility for the situation in Ukraine, including the need to ensure the rule of law and national security of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to appoint Mr. Knavenik Oleg Igorevich, Commissioner for Control of the activities of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. This decision has become effective since its adoption." When the content of the decision is clear, I ask that the honourable colleagues vote on the inclusion of this decree in the agenda. Please decide how to vote. Turn on the council. [[17:27:23]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us take a decision as a whole without discussion. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. Order 4197. Vote. [[17:27:57]] For 296 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Welcome to Oleg Igorovich. [[Applause]] Oleg Igorovich, please on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u219	Thank you for your confidence. I think that, being in this position that I am entrusted with, I will do everything I can to ensure that the prosecutor's office in Ukraine actually meets the standards that are in Europe, in the European community, that it stands, in fact, for the protection of the rights of a citizen, first of all, of the interests of the state, and that our state, indeed, is a European state. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-22-m0.u220	Dear National Deputies! I would especially ask the experts in the Rules to advise us how we can do better. There are two options: we can close today's meeting and meet tomorrow at 10 o'clock, or just call a break by 10 o'clock in the morning. I'm gonna take a break. Dear colleagues! The interruption of our activities is announced by 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. I thank all the national deputies for their responsibilities. Glory to Ukraine! I'm asking, my fellow Members, attention, I'm addressing the members of the Freedom faction, the Fatherland and the Strike, the request that people be tense, along with our colleagues from other factions, please leave Parliament and help everyone calmly, organized to get out and organized tomorrow, and I hope we'll meet tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Thank you very much. Good-bye.
