ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to sit down. Good morning, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I'm asking the National Deputies to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:18:16]] There were 402 national deputies registered in the hall. Therefore, the second plenary session of the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! You can see that the first president of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, president of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, is taking part in today's plenary session. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Come on, we're in the higher legislature of the state. I think that's what I'm saying. So let's think about it this way. I give the floor to the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, of the Supreme Council. And then let's define by our work. Please, Leonid Makarovich. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen of the people, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! For my long political and not just political life, I had to stand on this rostrum and in difficult times and in more pleasant times. But today is the most responsible talk and the most responsible time. And I want you to hear one of my sentences: not to listen to him that speaks, but to hear what he says. If we approach our meeting in this way, we will have no political predictions; we will listen to the situation that has taken place in the State. And the situation, let's speak plainly, is dramatic. The whole world admits, and Ukraine admits that the state is on the verge of civil war. He's in a two-man country. In fact, there is a rebellion in the country. Very quickly, our stock grew from protest to rebellion. When power is seized — the fact that power and the authorities defined by the Constitution fall — are released naturally from their duties, it is clear that it is a downsizing of power. It's just a revolution about the overthrow of power. And that's what it takes. It's not something that's so extraordinary, it's just things have to be called your names, nothing else. And then it'll all be clear. So now we have a dramatic situation, and we have a very responsible attitude toward Ukraine. As the person who signed all of them, I would stress, without exception, that I would set up documents on the formation of this state, as the person who initiated the creation with the Supreme Council of the State, I have a special responsibility, a special responsibility. We had an agreement with Leonid Danilovich, who would speak, and he entrusted me. I am also carrying out the mandate of the President of Ukraine, who has been in power for 10 years in Ukraine and has done a great deal to make this state happen today. What I think is necessary today could be done to stop the breakdown of government governance in order to stop the situation from unfolding in the face of civil war. First. We've got to get the other side apart. Simply divorce them by telling people that there is a plan that agrees with the President with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's exit from the political crisis. And this plan to draw, people are smart and they will realize that if we agree on the plan and step by step we're going to move towards a reduction in resistance or a decrease in resistance, people will agree to it and they'll meet. What could be included in this plan? Well, first of all. Thank God, yesterday the Supreme Council had already begun to implement a specific plan. Since there is a big plan, the road is already open to the front, now all the bays must be cleared of the road. Yesterday, the laws adopted on January 16 were abolished. We will not now talk about laws or their quality, nor will we. Then we'll go very far. They canceled, and thank God. Other laws were passed. Today the Amnesty Law is to be adopted. He's ready. You got him. They say there are several laws. But from our experience, I know, if there's a few, then, first of all, there may be none taken, but second of all, some of the deputies don't vote, and there's a lot of people behind that. So I think the vote should be consolidated. When major serious political crises are resolved, the vote can only be consolidated - to adopt this law. Thus, the law will open the way for those who are under guard to be released, the administrative facilities to be released, roads to be unlocked, and people to live and work and to take the next steps. So let's say I support the constitutional reform process. You already know I'm the Head of the Constitutional Assembly. I don't want to say right now what the Constitutional Assembly has done, but I want to inform you, MPs. We have two options: a presidential-parliamentary option and a parliamentary-presidential option. Make a commission, we'll hand over the work. We can work with you, we can not work together, it's whatever you want. Your will and only the Supreme Council can change, make changes to the Constitution -- no one else. But it's strictly in line with chapter XIII of the Constitution. What the Constitutional Court did then, I did then, and now I'm speaking, he's out of his jurisdiction. [[Applause]] What could the Constitutional Court do that would be wise? To put, say, yes, there have been violations of the Constitution such as these, we're sending to the Supreme Council to correct the Supreme Council, not to correct it. That's impossible. This is an excess, I repeat, an excess. But if the Constitutional Court did not do well, did it move away from the 13th chapter of the Constitution -- that is true, is it now that the opposition must act in the same way that the Constitutional Court did? [[Applause]] None. What's more, she'll be told, she's even, excuse me, less smart, because she's no longer learned from the stupid decisions, sorry for not the parliamentary word. So I propose to create a commission and start a process of reforming the state and governance on the basis of the Constitution that has already been adopted. But you won't do it in one week, will you? Don't do that. The court should be removed from the Constitution. The Court has one constitutional mandate: to determine whether new provisions in the Constitution narrow down rights and freedoms or not. That's him, that's him. And to accept it is accepted by the Supreme Council. So let's put it all in our place. And it's gonna be okay, believe me. Only one more thing I invite you to do is to try to trust each other. If the parliamentary majority put opposition on their knees, not to listen, not to accept, because we can do anything, nothing will work. But if the opposition puts ultimatums, it won't work either. An ultimatum is a waste. That's what everyone understands. It's the Soviet armies in Potsdam who put an ultimatum before Germany because they won, and there's no troops, there's national MPs. Let's trust each other. That's why I call for trust. To believe that Ukraine is more important than any ambition. Believe it and make sure that Ukraine opens the way to reform, to everything and to do it together, no one will do it for us. What a proposition I have for you. I know there's a mistrust between the opposition and the President, and it's, in general, very deep. And people's deputies from the opposition, as well as from the authorities, may think that someone is knee-deep. Well, we know what he's talking about. I propose as a person, and I repeat again, which stood at the star of independence and did what I could not do to take foreigners, or I alone, or Leonid Danilovich and I, we act as guarantors. In what way? We go out to the people and we say, well, the opposition and the President or the authorities have agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u3	And we say, we made a deal, and we're doing this deal. Whoever doesn't, the people will know. It's simple, there's no difficulty if we want to. So I want to ask you people to think about one thing: only you and the President can solve the issues that are dramatic in Ukraine today. Only you can decide and open the way to genuine constitutional reform, to the adoption of a well-balanced Presidential Election Act, a normal Law on the Election of People's Deputies, because the parliamentary-presidential republic cannot exist without a proportional voting system. So everything has to be one step at a time. To do that, I suggest you write a plan: step one, step two, step three, step four. Make this plan known to Ukraine. And then we're going to go to this plan, and we're going to do every single point of the plan together. And then the people will say, In a great and heavy time the Supreme Council has come to realize that there is no other way, she has listened to herself. And as Vasil Simonenko wrote, "Let America and Russia remain silent when I speak with Ukraine." Let's start talking to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u4	Let us thank Leonid Makarovich for the meaningful presentation and so necessary today for the society and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Amnesty Act is a very important law. I'm saying yesterday and today, there's still a few things I don't agree with. Therefore, factions are being negotiated. I'll call it a 14-hour break. At 14 o'clock, I ask very, very much, all the national deputies to participate in the continuation of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll be there in 14 hours. I invite the faction leaders to the office. Please join Igor Jeremeyev in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u5	Faction leaders, listen. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, don't shout, listen. [[B in m in s a l in]] A working group of faction leaders and experts are now continuing to work on a bill to eliminate the negative consequences and to prevent the persecution and punishment of persons in connection with the events that took place during peaceful meetings. These negotiations are going well enough, and we hope that at 16 o'clock we will be able to vote on the bill. I'll call it a break in 16 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I'm asking for your attention. We're continuing today's session. The Conciliation Council prepared two bills and agreed them with all the factions. These are the bills relating to amnesty and the TSC, the TSC commission for constitutional reform. These two bills are agreed upon. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! Now these bills are being circulated, about 15-20 minutes, and in 20 minutes they will be put out for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It takes about 20 minutes for this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues! The Conciliation Council of factions has passed four laws that are in the Supreme Council concerning amnesty. Four laws. But questions were raised that still needed to be reconciled. And today there is nothing to put to the vote in the Supreme Council. There's an offer. There's an offer: Tomorrow morning faction leaders will continue consultations. That's what all the faction leaders agreed. Then 10 o'clock. [[B in m in s a l in]] At ten o'clock. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're the one who's gonna yell at your leaders, not all the deputies! Listen, I'll give you the information and then you'll scream. So within 10 hours, faction leaders will answer in their factions. At ten o'clock, everyone is meeting in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. At 11 o’clock, the proposal is made: Continue the session, the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept tomorrow, the third day tomorrow will be the negotiations, the adoption of the Amnesty Laws. I'd like you to vote in favour of tomorrow's session at 11 a.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u9	Vote! Vote! Vote your proposals! Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u10	Don't scream. I'm asking the faction leaders to come to me. I say again, listen calmly. The faction leaders made an agreement tomorrow at 11 a.m. If the proposal works today, I'm asking the faction leaders here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u11	Your decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, listen to the faction leaders, they will now make a concerted offer. I'll put her to the vote. Today – so today we will make decisions. Tomorrow is tomorrow, as it will be. Calm down, sit down, let's settle all the questions right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] You agree with the offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I put the vote to continue work today until the adoption of the Amnesty Law. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[18:09:09]] For three hundred Against 0, held – 1, not voted – 51. Decision taken. The factions. The faction of the Party of the Regions is 151, Fatherland is 76, Vitalia Klicka is 37, Freedom is 34, the Company is 28, non-fractional is 31. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We made a decision. I'm going to announce 10 minutes and I'm going to agree with the faction leaders and all four laws are due to be considered in 10 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a 10-minute recess. Faction leaders (let's say two means two) please come into the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-01-29-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! We're moving on. I'm asking you to sit down, calm down. Let me remind you that yesterday we passed Bill No. 4007 on recognition of certain laws of Ukraine. We also agreed today to consider removing the negative effects and avoiding persecution and punishment of those involved in peaceful meetings. Therefore, I propose to take an ad hoc decision on voting on drafts without discussion. May I have the people's deputies vote, please? [[22:45:25]] For 227 Against 22, held – 2, not voted – 170. Decision taken. I'm betting on draft Law 4021-3 for adoption as a basis and as a whole. This project is agreed upon by all factions. Please vote. [[22:46:02]] For 232 Against - 11, held - 0, unvoted - 173. Decision taken. I declare the seventh call closed for the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Until the meeting of the 4th February fourth session of the Supreme Council.
