ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Dear National Deputies! Please register. Turn on the "Race" system, please. [[10:03:14]] There were 266 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues! You know very well that on May 9, in many regions of Ukraine, provocations were being prepared. But the holidays and weekends, except for the two areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, in all other regions: both Kharkiv and Odessa, and in other areas, have gone decently and peacefully. The Russian Federation’s plans to destabilize the situation in Ukraine failed during the holidays. At the same time, distinguished national deputies, in Donetsk, Lugansk, are continuing the activities of numerous terrorist groups. They kill people, torture people, kidnap Ukrainian citizens, act presumptuously. And in order to stop these crimes, the Ukrainian authorities are continuing an antiterrorist operation, whose purpose, once again, I emphasize, is to protect the lives and health of our citizens. Today the situation in the north of the Lugansk region, in western Donbas, in the south of the Donetsk region, is stabilizing. But as a result of the acts of terrorist groups that have tried to cover up their criminal anti-human actions, to make a farce called "referendum" to cover up their crimes, but the result of this farce is only one – the criminal responsibility of those who organized it. At the same time, I repeat that as a result of the criminal acts of terrorist groups, officers and soldiers of the Armed Forces and forces, including civilians, are killed. I ask, honourable deputies, a moment of silence to mention with respect the memory of these people. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. I want to inform the people's deputies that today the government delegation, led by the Prime Minister, is working in Brussels, where it is planned to sign very important documents. In particular, the deal to provide Ukraine with a sufficiently serious financial resource — 1 billion 600 million euros. In addition, a simplified visa regime for Ukraine will be discussed. Dear colleagues, but in order for Ukrainians to travel without a car in the near future, Parliament must adopt very important laws today. First of all, these are laws that deal with the fight against corruption. In addition, we now have planned issues related to economic deregulation, issues related to strengthening the security of our country, increasing the responsibility of citizens for serious crimes, and so forth. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we have a very serious and responsible job today. I request that, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, I sign up for the statements of the heads and representatives of the MPs and groups. Please turn on the "Council" system and record. As long as the national MPs are recording, I, traditionally, want to inform you that today is the birthday of the national MP, Lilia Mikhailovna Greenevich. Let's welcome her. [[Applause]] From the "Fatherland" faction, National Deputy Sobolev. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I think the events of the last days are events that confirm one key old truth: "If you don't want to feed your own army, you will feed someone else." And I think that the key things that have happened in a number of regions, especially I would like to highlight the situation that has occurred with the so-called pseudoferendums that have tried to advertise in an unconstitutional, illegal way in two areas: Donetsk and Lugansk. This is a waste of proof of what happens in the country when those who start to provoke first for decentralization, then for federalization, and then for the division of the country and the disunity of the individual regions, it always ends in tragedy for those ordinary Ukrainians who are involved in these oppositions. And I think that the millions of our citizens who want a clear position today, both local and central, and the answers to the question about the possibility of regional, local development, the ability to answer the key questions that concern people today: wages, pensions, ultimately, are being used by political adventurers who are trying to use millions of citizens as cannonballs in solving their political opposition. That's why our faction offers a day-to-day proposal for this week and for the next week a series of issues that will address the real situation in the social sphere, in the area of human rights protection. And our proposal is completely open and clear. We've proposed a series of bills that will allow us to stop the office of officials wherever these officials are: Donetsk or Kiev, Lugansk or Ivano-Frankish, which will answer the key question: what to do first is with the massive unwarranted checks that are going on today's small and medium-sized business; what to do with the excessive taxes that small and medium-sized businesses are forced to pay in the form of bribes, except for the official payments that they are making. That's why we've taken the legislative initiative to stop any small and medium-sized business checks for the next four years that allow for civil liberties that actually allow for the introduction of a system of official and unofficial bribes. In addition, we have introduced a bill that allows today to resolve the issue of budgetary debt to representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, which is made up of millions of our citizens. And these are the issues that are urgent to solve the social package that allows us to look directly into our citizens' eyes today. Furthermore, we would like to inform you that the initiative of our faction and of a number of factions of Parliament today has entered into legal force. I mean the Amnesty Act and almost 15,000 of our citizens, who from this day forward can be released after that aberration, the terror that Janukovic and his environment have had in the last four years. It is these citizens who have suffered political persecution in a seemingly economic way that they will be free from today, and I think this is our answer, how we respond to the challenges of today. So two questions are important to us today. It's not just questions that are being asked today, but decentralization, that's regional governance, that's the possibility of extended local self-government, but it's the fight against corruption, and it's the fight against civil strife. And I think these are the challenges that we have to answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Donny's national deputy from the "North European Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen! As the Supreme Council, we should be grateful to all those who now stand for the territorial integrity of Ukraine in the East. And it's not just the representatives of the power structures, it's the citizens who are going to take action against terror, it's the whole region of Ukraine that have allowed themselves not to have this pseudoferendum, and it's Swatovo, it's Novopskows. And we have to protect these regions of Lugansk and Donetskina, where there was no pseudoferendum, from ethnic cleansing. At the same time, we need to understand that, apart from the protection system, there must be State authorities and normal oversight of those who help separatists. So I remind you what I said on the Conciliation Council. We had a statement by the deputy from Valerius Moshensky's group that he specifically accused one of the members of the Party of Regions, specifically Mr. Ephraim, of funding separatists. As far as I am concerned, the Office of the Attorney General must examine each such statement carefully. Because people who help separatists, including financially, are destroying our state. That's why we have to prevent any funding. And I'm glad there's a bill of 4822 today that's all about criminal responsibility for financing separatism. At the same time, I have to say that the mess in the state will continue if we have a mess in the Supreme Council: now all the deputies are standing, they say they don't want to listen. Gentlemen, how many times do we say that we have nine co-conspirators who violate the Constitution? As an MP, we demand that they be deprived of their office today, and we have talked about this repeatedly, and I am specifically responsible for this. This question was raised when there were no votes, today there are. If this question is not put to the vote today, there is a specific responsible one – the Head of the Supreme Council. Gentlemen, we need to start learning from ourselves! The next question is, "buttoning." One MP, one vote! Deputies are not Gentiles, MPs are citizens! You have to understand that the separatists who issued the ballots on the pseudoferendum in a few hands are doing the same thing right now by those MPs who are voting on a number of cards. What are you, Gentiles? No, sirs, one man, one vote, one deputy, one man, one vote. We demand, if not today, that the Labazuk Bill and other MPs be put in place on Thursday: a sensory button. I'm sorry, today's authorities, when they were in opposition, talked about the sensor button all the time, and now what, you forget? Is it possible to button now? And here's the thing: social issues. I signed the papers three times on the Conciliation Council so that the social bills would be put in order of the day, and they were gone. Yesterday, some bills are being tabled -- and they're in order of the day, and bills are the initiative of MP Timoshenko 4695, 4692 -- and they're not being introduced. And I'll tell you why they don't, because it's about raising the standard of living. We understand, we need to understand that separatism also has a social base. We have to make it clear that the government gave incorrect figures when it came to 14 or how much inflation there is. Now look at what happens in a month, how inflation degrades. You want to do an experiment? You don't want to raise the minimum of living, let's do the experiment now. And who's been driving public transport in the last week, subways, taxis, trolleybusses, raise your hand. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. 12, 14 - 16 deputies from 450. Yeah, that's enough? Gentlemen, do you know that the taxi route has been traveling twice as much? Don't you want to know, and that's why you don't want to raise the minimum of living? We demand that Bills 4695, 4692 and Lithuania be put to the vote. Otherwise, I don't understand why we're going to the Conciliation Council. The Conciliation Board is what, just a couple's release? We have our drafts there, and they don't vote. Is that the Supreme Council? Is that serious? I don't understand such a setup on the Supreme Council. It's not just criticism, it's analysis that we have a systemic crisis in the coalition and the Supreme Council. We need to get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u5	Thank you. I'm the only one who wants to inform Donny's National Deputy that we also need to look not only at Tuesday, but at other days, at the agenda. The laws you're talking about are 4695, 4692 are included in Wednesday's agenda. So I'd like to first learn the order of the day and then make critical remarks. From the faction of the Party of Regions, who will act? Please, National Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u6	Dear fellow MPs! Regrettably, with deep concern and sorrow, we have to note that power has never understood what is happening and what has happened in the past weekends in the east of Ukraine. I never realized that there was a real threat of civil war in Ukraine today in the East. An anti-terrorist operation, called an anti-terrorist operation, has become a terrorist operation organized by the authorities against their people. Tonight in Krasnoarmeysk, where private money came into being -- so-called "peaceful" in the coffeehouses of the activists from Maidan with guns in their hands, simply outspoken bandits -- they called it the Dnepr battalion, which I emphasize, is financed by private money that makes access to the territory of the Donetsk region and kills people. Tonight, miners were killed — simple labourers who fell from the bullets of the bandits. And this is already a terrorist operation against its people. Second. You don't want to admit it for some reason, and I know why a plebiscite went through in the east of Ukraine. Yes, there are legal issues, and we can argue about the legitimacy of this referendum. But this referendum is of great political importance. If even you, Mr. Turkin, listen to what you said voted, only 30 per cent of the population of Donbass, I would like to remind you that this 2.5 million people have expressed their will -- that is more than the Baltic States. In every country in the world, 2.5 million people are the real force to be and to be heard by the authorities. You forced the opposition to listen to tens of thousands of people on Maidan. You've been talking all over the world about us listening to tens of thousands of protestors on Maidan. Here, 2.5 million have expressed their will in an organized manner. People came to polling stations, lists were drawn up, passports rolled up, it was real will. And people voted. Don't call them separatists, don't call them bandits, they voted against you, they don't want to live in one country with a gang. with a gang of nationalists. They do not want to live in the same country where barricades have still been installed, where neo-Nazi armed gangs continue to operate, which are being sent on punitive expeditions to the east. We demand that we listen to the views of the people immediately. We need to stop a punitive operation in the east. We demand to prevent immediately the threat of the collapse of the country and civil war, to sit at the round table, to negotiate, otherwise today, Mr. Turkinov, Nathuajchenko, Avakov, you will be personally responsible for the lives of married people in Odessa, for the blood spilled in the east, for all those killed. We don't want to live in the same country with the neo-Nazis and the bandits. [[B in m in s a l in]] We call for an immediate transition to a round table and an immediate one. immediate reforms on decentralization of power, delimitation of powers between Kiev and the regions. [[B in m in s a l in]] People demanded the sovereignty of the Donetsk region. People want suggestions, give them suggestions on why they should stay in that country. Convince them that in this country the population of south-east Ukraine will live comfortably. Convince them that these rules will be for the whole country and not dictated by one part of civil society in favour of another. It's not supposed to be like that. Everyone has to live comfortably. There are no separatists in the East, no bandits in the East, there are people in the East who want to live in their country. Therefore, there is still an immediate negotiating table, immediate compromise and immediate reform of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I want to tell Mr. Lewchenk that fascists are the ones who slow down the stomachs of patriots who kill parents in front of a child, who kill a priest, who kidnaps people every day and tortures people. These are the fascists you applaud and speak for. And you're going to have to answer, and you're also going to have to answer for the fact that these fascists who are torturing people in the East today, you actually led them to take up arms. [[Applause]] Since Economic Development, the word is given to the People's Deputy of Kinach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u8	You started to comment on me. I'm entitled to a line!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u9	Sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u10	I'm entitled to a line. You started to comment on me. I'm entitled to a line!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u11	I'm in charge of a meeting. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u12	You've commented on me. I'm entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u13	Take your seats. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u14	I say again, I have the right to a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u15	I didn't call your last name. Please take your seats. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u16	You've commented on me. I'm entitled to a lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u17	Put your hand up. I'll look into your question. Please take your seats. [[General Discussion]] Dear colleagues, when we're done with the performances, we'll give you a chance to do the replica. After the performances have been completed! Please take your seat. After the performances have been completed, the hands are raised for replication. Please! I would like to say once again, dear colleagues, that the speeches will be over, and we will give you the opportunity to speak. The performance will end, and I'll give you a chance to do the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u18	Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u19	I'm working on the Rules. Please take your seats. The speech is over, I'll give you a line. Please! Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u20	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking everyone to take off their emotions. Ukraine, our statehood, territorial integrity are under unprecedented political, economic, military pressure by the Russian Federation. And the great sin and the crime is that Kremlin writers have activated scenarios that, based on information war, the destruction of mentality, the destruction of historical memory, destroy the mutual respect, the trust between the Ukrainian and Russian nations. However, a major crime is being committed against those who are making an attempt to break up Ukrainian society. And it's very important in this most responsible situation when we're under pressure from external and internal scenarios that are aimed at deepening civil conflicts with elements of civil war, trying to create an even deeper systemic socio-economic crisis. When peaceful people die, the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people as a whole should be as consolidated as possible. A great tragedy is that peaceful people die. And certainly, all those guilty of the death of peaceful people must be punished. At the same time, those who illegally commit crimes on Ukrainian soil must be severely punished. In this, the primary function of the state is to protect the lives and security of its citizens. It is necessary, and the Economic Development MPs are focusing your attention on the following: that today the internal risks -- and the beginning of our session confirms this -- pose no less major threats to the statehood of Ukraine than the external ones. The Unconsolidated Supreme Council, the very serious manifestations of corruption schemes, the attempt to hunt for witches and the search for enemies in their own state, the loss of modern information policy, which would be aimed at protecting national interests and consolidating society -- all of these factors, I stress again, are no less dangerous than external ones. It is up to us, therefore, to what extent Ukraine is able to cope with these risks, which are beyond national security and threaten our future. We need complex measures: political, diplomatic, socio-economic, informational. And everyone has to work in the interests of the state. It's very important, and I'm also stressing this, that we need to restore dialogue with society. The fact that the so-called referendums in the East have no legal effect is a fact. But it is very important to form a dialogue with people who lose confidence in the future who do not see the state’s ability to protect their lives. And because tomorrow we're starting a series of national round tables where representatives of all regions of Ukraine are supposed to participate, authoritative, morally, intellectually well-known people in Ukraine, it's very important. And the principle is that this is not only in Kiev but also in the territories. We need to learn to listen to people and to work for them. We're talking to the government. The positive fact is that we have renewed the interaction and cooperation between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund. This enables us to strengthen our financial system and protect our citizens. But we need to do internal affairs, the internal market: avoid raiding, do not destroy the investment climate. They are of fundamental importance to clear programs to prevent the socio-economic collapse both in the East and in the South East. Dozens of businesses are stopped. Clear software actions are required. And all of this, apart from us, no one can do. Only our intelligence, our will and our work for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u21	From the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union, the word is given to Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u22	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Ukrainian brothers and sisters! Today, in Donbas, gangs of armed terrorists under separatist slogans are carrying out total persecution and physical destruction of the Ukrainian nation with the support of the occupying Moscow. Today, on Donbas, ethnic cleansing began, looting began, and people were killed for the slogan "Glory to Ukraine!"people are killed for speaking Ukrainian, people are killed for walking in embroidery. Today in Donbas, a mass kidnapping of Ukrainians is a national kidnapping of representatives of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In particular, my confidants have been kidnapped as a candidate for President of Ukraine. Stolen representatives of district election committees, heads of our territorial organizations. This wickedness must be stopped immediately. The state must carry out its duty to citizens — to prevent this terrorism, to prevent it, and to guarantee the security of the people. That is why we demand, not the suspension, but the immediate conclusion of this anti-terrorist action. That is why we believe that the state must now be swift and decisive. And here in Parliament we have to make the most current laws that are expected of us today in Ukrainian society. I don't understand why it's not in the order of order today to remove the MP's immunity, which has already been announced last time, as has been stated by the Attorney-General's Office, which is already the case. If there is no regulatory committee decision, it is urgent that the regulatory committee meet and adopt an appropriate decision. I don't understand why when I stressed on the Conciliation Council yesterday that there should be a bill on illustration (4570), why isn't it in order of day? I want to remind everyone, unless there's a law on illustration, if there's no cleansing of power, we have absolutely no chance of stopping terrorism in Ukraine now, separatism, we have absolutely no chance of getting a normal job in the Ukrainian State, stopping the possibility of further existence of all those corruption schemes and so on. So the law on illustration has to be explicitly approved as soon as possible in our country, now here, directly in Parliament. We have already lost our chance in the early 1990s when such laws were passed by Poles, Czechs, Hungarians, such laws were passed by representatives of the Baltic States. They are now the heads above Ukraine in socio-economic development, in political development. Ukraine feeds the rear. In my time, I passed this bill in April 2005, after the victory of the Orange Revolution. Sadly, though, he was also rejected. Now this is the Maidan requirement, now this is a requirement of the Dignity Revolution. The law on illustration should be explicitly approved in Parliament. In no case should we forget the parliamentary, judicial, and presidential integrity of adopting the new text of the Constitution of Ukraine. This is a requirement of the people today. Well, and clearly today we realize that all that's happening in the East of Ukraine is the result of sabotage, sabotage of representatives of the local authorities, of the Ukrainian national deputies who are sitting here: both the Party of Regions and Communists. So Freedom has passed an appropriate bill, 4528, which discusses urgent measures to increase the professional level of law enforcement officials and provides for a special procedure for re-testing law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, internal affairs, the Security Service, the State border authorities. And everyone has to be responsible for supporting separatism and will be responsible for both the local authorities and the Ukrainian national deputies. It is therefore urgent to consider all submissions about the removal of the touch. And one more thing. The Freedoms faction has already asked the Ministry of Justice to ban those criminal political parties: Party of regions and communists. They shouldn't exist in our country because they support evil, they break the law -- and they have to be repealed. 3530 is the Law on the Prohibition of Communist Ideology. Bring it to Parliament now! Vote! And then she'll be together. A Ukrainian victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u23	From the Communist Party, the word is given to Simonck, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u24	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respectable comrades! In early May, Ukraine was rocked. The horror of the crimes committed only says that in Ukraine the blood of the Ukrainian people is trying to establish the Fascist regime. These are the events that today show that at the core of the Odessa Inquisition in the House of Trade Unions, those who had a different viewpoint burned down. They were burned alive. They were hunted with metal rods when they tried to get out of the room or jump out of the windows. They were destroyed because they, as Ukrainian citizens, had a different point of view. I believe that we must be very serious today about the fact that heads of administration, like Odarchenko, I have the impression that this idiot-psychopath claims at the event dedicated to Victory Day that Hitler did right when he came to our land to liberate our people of Ukraine. From who? From the Communists! This will be done and said only by the man who is either a fool or an end to the frost, who says that our grandfathers and ancestors, shed blood, have liberated our earth from this filth. I would like to emphasize once again that it is the same heads of administration who have invited the Lviv and Ternopol militia on Victory Day in the same Herson area to serve as heads of police today. They invited, not to protect veterans, but to implement the policy of intimidation that exists in the country. By warning them about provocations, this regime, these provocations, plans and executes itself. And the performers are the armed commanders, who are today paid by the oligarhat and sent to kill people and kill people, and more so as the Inquisitors burned dozens of people in Odessa on the skeletons of the Inquisition! Once again, I would like to emphasize that the events of 9 May in Mariupola are a confirmation of what the national Fascist regime is establishing. Dear Ukrainian citizens, which one of you does not know what happened in Mariupola? I worked there. I've got a lot of people I know who confirm that. In Mariupola, the militia gardener was killed and dispersed only for refusing to carry out a criminal team for the peaceful Day of the Victory of Citizens at a rally in Mariupola. Headmasters arrived on the same tanks and shot all the troops with grenade launchers. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u25	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone for the People's Deputy Simone. Please turn off the microphone. You lie and misinformation people! [[B in m in s a l in]] Terrorist criminals attacked the Home Office in Mariupola! Get in your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] You have no conscience, no honor! Get in your seat! Liar! Sit in your seat! Sit down! You're lying insolently! You're lying insolently! Sit down, I said, I'll take your word for it! I'll take your word for it! [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say again, I'm acting under the Rules. Here comes the cynical misinformation of the population of Ukraine. I'm asking you to take your seat. In Mariupola, terrorist criminals attacked the Home Office, killed militiamen, and they were protected by the troops of Ukraine, saved the militia. Sit down! I'll take your word for it! [[B in m in s a l in]] Liars don't belong in Parliament, sit down! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down! You'll lie somewhere else. The cynicism of the Communist faction -- it's shocking. Simonenko repeats the lies and propaganda that Russian media are spreading, including to the West. It's a cynical lie! [[B in m in s a l in]] I say again, take your seats! Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to ask the Ministry of Justice: very much information and material about the participation of Communist Party representatives in the organization of terrorist and separatist activities. And I would ask the Ministry of Justice to consider this issue and, if there is evidence, to bring to justice the materials concerning the ban on the Communist Party in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, we continue to work. Please give it to Yuri Odarchenk. Now the hit will be on. For Yuri Odarchenko's lineup, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, we have now heard such a cynical and brazen lie as the cynical retranslation of the Hebrew propaganda of Russian from Simonek's mouth! Peter Mikolaiovich, to the extent that you can be a vile liar, to drive people away and to lie suddenly from the rostrum of the Supreme Council today about what has not happened! It's a conscious provocation! It's an insolent invasion of society! Now we have to do everything we can to reduce the degree, in order to be clear and honest about what's going on in the areas in us, not specifically provocatively lying about everything, forgetting how you Dutch here voted along with a party of authorities, forming everything that's been going on in Ukraine. Peter Mikolaiovich, I'm bringing you to trial for insolent lies, slander, vile propaganda!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u27	The word from the strike faction is given to the national deputy Heratchenko. Please. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Our faction will be given the word of our leader Vitaly Klitschko. But I want to inform you that yesterday, Maria Vasilovna Matios and I were in Kharkiv at the Ukrainian Armed Forces Hospital, hospital, and we had the opportunity to visit 30 of our boys there who are now undergoing treatment. These are the Alphas, these are the Nazgwarts, and these are representatives of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Let's go together and see. What are we talking about, what peaceful separatists?Oh, my God! Dear friends, look, this is our boy's leg ripped off by a minomet. The separatists are armed with mortars. This is the leg of our Alpha representative, who was hit by a sniper, and only saved by a vest. We also need to talk today about having armored vests in all our armed forces. And it seems to me that today we, the Parliament, have to unite in order to stop the massacre, not to oppress this horror. It's up to us. That's why we're talking to you from women in Parliament. Please, let's not dance on bones, today many Ukrainian families are suffering from grief, let's sit down, we've honored their memory today, can we do so afterwards?Oh, my God! Dear friends, we're addressing you: Sit down, we've honored the memory of the dead today, let's do everything we can to stop the massacre in Ukraine, and so that our boys who protect Ukraine don't kill terrorists who have been smuggled abroad. And from our faction is Vitaly Klitschko. Please give him your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u29	Please come to the parliamentary rostrum of Vitalia Klitschka. Oleg, please! Vitalia Klitschka I announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! Today, every speech, every decision made today in the hall, or speech from the rostrum should be a step towards stabilizing the situation in the country, not the other way around. We have to work for the unity and stability of the country and give in to all attempts to bring Ukraine into chaos. And this applies personally to every deputy present in the Supreme Council. Today, each of us, I want to emphasize once again, each of us has a great deal of responsibility to prove, not abstractly, but to prove to history. And responsibility will come a lot faster than anyone thinks. In particular, I would like to address those whose word still uses respect and authority on Donbassa: do not try to use the present situation for your own minor purposes. Now back to back to reflect external aggression. So if there's a desire to make wives, to influence local leaders, everything should contribute to the success of an anti-terror operation. Armed citizens alike need to be made clear: they need to be given up arms. The state’s position needs to be clarified. We have to build a single country, and we're building life in a single country. Dear colleagues, the next presidential election will be a major step towards stabilizing the situation in the country. We must provide our citizens with the opportunity to vote, despite all attempts to break the election today. I therefore propose Bill 4835, which deals with the organization of voting in today's conditions, guaranteeing the security of such voting, to consider this bill today. The shortest term is also to consider a package of laws relating to the introduction of a visa-free regime with the European Union. I want to make a big warning. We must all learn from the experience of the Yanukovich regime: no authority is more obliged to receive dictatorial powers. Therefore, when working on drafts, every amendment should be carefully considered to make it a legitimate responsibility. a democratic name, not an opportunity for abuse. And then the decisions will be supported, and hopefully by a constitutional majority. It is also time for us to take other steps to move the country forward. It's about facilitating small and medium-sized businesses, which can now quickly create jobs and work to restore the economy. That was discussed at the Conciliation Council yesterday. These bills: simplifying administrative procedures, responsibilities of officials for pressure on business, increasing the fight against raiding -- all of these bills have long been submitted to Parliament. It's time to put them up to daytime and approve. And the last. For days, the bill of the Constitution of Ukraine should begin to be discussed. I am convinced that only after careful discussion by experts, representatives of local communities, and citizens’ associations can change the Constitution thereafter. Because we all need a Constitution that answers the question of society, not anyone there, political views and political ideas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will allow two other non-faction deputies to speak briefly. And for the record, I'm asking you to give the People's Deputy Levchenk one minute. You can do that from a place like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u32	Since then, Alexander Valentinović, as you entered this rostrum, the word "right" in our country has lost all meaning. You systematically violate the Rules and the Rules are the law. You held a closed meeting after the massacre in south-east Ukraine, after Odessa, the third time you tried to drive journalists out of the hall. By the way, you were all like pianists, working after each other. Today you're depriving the MPs of their words. You drive the faction out of the hall, you interrupt, you let yourself hear the lines after the speeches. You're just like us! Not anymore. You're a self-proclaimed speaker! You don't even have coalition lists! Show them to us! You must unite society, not oppose one part of society. Get out of this rostrum! You don't represent anyone here, you don't unite anyone, you make a split.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u33	Please take two minutes from the non-fractional: Oleg Lazko and Sergey Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I'll tell you what happened in Mariupoli on May 9th. Armed Russian divers shot, infiltrated the militia and shot police officers, shot civilians. And those protected by Simonenko, I'll tell you, they were with grenades, with machine guns, with mortars, they burned down the militia. The action taken by the city council of Mariupol was led by the Communist Party in Mariupol, a member of the city council of Mariupol. Who was in charge of this action! And he goes out and tells us that civilians have been shot. You led these people to murder! You shot them! Your divers you support! In the Luhansk region of Hokhlov, a Communist Party deputy, blocked military forces, organized anti - separatist rallying. In the Donetsk region, Hmelov, Slavinsk was building barricades, shooting at our soldiers. It's all Communist MPs. So I wonder why the Communist Party is still not banned as a criminal organization, as enemy guides, as collaborators! And I propose, Alexander Valentine's Day, that I offer to remove Simonek again from the hall so that he doesn't smell like him here, this rotten, peddling, FSB agent! When you come out here when you tell us how we kill people. You kill them, you split the country! Have you heard a single word here condemning an illegal referendum from the communists? No, we didn't. Because at Russia's task, they're tearing our country apart. They still say they're national deputies. You whores are for sale! You prostitutes are political.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u35	The word is given to the People’s Deputy Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I don't think we fully understand what terrible events we can stand before. And this conversation that's happening today in the hall, in my opinion, is completely out of line with the situation today in the country. Well, in the end, let's take one step at a time, try to find compromise. Let's remember, in Yugoslavia there was clearly the same scenario, 130,000 people died, most of the peaceful people were. We're tearing the country apart. Let's think about what we can do. What we've been talking about, the peaceful people who were in the east, and who are today, what they're talking about. They talk about additional powers for the region, they want to influence the situation in the country, they want to influence the situation at home. They didn't take a step. They were talking. Apparently, they don't accept government. They said, give the people who represent the East and the South to see. And to increase trust in this government and in power in general, in Kiev. They didn't do anything. We're here to set up a committee on a language issue. We agreed that we would improve the situation with Russian, and that would also improve their attitude toward government. They didn't do anything practical. If. What did we do before that? Ultimatums and anti-terrorist surgery. What is the most terrible thing going on? If a month more than 90 percent of the people living in the East were in one country, Ukraine and wanted to live, the situation is changing dramatically, all sociological research is evidenced. We're losing support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u37	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u38	Who aren't separatists, who are peaceful people! What should we do? Terminovo, I think I should stop the anti-terror operation. We need peace. Second position. Let's set aside one day for a serious political package that we're going to meet with the East of Ukraine. And the third. We need to negotiate. We need negotiations fast. We need to find a common point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! One minute to the national MP, Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The situation that took place in Mariupola, I don't think anyone could care less. Therefore, in order for us to make a sober assessment of the situation today, I have a specific proposal with Alexei Petrovich White and Vladimir Seminović Boyko, as deputies from the city of Mariupol. We have asked you as acting President to establish an independent commission with international expertise to clearly identify what was going on in Mariupola, what anti-terrorist operation was going on, why it had been appointed on 9 May, when we all talked about avoiding clashes; who was in charge of the operation; what forces were involved; why armored weapons were used; why people were not warned that such mass organizations were being carried out; why no one had taken action to bring the peaceful population out of the fire; and, in general, the real situation that was taking place there. And then, so that there are no voting charges and statements here, let's respond to all of Ukraine so that everyone can be held accountable for their actions, and we understand what's really going on. Then we're the only ones who can unite our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u41	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, we have a statement for recess. But before we announce it, we also have announcements that I have to make. First. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Zubik claims his resignation as a member of the "Supreme European Ukraine" Group. National Deputy Firsova Jegor Pavlovich announced the entry into the political party's strike. The next statement, and according to it, the announcement. According to part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules on the withdrawal of the Party of the Regions’ MPs, Januković Victor Viktor Viktorovich reports. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've been handed over by the FARD faction for the expulsion from the faction of National Deputy Savichuk Yuri Petrovich. And I also have Saucuk Yuri Petrovich's statement about how to get out of the faction. Therefore, dear colleagues, I ask you to accept this information. Dear colleagues, I have received a statement from two factions: The parties of the region and the Communist Party of Ukraine are about to announce a break for half an hour. I'd like to consult you, dear colleagues. Let's, let's have the statements of the deputies after their mandate, i.e. the composition, excuse me, of the MP's mandate. We can vote on these proposals and then take a break. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Let's do this. Please take your seats and make your decisions. The statement came from a national deputy named Jaremi, who asked to suspend his term of office on the basis of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, in connection with his appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support this proposal. Please vote. [[11:01:46]] For 253 Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. Also, an application for a permanent suspension of powers in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This statement was written by Braiko Sergey Borisovich. He informs us that he is in charge of making his own parliamentary credentials. Please support his initiative. Please vote. [[11:02:33]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, national MP. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 12, 64 – Fatherland, Impact – 28, 21 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, 30 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, the National MP reports that he does not want to be a deputy. I don't see a problem with support. I ask you to re-vote this proposal. Please, Your Honor, once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal to suspend the mandate of the national MP, Brik Sergio Borisovich. Please vote. [[11:03:28]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I don't understand, Your Honor, why we don't support the initiative of the national MPs. An application was made for the permanent suspension of the authority of the national deputy Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, who was appointed as head of the Kiev City State Administration. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. Please vote. [[11:04:13]] For 269 Decision taken. An application was made for the appointment of a deputy member of the People’s Department, Deach Boris Davidovich. I propose to vote to support this application. Please vote. [[11:04:52]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 6, Fatherland is 74, 31- Impact, Economic Development is 17, 25-European Ukraine, 31-Freedom is, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 36. The proposal is also being made to support the application made by Topalov Sergey Valeriyovich, who claims that according to the first part of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 1, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies, he claims that he will submit his parliamentary powers. The offer is to support this initiative. Please. Topalov Sergey Valeriyovich. Please vote. [[11:06:06]] For 229 Decision taken. A statement came from (I will give my word), by Tears of Tetjana Jaroslavina, requesting that her parliamentary authority be suspended on time in connection with the appointment of head of the State Treasury Service in Ukraine. Please support the application. [[11:06:48]] For 275 Decision taken. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u42	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity Dear colleagues and distinguished Alexander Valentine's Day, I very much ask that we return to the problem of Dach. I want to remind you that this is the only national MP who has called on Crimea to hold this referendum. And most importantly, this man is still called the Hero of Ukraine. It's a cynicism that can't be invented. Let's go back and get rid of him. This man betrayed Ukraine a long time ago and walked away from it. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u43	Please, Your Honor. The point is that it's not a law, it's not a determination. And in the case of a statement made by the Supreme Council, it is up to the Supreme Council to support this issue. There are no restrictions on the number of votes on this issue in accordance with the Rules. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, this is certainly our principle: to always satisfy our colleague's claim if he has made a decision to appoint a member of parliament. But we need to understand what regions we're talking about, and we're so easily depriving the Autonomous Republic of Crimea that's a territory of Ukraine. We do not know the circumstances under which this statement was made. I would now like to pay special attention to the relevant issues related to the activity of our national deputies in Ukraine, I stress, from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. As long as there are deputies from Crimea, we can talk about how they affect the situation in Crimea. So please, we've voted, we've decided not to go back, let them write their statements again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the Rules do not require the rewriting of applications. He requires that the Supreme Council decide on this matter. An MP can call off a statement at any time, it's true. But twice or three times, writing a statement from the same question does not require the Rules of Procedure from the deputies. Please, Deputy Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. All the Ukrainian people saw the actions of the Ukrainian national deputies from Crimea. None of them condemned the public holding of a referendum called the unification of the Crimea. None of them have publicly condemned the annexation of Crimea and military aggression. Just as no Ukrainian national deputy from Luhansk, other than Valerius Mosheński, condemned the holding of a so - called referendum in Luhansk, not Ephraim, not Struk, not Horochov, not Medjanik. No one! Not Kilincarov of the Communist Party. Everybody shut up! Everyone supports the anti-law, terrorist acts that are now taking place in Luhansk. Do you then have the right to be called Ukrainian National Deputies when you have not hit your finger to preserve territorial integrity, unity of the country to stop terrorism?Oh, my God! And in many cases, you help! And so take away those mandates that break Ukraine and start with the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u47	Please, National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u48	Yes, there are deputies in Crimea. In Sevastopol, there was the only deputy MP, Zelencuk, who had voted against the referendum, and was acting under Ukrainian legislation, he was a Ukrainian patriot. And there are other deputies, both the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City Council of Sevastopol, who called for a referendum, which is a criminal article. Here, it is not just a matter of delegating, it is a matter of opening criminal conduct, because it called for a referendum to be held in violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. That's why I asked, for example, for the depriving of the Act of Hero of Ukraine the MP's request. And now we must vote that the person who betrayed Ukraine be deputized: I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u49	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP. And we're going to determine, your honorary colleagues, by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we would like to remind the Ukrainian people that it was Yanukovic who wrote a letter to Putin so that the occupying forces could be introduced into Ukraine. Similarly, the Party of Regions was involved not only in the referendum in Crimea but also in giving all its organizers the opportunity to hold this fine referendum not only in Crimea but also in Lugansk and Donetsk. And that's why it's very embarrassing that today this party continues to be the one that's tearing the country apart. And it's not true that there's no one in this session room, the deputies representing the Crimea who were involved. Not all MPs were involved. In our faction is Alexander Motchkov, who resisted it. There are even MPs in this room who used to be representatives of the Party of Regions, women, things that go into the session hall, unlike Deich, who voted in favour of both the Occupational Territories Act and everything else. These are the deputies representing the Ukrainian Crimea, and they must remain in Parliament! And whoever wants to go to the State of Russia, let them go, and we have to give them all the rights to go to the State of Russia now, if anyone chooses them there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'll put it to the vote again. You're obstructing your work. Please, once again, I am putting to the vote a statement by the People's Deputies, which is that they will be appointed by the People's Deputies, i.e. with regard to the early termination of their terms of office. Please, Your Honor, please support me to determine how to vote. Please be supportive. [[11:13:05]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! At the request of two MP factions: The parties of the region and the Communist Party -- a 30-minute recess -- is being announced. Please continue the work of the Supreme Council in 11 hours 45 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, please sit down. And I'm asking the secretarial staff to make an announcement so that all the national MPs can come into the hall and the Supreme Council can continue their work. I also appeal to the leaders of the MPs and factions to find my colleagues and to provide them with work in the hall. Please announce. After the break, I give the faction that took the initiative to take a break, a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! A party of the regions of Ukraine today and together with the Communist faction have called for attention to what is now happening at Donbassa. Of course, dialogue is needed to stabilize the situation, and there is no other way, people must be heard and their protection and civil rights requirements must be met. At the same time, we are well aware that many are already trying to speculate on the situation that has arisen objectively in Donbassa, and we must understand that it has been provoked, including by actions from the centre. Today, in order to calm people down, we must do the same thing we did here in Kiev in due course, namely: on 20 February, we made a decision that allowed the situation in Kiev to stabilize, namely, the ceasefire. Today, we call for the same, while certainly maintaining the opportunity to fight both marauders and those who want to use the situation today to rob and rape people. Such actions must be intercepted, but those who have left their civilian position must be calm that they will not be shot by soldiers, that they will not be subjected to armoured equipment. In addition, we now demand that an investigative commission be set up today to investigate the deaths of people in Odessa, Mariupol and other cities where they died, I stress that civilians who had no weapons in their hands who had no threat to the lives of others. And the inaction of power on the ground has unfortunately led to the mass destruction of people. And today it must be investigated, and those responsible must be punished. Of course, we cannot give up, and there is no other way, we must vote on the Amnesty Act for all protestors who voluntarily renounce their protests and give them the opportunity to return home. We are surprised that this paragraph of the Geneva Convention remains overlooked. Geneva Agreements. Dear colleagues from the coalition! Respectable power! You have to understand today that you're responsible for what's going on at Donbass. You have to hear and see people, no matter where they live, in what language they speak. We understand that tomorrow. That you're putting high hopes on tomorrow's round table, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u54	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u55	The results of tomorrow's round table are only possible if we are represented, indeed, by people who make real decisions and who really represent the people who are protesting today. There's no other way. Dialogue to begin with amnesty and cease all hostilities except the fight against marauders. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u56	Three minutes’ time limits are given for break initiators. Three minutes out. Thank you. Dear colleagues! We are now moving with you to consider the issues. I ask you not to interfere with Mr. Simonek's work in Parliament. Dear colleagues, you and I are moving to work on draft laws, and I will remind you that the first block is related to issues that we have already considered and that we need to make decisions about. I would ask, especially members of the coalition, leaders of factions from the coalition, to ensure that people show up in the hall. And I ask you to stop walking around the hall, because right now we're going to be quick enough to make decisions on the issues that have been discussed. In order to remind the MPs of what the bill was about, which was discussed more than a week ago, and from which we agreed to make a decision separately, in a separate plenary session, I will give one minute to the representative of the profiling committee that represents this law, so that in a minute the identity committee can remind the deputies of what it is about, and the deputies can consciously make decisions. So here we go. Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the regulation of urban activities and State architectural and building control. There are two alternative laws.: Governmental and parliamentary. Please, Zubko Hennaday Grigorovich, on this issue. From place to place, respectable colleagues, to make it faster. Come on, you've reached the rostrum. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u57	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We must now take a decision on Bills 4629, 4629/1. It's a bill submitted by the government, and a bill submitted by Mr. Suškević to begin decentralisation of power, to begin the transfer of powers from the central authorities to the places. And this applies to the bodies of the State Architectural Commission. I'm putting this bill under consideration with the committee's proposal to support the government bill. But after we discussed these two bills in the past week, it was further suggested that those proposals that Mr. Suškević had made to protect the rights of people with disabilities in general, to grant unimpeded access to such issues, to support Mr. Suškević's draft in the first reading. And to prepare for the second reading, to clean up those, in general, conflictful things that we say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u58	I understand the committee's proposal to adopt Project 4629-1 on the first reading. Do I get it right? Dear colleagues, can we support the committee? Come on, Valery Mikhailovich, one minute literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, Alexander Valentinovich, thank you for your attention to the problems of the disabled. Friends, I wrote this bill -- a government text to each other, adding only the rights of people with disabilities to the accessibility of the architectural environment -- nothing more. So this is the same government bill, just added: Barrier and rights of people with disabilities in the environment. Please support this bill of all factions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u60	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote in the first reading, i.e. to adopt Project 4629-1 as a basis. Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, to wake up to those who are still asleep. We've been discussing this issue, this is a matter that we have to decide on. I could not give the committee a word, but just put it to the vote. So, honourable colleagues, please, this issue has been discussed by participants, representatives of all factions. Can I put 4629-1 to the vote on the basis? I can. Please support the bill (registration number 4629-1) is a project to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on urban regulation and state architecture control. Please support me as a base. Please vote. [[12:24:14]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions" – 6.76 – "Fatherhood" – 26 – "SHOCK" – 22 – "Economic development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 13, "Freedom" – 28, The Company – 0.28 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, we have to make it! Now I'm putting an alternative law, government law, to a vote. This is the first reading, that is, acceptance as a basis. 4629, please vote. Please support me as a base. [[12:24:58]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The factions. 4 – “Regions”, 73 – “Fatherhood”, 32 – “BACKAR”, 24 – “Economic development”, 20 – “Sovereign European Ukraine”, 29 – “Freedom”, “Competitive 0”, “non-fractional” 27. Dear colleagues, we've been through these questions. I'm asking the committee to make an offer. In fact, these two laws are rejected. Suškević's proposal, I saw the proposal: to go back to the issue of the Suskević project, which includes people with disabilities. Dear colleagues, I'll do it once. Please don't call me again. I propose that the Supreme Council return to this question. Please return to the Supreme Council on this matter. Please vote. [[12:25:59]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now lay the groundwork for Bill 4629-1, which we will go back to. Please be supportive. [[12:26:23]] For 207 My colleagues, I don't understand, honestly. I'm filming this question. We're not going back to him. All of it. Thanks for the job. Dear colleagues! Now, pay attention! I'm talking to the whole room. We are considering one of the laws that are included in the package, which will provide a simplified visa procedure for Ukrainian citizens in relation to the European Union. This is Bill 4580: draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons requiring Additional or Temporary Protection. I ask the head of Valery Vasilovich Packan to inform. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The committee will support the above-mentioned bill and ask for it to be voted on as a basis and as a whole. There's all the standards that were contradictory, all cleaned up. At present, the committee supports the bill. Please support him with the voices in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, pay attention! I'm once again calling your attention to the fact that this is one of the laws that needs to be passed in order to simplify the visa procedure for Ukrainian citizens. The law is very short, guaranteeing the rights of refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection. Is the content clear? Understood. The proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. Please, fellow Members, pay attention, a very important question. Please determine how to vote. Please support Law 4580 as a whole. May I have your vote, everyone? [[12:28:23]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. We are one step closer to the simplified and, in the future, the visa-free regime for our citizens in relation to the civilized countries of the world. Please, by the factions. 45 – Regions, Fatherland – 75, 37 – Click, Hit, Economic Development – 25, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 30, Company – 0, non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, the next question is Project 4584. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities to improve the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature issued by the central executive authorities. One minute, the head of the Kugel Alexander Volodymyrn committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we've been looking at this bill with you, which aims at optimizing the work of the allowing authorities, the central executive authorities in the area of the issuance of permits through the state administrator at the detention centre. I'm noting that the adoption of the project will make it possible to significantly reduce the time and money spent by entrepreneurs and to reduce the level of corruption. Entrepreneurs are urged to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, deregulation is an important issue for the revitalization of economic activity in Ukraine. I'm asking for a basis as a whole, isn't it, Alexander Volodymyrna? I got the offer. Please vote, Your Honor, on the basis of a total of 4584. Please vote. [[12:30:12]] For 242 Decision taken. "For" - 242 people's deputies. Dear colleagues, the following question is: a project with registration number 4582. This is a draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the certification of the integrity of copies, photocopies of documents and their statements and the validity of the signature on documents. Please turn on the microphone to inform Agafone Nataly Volodymyrny, secretary of the Legal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u65	This law is very important because it foresees that there is a legal basis for the issuance by the central executive authorities of documents of a permissive nature based on the principle of organizational unity, that is, through free centres created at the district and district level. And the introduction of such a procedure will make it possible to substantially optimize and simplify the availability of documents of a permissive nature, which appear to be at the central level in terms of reducing the time and money spent by entrepreneurs, as well as reducing the level of corruption by officials of executive authorities. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u66	The committee's proposal is based on the whole or only the first reading? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u67	On the basis and in general. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's proposal. Project 4582, please. Please determine by vote. [[12:31:54]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm on the phone with Brussels right now. It deals with Ukrainian issues, including visa facilitation. And it is a huge request that we, after all, now adopt the laws that are involved. No objection, dear colleagues? I ask you very much, and this is why let's now consider the second reading: Project 4551 is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine relating to the activities of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights in the field of personal data protection. Please, Valery Vasilovich Puckan, on the rostrum. It's the second reading, in the committee's editorial, I understand, the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u68	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! Bill 4551, second reading. We had a few common standards. I want you to know that the committee has settled all the issues. All the proposals that came from the national deputies were taken into account. There were five suggestions, and two are included. The most controversial norm was the offer made by the Kugel People’s Deputy. It's on the table today. And the committee supports Mrs. Kugel's legislative initiative and asks that it be drafted that "relationships between legal persons of public and private law, as well as natural persons who are in the territory of Ukraine, are solely in cases defined by individual laws, such as the Personal Data Protection Act." Please vote in favour of this bill as a basis and as a whole. And support the bill with your votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u69	The only right: in the second reading and in general, do I understand? Dear colleagues, there is a proposal in the committee's report to support this project. Once again, his registration number 4551: Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws relating to the activities of the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Human Rights in the field of personal data protection. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please support me in my second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:34:32]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you. Another important second step was taken to simplify the visa regime. Valerius Vasilovich, let's continue to work in the same quality. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, legislative act 4581 is about amending some legislation on prevention and combating discrimination. You know what. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u71	Don't be distracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u72	You know that a lot of amendments have been made to this law, a lot of rules that were contradictory. I want to make you aware that the norms that caused the biggest storm of outrage in the national MPs, namely the definition of "sexual minorities," have been removed from the legislative act. And at this point, we've made some amendments to the amendment made by the People's Deputies of Miroshnichenko. He also urged the removal of the rule on the declaration of the intention of discrimination against which the national MP stressed. But the committee disagrees solely with one norm. These are changes to article 60 of the Civil Procedure Code, which we cannot remove at the suggestion of the people's deputies, because then the adoption of this law will lose all meaning and meaning. We ask you, with the amendments of Igor Miroshnick, to vote on this bill as a whole. Yes, the amendment of the People's Deputy Number 10, Peacekeeper, is taken into account. Amendment No. 11 is rejected. Amendment number 12 is counted. And amendment number 20 is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u73	Understand, fellow believers? Taking into account the committee's proposal. The only one I can see is one of the authors of the amendment, Miroshnichenko, the National MP. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u74	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, I want to reassure all the Ukrainians, because in this bill all the standards that we tried to impose have been removed. I think that Ukraine is an extremely tolerant state, and no one discriminated against anyone, in principle, perfect legislation was. We are voting for this because, in principle, there has been a significant compromise. But the only request is for those who negotiate a visa-free regime. Let's not talk about liberalisation right now, but still take real steps -- and get the Ukrainians out of line behind visas. Let us no longer liberalize the visa regime, but actually introduce a visa-free regime in Europe -- as Ukraine did many years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I'm simply stating that once a decision is made on the second stage of the simplified system, it means that by the end of this year there will be a completely visa-free regime, this is automatically happening in the third stage, this is a visa-free regime. Thank you, Valery Vasilovich. Let us also vote in favour of this law. Dear colleagues, considering the amendments announced by the chairman of the adoption committee, or the rejection, I ask the committee to support draft Law 4581: amending certain legislation on prevention and non-discrimination. Please, in the second reading and in general, please vote. [[12:38:29]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, don't discredit Parliament, I beg of you! Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Ephraim. By factions, please give me the decryption. The factions. 2 – Regions, 80 – Fatherland, 35 – Impact, Economic Development – 24, 22 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional - 26. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u76	Alexander Valentinović, we have told you many times: do not break the Rules. We are now voting on the laws without seeing the table. And when the MPs are hearing about someone being taken away, that's what they're hearing, and what's written in these tables, no one's seen. If someone takes the responsibility of voting for what they don't know, let them vote. But without seeing these tables, we can't vote. Give us the tables, and we'll make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u77	Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u78	I think it's perfectly right for colleagues to say that we have to work out the tables in time, but I just want to explain. The chart was prepared for yesterday, as far as we know. This morning the committee met to consider a few last questions, which were called the head of the committee. And the position that caused a lot of objections in the room is that the Civil Procedure Code introduced a norm that actually meant refusing the presumption of innocence, this position was removed. And the definition of the so-called declaration of the intention of discrimination was also withdrawn because it was thought that this might entail certain risks. These two problematic positions have been removed today, this is settled by four amendments, these amendments are named. I can only share with you the indignation and concern of MPs who have not received this table, but I just want to ask for understanding. The committee considered today that the position was completely off by all interested parties. I think we have a bill ready for a fully polished, friendly vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you very much, given the situation, I think you also want to support my proposal to return to that question, and so on. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal to return this question. It is very important for us to adopt laws today that will ensure, in the near future, a visa-free regime for our citizens. Please vote back on this matter, please, your honors. [[12:41:17]] For 233 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of Law 4581 in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:41:35]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! And the last step, which is very important not only for the visa-free regime but also for the fight against corruption, is bill 4556: draft Act amending certain legislative acts in the field of State anti-corruption policy in connection with the implementation of the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. Please, head of the Cumak Viktor Vasilovich Committee for the Fight against Crime, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! During the morning, from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., a committee was practically working with a group of national deputies from all factions that were working on the draft law, the final text, until the second reading of the draft Law 4556: on amending certain legislative acts in the field of State anti-corruption policy to implement the Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. I want to say that this law has incorporated all the normative acts, more faithfully, all the norms that take account of Ukraine's implementation of the UN Convention against Corruption, the Criminal Convention against Corruption, and the GRECO recommendations that have been made to Ukraine in the first and second stages of monitoring anti-corruption policies. 149 amendments were made, and many were included. I would like to say that the issues, such as the issues raised with regard to this law: with regard to special confiscation, have remained or are now referred only to crimes, service crimes under Chapter XVI of the Criminal Code. There's a 129th amendment: about keeping the bank's secret. Twenty-four amendments are included: for non-contributory purposes. 68 amendment: regarding the definition of promises and suggestions. I want to read to you that everyone knows the text that relates to the promise and the proposal contained in these laws. Under article 354, 368, 368-3 (with the exception of three), 370 should be understood as statements made by an employee of an enterprise, an institution or an organization, a person providing public services, or a service person with the intention of providing an improper benefit, and, under the promise of making such an intention with a notice of time, place, manner of granting such benefit. That is, the clear criteria for supply and the promises of an improper convenience were expressed by the national MPs. These are the editorial amendments concerning the executive authorities involved in the investigation and investigation of crimes related to or related to them. Offences related to anticorruption policy In principle, the entire working group agreed to the final drafting of the law, and I ask that you adopt this law in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Tables are now being made. Yes. The representatives were from your group, and they all are, now. We just finished agreeing at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! It's a very important question. This is the last step that we have to take with you not only in fighting corruption, I hope that there are still many issues that we have not defined, and we will define them, but this is also the last of the packages of laws that we need to adopt in order for Europe to understand that it is being visited by people who are struggling to really fight corruption in their own country. So, honourable colleagues, there's a proposal in the committee's drafting now to gain courage, with the technical and legal drafting of this law, to gain courage and to vote on the position that relates to fighting corruption and which gives us a straight path, includes green light for simplification, and in the prospect of lifting the visa regime between Ukraine and the European Union. Dear colleagues, please support the second reading: Victor Vasilovich, sit down, you won't be able to vote – and in general. I see the Minister of Justice is still proving final questions. Colleagues, the cool law is out! Please. Can we vote? Please, Your Honor, support in the second reading and in general. Please vote. For visa-free mode. Against corruption. Please, all of you. [[12:46:47]] For 289 Decision taken. Congratulations, dear fellows. Thank you. The factions, please. 43 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 82, Impact – 35, Economic Development – 26, 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 32, the company – 0 and non-fractional – 43. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has taken a very important step in the fight against corruption -- and has opened the way to the visa-free regime of our citizens. Thank you very much, dear colleagues! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are back to making decisions on the issues before us. Now we have to look at the bill (registration number 4583) on metrology and metrology. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov. One minute. I don't see Matvienkov. Dear colleagues, from the authors of the law. Please, I give the floor to the Secretary of the Committee. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u82	Let's get Matvienkov back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! The Industrial Policy Committee, at its meeting on 8 April, considered a bill on metrology. The proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers have been considered. The comments and suggestions made by the Scientific and Experimental Department, the Institute, are taken into account. We propose that this bill be adopted as a basis for first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u84	On the basis and in general. So I understand the committee's proposal? In the first? Only in the first. Well, we'll listen to the committee's suggestions. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes that this law be adopted only in the first reading. Please, dear fellows! Please, colleagues, let us vote. 4583 - based. Please. First reading. Please be supportive. [[12:49:24]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions. "Regions" – 3, "Paternity" – 74, "PART" – 24, 23 – "Economic development", 24 – "Sovereign Ukraine", "Freedom" – 30.0 – Company, non-fractional – 30. From the committee, what will be the proposal regarding the fate of this law? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be sent for re-reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, let's make a proposal to the committee to support -- and send this law to read again. Please support this proposal. I beg of you, Your Honor, vote. Because everyone walks around the hall and does not perform their constitutional function and the duty to vote. Please, Your Honor, please support the committee's proposal, and send this law back to your first reading. Please vote. [[12:50:24]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question will report -- one minute to remind us of the content of this law -- is the Secretary of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy, Vitaly Alexander Unmerciful. This is draft registration number 4585: draft Standardization Act. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill was also considered by the Committee of Industrial and Investment Policy, and there is an offer to accept it in the first reading. Dear colleagues, I address everyone. We are adopting a simplified visa regime, not for our citizens to work in Europe, but for our goods produced in Ukraine to be sold to the European Union. This bill was first submitted by the government of Azar. For the second time, it was submitted by the government of Yatsenuk. I'm asking you not to politicize this question. All Ukrainian producers are interested in the adoption of laws on standardization and metrology in Ukraine. The committee is closed, and some comments and suggestions are taken into account by the government. I guess so. Management. and changed according to what has been said to the Administration of Science and Expertise of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please accept the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes that this draft law be adopted as a basis for making it important for us to actually have products that are competitive in both European and other markets. Please, Your Honor, support Project 4585: Standardization. Please vote. 12:5232 For 221 Dear colleagues, well, 221 votes. The decision is not taken. Let's go to the factions, please. The region's party is against standardization, only 2 deputies have supported, Fatherhood – 77, 29 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, 23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 31 – Freedom, 33 – non-fractional. Please turn on Victor Pinzenick's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u89	Dear National Deputies! The European Union has unilaterally made it possible to access Ukrainian goods to European markets. This is very important for the Ukrainian economy. But to make this possible, we need our standardization system to meet the standards that are in place in the countries of the European Union. So we have to move in a direction that opens the way for Ukrainian goods to move to new markets. We are obliged to support the national economy by accessing new markets. So I propose to go back to this bill, to vote for it as a whole. It's a simple document.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u90	Thanks for the offer. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u91	Dear Alexander Valentinović, we would like to inform you that we are recording a vote in the hall. And that all the votes you're making with the violation, they're in violation today because there's no MPs in the room, and you're giving buttons for others. They will, these materials, be referred to the court because you do not respond to this decision. So I ask you once again: Don't be ashamed. If there are votes – vote if there are no votes – do not violate the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u92	I ask all national deputies to vote exclusively for themselves. I'm also informing the Chamber: I have received a statement from the People's Deputy Shipko, who asks that his vote be taken into account under Bill 4586 in the fight against corruption. Please take this statement into account by the Secretariat. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I would urge you to vote in favour of this bill, because it gives you a lot of access to investment. Ukraine needs investment. We need economic development in the state. It's not political opposition, it's salary increases, it's pension increases. This makes it possible to do it in the end. So I'm addressing all my colleagues, support this very important document that makes it possible for the economic development of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the proposal of many of the deputies who speak, and I see, and the MP Rudzkowski of the people to return to this question. It's important, really, for investment, for investors, let's go back to that question. Please support this proposal. Please vote. [[12:55:45]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this is a serious problem. We are effectively blocking the possibility of working for our businesses under international European standards. I hope that we may be in a mood, and we will return to that question. Please, Your Honor, the next is the draft Act amending certain legislation on investor rights (4586). You see, what an important block. Please, who – Matvienkov will be. Yeah? The National Deputy from the Committee informs the Supreme Council of this law. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u95	Dear Chairman, national deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy at its meeting on April 8, 2014, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislation on the Protection of Investors’ Rights (Registration No. 4586), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to improve legislative acts that regulate the termination of powers and the dismissal of officials, legal persons, and the strengthening of their material responsibility. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion of April 4, believes that the first reading of this bill can be considered in the first reading. The committee considered the bill and suggested that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee recalled the importance of the content of this law, and I think that all conscious national MPs should definitely support our investors. Please, Your Honor, draft Law (4586) amending some Ukrainian legislation on investor rights. It's a very important question. Dear colleagues, please all national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please support the committee's proposal and vote on this law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:58:12]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you to the distinguished national deputies who supported this law. The following issue is equally important: 2193a: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for land formation and state registration on the basis of the Land Administration documentation developed before 2013). Please let the apostle Michael Volodymyrovich of the profile committee inform the Supreme Council of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, a bill has been drafted to protect the interests of mostly socially vulnerable persons who have initiated ownership or use of land prior to 2013. However, taking into account the legislative changes that took place in 2012, they failed to complete the procedure. Much of the documentation with its land structure was developed by 2013 for the purchase and cost of citizens. For some reason, however, the decision to transfer land to the authorities had not been made. Today, these citizens are forced to exercise their right to own land to purchase projects by land administration, and this is a very expensive pleasure. In order to ensure the rights of these citizens, it is appropriate to allow them to transfer land on the basis of technical documentation already developed. The Professional Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. I'm asking you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u98	Thanks for the offer. On the basis of and on the whole, honourable colleagues, Bill 2193a proposes the adoption of a committee of profile. And I'm asking you to support the offer. Please vote. Just on the ground? Just on the ground. Well, when MPs insist on just the basis, I can't deny it. Then on the first reading, I understand, the proposal to uphold this law. Please, Your Honor, 2193a as a base vote. Please support, it's a social law. [[13:00:36]] For 230 Decision taken. The law was adopted as a basis. Do we have to vote on this? No suggestions. So we're going to do the general procedure. Dear colleagues, the next issue is registration number 3316 – this is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the continued use of agricultural land. Please, from the profiled Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The bill 3316 proposes to introduce a minimum lease period for agricultural land, to introduce a purely monetary form of land lease, to introduce public data on land users on a cadastre map, to make land leases available in private farms, and to simplify the requirements of the lease agreement. Thus, Project 3316 in the event of adoption will contribute to a stable rental of land in the countryside, prevent soil depletion, make land relations transparent, eliminate non-lethal settlement by rent-a-farmers, simplify the lease process. At its meeting, the Professional Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the relevant bill as a basis for the first reading. I ask the honourable colleagues to support this bill. In the event of his passing, we are ready to consider all the shortcomings and adjustments in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u100	I see. How about we support such a fine bill, yes or no, dear colleagues? Please, we're not discussing this issue, let's vote for it. The committee's proposal is based on the first reading. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the Hall to identify and support the committee's proposal to adopt Law 3316 as a basis. Please vote. So in the first reading, please vote. [[13:02:41]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand when you show your hands like this. What does that mean? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the People's Deputies of the Philippines. And then to the National MP, Donya, for the replication. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u101	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, thank you. The thing is, I don't have a card. I click on the button, the signal appears, and then it disappears. That's three times. That's why. I'm asking you to put it the other way around: vote again or check the "Council" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u102	Clearly, respectable colleagues. When you press a button, name it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u103	That's what I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u104	Please, National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u105	My credit card's working, I'm conscious of it. Let me tell you what was the norm today in the debate of the parliamentary group that caused us to worry. The minimum lease period is 12 years. We think it's too much, and we suggest we discuss another term so that we don't turn it into a new fortification that it can rent. 12 years is too many, considering that a lot of those who have pies are people of retirement age. For 12 years, well, they have only one choice to take the land. It's too much, so let's go back to work, talk about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u106	Please, the MP Rudzkowski will explain this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I want to ask you another question. Of course, we need to go back and talk about this question, whether it's 12 years, or 5 or 7. But now I want to draw the attention of all the national MPs. Colleagues, in the East of Ukraine, people are dying now. We're now looking at metrology, standardization, investment. What investments? Now no one will invest in Ukraine until we've settled the situation. Why don't we now form a group of authorized deputies to meet with local authorities and develop a mechanism for resolving the issue? The second question. Why we refused to hold a legal referendum along with the presidential election, where we would consider all the questions and give an answer so that no one would speculate on the people's opinion. I mean, two and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that the anti-terror operation is continuing, and it won't allow terrorism to spread across Ukraine. That's the first one. Second, there will be a round table tomorrow, where all these issues will be discussed, including the referendum, another package of issues that I hope will be raised and supported by the Supreme Council. Please, the Peace People's Deputy, on this very issue that Parliament has discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u109	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I think, and the faction thinks that this is the question of land rental, standardization, the question of the livelihood of our cities and villages is very relevant and urgent and necessary. Because we don't have to lock ourselves up just because we have to suppress the terrorists, we will. But no investor will come to Ukraine unless he understands the clear rules of the game. So now we're trying to write it all down. And it's understandable why Freedom voted and supported this bill. And we think we should go back. But a huge comment to the author of the bill: we don't agree with the term "rend," but that doesn't mean we have to "get in a position" and move away from those questions. We believe that the drafters of the bill should clearly prove from the rostrum whether they have heard our remarks or not, whether they are ready to make changes in the second reading that concern society, concern the community in the countryside, concern the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u110	Please, one minute to the national MP Kulinich, the author of the law, and we'll make a decision, your honorary colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! We're ready and we've heard your proposals for a minimum lease on agricultural land, we're ready on the committee to discuss this and to prepare a harmonized, normal bill for second reading. Thank you. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I remind you, we're not discussing this issue, but we need to make up our minds right now, so the proposals were a lot of deputies -- go back to that question to support it in the first, I emphasize, in the first reading, and to the second reading, take into account the comments that were being made in the hall. Therefore, I ask that, honourable colleagues, vote on the return to this issue. Please vote. [[13:07:46]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not joke. There'll be an offer -- I'll come back to that question one more time. Next question, colleagues: draft Law 4608 - Draft Act amending article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase criminal liability for illegal placement in Ukraine of State symbols of other States). Please, Andrew Anatolyovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u113	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement law enforcement was discussed by the National Deputy of Ukraine Lášk in a draft law amending article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase criminal responsibility for illegal placement in Ukraine of State symbols of other States). The bill proposes to complete the text of article 110, part one, of the Criminal Code, after the words “the Constitution of Ukraine” add the words “that illegal placement for this purpose in its territory of State symbols of other states”, dot. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of a first reading plenary session to adopt the bill as a basis. In principle, Alexander Volodymyrovich, if there is no objection, may be, in general, because he is very short and relevant and will contribute to the improvement of the legal mechanism for ensuring Ukraine's territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues! People's deputies, who stand back in Parliament's rostrum, are asked to take their seats. Dear colleagues! Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, Alexander Fedorovich, please! Nestor Ivanovich, please sit in your seats so that you can work and vote. Please don’t distract your fellow Members from their constitutional duties! The committee's proposal was draft Law 4608 to take as a whole. A short but important project. Please support as a whole. Vote. [[13:10:04]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 80, Impact - 27, Economic Development - 24, Sovereign European Ukraine - 21, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 26. The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. Please, National Deputy Kugel, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! The bill introduces changes that remove unjustified and harmful obstacles in the process of restructuring and liquidation of legal persons, which, inter alia, impede the reorganization of central executive bodies in the phase of cessation. If you remember, we have considered with you, and many of you have cited examples of government enterprises that have not been closed down for decades, that have not been eliminated, and that state - owned liquidators in these enterprises are making money and the state is losing. Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, the current question, you know how many myths the problem is when people can't shut down the business. They are forced to pay bribes to close down a business that has been bankrupt or that has not worked. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to support the project. Alexander Volodymyrna, on the basis and in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u117	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u118	On the basis and in general. Please, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize once again: Project 2121-1: amending the Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs (reorganization of State Institutions and simplification of the cessation of legal persons). Please support as a whole. Please vote. [[13:12:04]] For 228 The decision is taken at the border. The factions, please. Region Party – 2, 80 – Fatherland, 24 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional 35. Dear colleagues, next question. Alexander Volodymyrna will also continue to inform Parliament. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the procedure for the State registration of the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons who are entrepreneurs in accordance with the application principle. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Each of you has been approached by voters with the problem that if a person tried to open up as a business person, but it didn't happen, it's a European norm, 50 percent can't be entrepreneurs, it can't shut down 3-4 years. a natural person who's an entrepreneur, so he can't go back to work and can't join the employment fund. This bill foresees a very rapid elimination of the individual. But I'm stressing. If he owed his agent (with whom he worked) or the state, all debts remain. I very much ask you, an important bill, to support it today in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and work on this issue -- to be determined by voting for support on the basis and in general. Yes, a committee proposal? Alexander Volodymyrna, on the basis and in general? On the basis of and overall support for Project 2409-1 on amending certain legislative acts to simplify the procedure for the State registration of the cessation of entrepreneurial activities of natural persons who are entrepreneurs on the application principle. Please support as a whole. [[13:14:31]] For 224 Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus and work. I understand the cards didn't work again. Dear colleagues, for them to work, you have to push the buttons. Then it'll work. The suggestion is to go back to this question, from many national MPs. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal, Alexander Volodymyrna, vote as well. Please support the proposal to return to this issue. Please. [[13:15:15]] For 243 Decision taken. We can if we want. But now let's go back. Now we need to be based on it as a whole. Please vote. Support the proposal: based and overall project 2409-1. Please. [[13:15:36]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The next two alternative laws are going. Alexander Volodymyrn Kugel also informs. These are alternative issues related to the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Oversight (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity (on the Responsibility of Officials of State Authorities (Control). Please, Alexandra Volodymyr. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u121	Dear National Deputies! You and I have two bills. One is the author of Agaphonov, sold to Oksana, and the other is Fursin. We received a letter from the committee from Mr. Fursin, and we thank him very much for taking his bill off the table, because it will be fully included in the Sales and Agafone Bill. It will be included as the author. What does this law foretell? Everyone listen carefully! Mikhail Chechetov, listen to this bill! It's when any examiner harmed you, the enterprise, and you proved it in court, he's answering his money. First he counts the body in which he works and then he counts off his salary. To help us understand that every decision must be made not only by an entrepreneur but also by a civil servant. There will be a test of who is responsible for the work of the native.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u122	I understood the committee's proposal. The only thing I am, as the law changes, is the first reading, I understand? In the first reading, that is, on the basis. Dear colleagues, draft law 3216 or 3216-1, Alexander Volodymyrna? 3216-1, yes, the committee is offering to take it as a basis. Don't be too hasty to turn on the "Race" system. Thus, the proposal for a vote is based on the bill’s registration number 3216-1. Please decide how to vote. Please vote. [[13:18:00]] For 248 Decision taken. The law was adopted in the first reading. 4527 is the registration number of the next draft law that we will now consider. This question concerns the amendment of the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve transfer pricing. Please report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Your opinion, honourable voters, is a bill that is very important to business. Unfortunately, it is being considered in the plenary room a little late, because one of the provisions of the bill is the postponement of the deadline for reporting controlled operations for the period from 1 September 2013 to 31 December 2013. Yet, there are a number of progressive novels that are very useful for business. In particular, the bill proposes to reduce the order of issues concerning the size of fines for failing to report on controlled transactions. Article 39 is complemented by a very useful norm in which, in the case of fine payments, taxpayers are not exempt from reporting obligations. This will discipline tax payers in part to perform their duties and to report controlled transactions. In addition, article 39 of the bill is proposed to supplement it with a provision that, in the case of self - adjusted tax payers, would be added.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u124	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u125	The self-adjustment by taxpayers of taxes when reporting controlled transactions, they are exempt from fines. This is an extremely important position in disciplining tax payers. Also for a transitional period in view of the fact that the transfer pricing institution was introduced into the tax system since 2013, a one - dollar fine is imposed for the period from 31 September to 31 December.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u126	Thank you. Alexander Kugel asks the committee to base and vote in general. Alexandra Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u127	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to hear me. The bill that you've adopted by that authority, we should, like the stables, clean up today so business doesn't get hurt. You're making these changes yourself. Mikhail Chechtev, do you copy? You can't wave your hands around here. We're cleaning up after you. In this bill, the only thing we ask is not "September 1st," but "October 1st." Indeed, the reduction in fines should be supported if the enterprise changes itself. This bill needs to be supported in general, only with the amendment "from October 1st". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u128	Please, just one minute from Minfin. Please turn on the microphone in the government box, press the button.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u129	Does it work? The Ministry of Finance supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading and in general. Please be supportive. That's an important question. Because in the current tax legislation, many issues that are not finally agreed upon today need to be met by tax payers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u130	So the government supports it as a whole? Is that what I'm saying? Supports. Honorable colleagues, proposal: to vote on the draft Law 4527 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:22:07]] For 241 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, next question. Registration No. 4510 is a draft decree on a program of assistance for those who have experienced political repression in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Please, the head of the Packaan Valeriy Vasilovich committee, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u131	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! To date, the committee's decision on this legislative act is to support it. We have no objection, and for the moment we will support it on the basis and as a whole. Please support all the national deputies in the session hall on a basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal has been understood. 4510 resolve to support as a whole. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. Please support the committee's proposal, please vote. [[13:23:29]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Please, Your Honor, we can, however, this is a serious matter. It refers to refugees from Crimea. Can't we support them? The offer to come back again. Let's go back again. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and support your offer. Dear colleagues, we are voting for a return to this question. [[13:24:17]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 2450: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (to ensure the employment of the rural population and to maintain the social sphere of the village). It's an opposable bill. Please give me 1 minute to inform Cibenko Petr Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On April 17, the Committee on Social Policy and Work discussed the bill. The bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine: "For Employment of Population", "For Social Development Priorities of the Village and Agricultural Complex in the People's Farm" and "For Land Rental". A key norm of the bill is the introduction of a quota principle for rural employment. Thus, according to the committee, these changes violate the principle of equality of citizens as enshrined in article 24 of the Ukrainian Constitution, since the proposed guaranteed employment is violated only for rural people. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill should be rejected as a result of its consideration. But considering the extraordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u134	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u135	But given the extreme urgency of the problem of rural employment, it is relevant, and the committee has decided to bring the bill back to work. The idea of the bill needs to be preserved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the committee for the author's return to work. Is there no objection in Parliament? Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u137	Dear fellows, I address you. Everyone went to the polls and everyone promised we'd support the village. Today, large corporations have rented 100,000, 300,000 acres [300,000 ha] of land, people are not employed, people in villages have no job opportunities because cattle have been cut, jobs are not created. This bill will motivate those who rent land, latifundists, job creation, animal farming, and local processing. We must uphold this law and protect the people living in the village. There are 30 percent of people who have been abandoned, no one needs them. What kind of work? We have to vote today -- and show that we care about the village that feeds and provides for Ukraine's commercial balance of payments. We're exporting more grains as we produce metallurgical products. Let's think about people, not the business of big corporations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'm putting this project on the ground in the first reading, and Parliament will determine. Dear colleagues, Furman, please give the people's deputy a word. And let the Supreme Council determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u139	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Law, of course, is vital, and we should accept it in the first reading. But there are a number of legal errors. And that's the notion of people living in rural areas. We don't have that idea, that is, we don't have it at all. Therefore, it is not known who will be the subject of the law. They also link the work force to the realization of the work force. Farming and farming. But there's the Personal Village Farming Act, which is not subject to the creation of legal persons. But we vote yes in the first reading. Please make sure that these adjustments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, this is not a matter for discussion. Thank you. We just gave the opportunity to inform Parliament to remind us what this law is about. Because this issue has already been discussed. I, under the insistence of the MPs, place the draft Law 2450 as the basis for the first reading. Please determine how to vote. [[13.29:19]] For 155 "For" is 155 people's deputies. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions – 2, 69 – Fatherland, Hit 3, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 17, 32 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 30. Colleagues, well, we don't speak for reasons. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, 1 minute. We will not be able to accept important questions, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u141	Alexander Valentinovich, I understand we're in a hurry and we've got a lot of work to do. But, well, it's just, well, it's a crime -- it's a question to take and put down today. Well, we understand very well that the kolgos, where even the meager salary, but in fact, there was almost a whole village. Now it's clear that with new technologies, it's just units, tens, well, hundreds of people can work in agriculture. Where should we go in the village of others? It's just a social sphere, a built-in sphere, where workshops will open. Everything in the village is completely wiped out today. Don't vote for it. How can you vote for it?Oh, my God! I can't imagine not voting for something that could somehow save the village!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u142	National Deputy Suhi, please. We're still working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, this false pathology is totally useless. That's what this is about. The lease agreement can be terminated if the quota is not executed. That's the law. Why, did our committee send for work? So change the Rent Act! How can a land lease be terminated if the quota is not executed? And then, think about it with your head, it's really not a college. How can you budget in the village of an employment farmer? Who? Where? He's picking up. A. Let's do it humanly, as the communists suggest: we go back, we form colguses, radospas, FAPs, schools will work. Everything will be beautiful and wonderful and beautiful. Either it's a market relationship, or don't make anyone laugh. Why is there a village here that feeds all of Ukraine?Oh, my God! You might think we didn't know that before!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to work. But, guys, come on, this isn't a discussion. Parliament has determined that if there were not enough 2-3 votes, I would be able to repeat it. Anatoly Kinach, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! The MP Group "Economic Development" refers to all MP factions, groups, non-fractional support for Bill 3316. It focuses primarily on further land deregulation, creating conditions for efficient land use in Ukraine. What's important about terms is, from the point of view of preserving the fertility of land, humus, because what happens when a tenant in 3-5 years at the expense of a sunflower or raps burns out the land in such a way that it can't be worked on for years is unacceptable things. So Bill 3316 is very important both for the involvement of investment and for the further effective development of the basic sectors of the economy of Ukraine and for the improvement of the quality of life of our citizens, primarily peasants. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u146	The question is really, really important. People’s deputies approached me and asked 3316 to return to that question. Both 4583 and 4585 are questions related to metrology and standardization. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to come back to these three questions: 4583, 4585. I can't hear you, I'm sorry. 4583, 4585 and 3316, request to return to these matters. Please vote, Your Honor, please. Please, dear fellows. [[13:33:36]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, 220 votes. Three very important questions. Please. Please, Adam Martinyuk wants to support you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u147	Thank you. Martinyuk, Communist faction. Although, unfortunately, to thank you for nothing, since you are totally ignoring the faction, it was as your presiding officer that no one gave you the right to do so. That's the first one. The other one. Dear peasant fighters, under a very good name: the constant development of the agrarian complex -- you want to attach a minimum to the 12-year-old peasant who gave you his pie. Because it says here that for 12 years, if you've given away pie and if it's not counted with you, you can't take that pie away. Now, the big landowners are running here, and the fourth time they're putting a bill to vote, they're putting you on the fort for at least 12 years. What do you vote about? Why do you support those who rob rather than protect the village? Have a conscience and be shocked!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u148	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support Bill 3316 separately, return to the vote. What are you talking about, what fortification? There can be no five - year lease. Let's talk about it on the committee, in the session room in the second reading. Maybe it'll be 10 or 8-- we're just pro. What fortitude do you speak of? Well, you can't stand an economic relationship when you're five years old. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I say once again: all three laws: standardization, metrology, and the use of agricultural land -- this is the committee's proposal -- in the first reading, on the basis. For us to ask them, we must go back to that question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is my last bet. All of you, please vote back on these three issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, 3316: Back to this law. Please, 3316. Dear colleagues! In turn, let me put it this way: 3316, on the way back, please vote. [[13:36:09]] For 204 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! The next question is: the return to standardization and metrology laws is 4583 and 4585. This is linked to European standards. Please, Your Honor, support the return to these issues. Please vote. [[13:36:40]] For 204 The decision is not taken. And 4510, honourable colleagues, the invitation of the national MPs to come back to this issue. Please support the proposal to return to this issue. Please vote. [[13:37:07]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 76, Impact - 27, Economic Development - 16, Sovereign European Ukraine - 24, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 24. Dear colleagues, we have a lot of questions that are being asked by MPs to include factions, including groups, in the agenda. Can we use the package to consider this question? We can. Colleagues, let's try to save time -- and in 14 hours, let's look at it, include it, and with a clear conscience, let's take a break. Yes or no? Colleagues, let's give it a try, not a drink, but the next time it comes through, and the Communists back it up? Dear colleagues, come on! The rate of inclusion in the agenda of the projects is 4836, 4835, 4822, 4607,4792, 4834, 4845,4837, 4838. Please support, Your Honor, on including these projects, including, paying attention to the agenda. Please vote. [[13:38:31]] For-136 The decision is not supported. And it was close. Yes, dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, then we're looking at each other separately from these projects. Let's put it this way: 4836. Want to take a picture? Dear colleagues, 4836 the author asks for further work and is now not included in the agenda. It's easier for us to do that. 4835: Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine (for ensuring proper organization and electoral process). One minute, Deputy Zhuvania. Let's get out of here. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u151	I thought I'd report by law and now for inclusion. So I ask the factions to support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u152	David Vajajevic, you should have told the deputies that this is a very important law because it will ensure that the presidential elections are held effectively. I'm helping David Vajaevich. So, honourable colleagues, the proposal to include this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:40:00]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 77 – Fatherland, Impact – 24.4 – Economic Development, 27 – ". European Ukraine" is sovereign and 32 is Freedom, 34 is non-fractional, and 0 is Communist. Please, Your Honor, next question. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code (responsibility for the financing of separatism) (No.4822) on inclusion in the agenda. Let's, dear fellows, support the struggle against separatism. Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[13:40:51]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Who Supports Separatists? 0 – Party of Regions, 0 – Communists, 78 – voted "The Fatherland", 29 – "Klicka" and 26 – "Economic development", "North European Ukraine" – 21.31 – "Freedom", non-fractional – 28. Next question, dear colleagues. Draft Act amending the current legislation of Ukraine on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Please, Your Honor. Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute, comment on the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u153	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! This is a bill that provides for the right of citizens to be heard personally if citizens have established a violation of the law. And so we grant the right to establish the facts of the violation of legislation, the facts of bribery, which will be directly provided as documentary confirmation in court. This protects citizens from civil servants' demands, it allows citizens to go directly to court, not to wait for any mediators to decide on the closure of such cases. That is why I insist that this question be put into the agenda. If there are any suggestions, we'll work on it essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, please. David Vajaevich, sit down! I heard your offer. I'll be back. Dear colleagues, the offer is to tackle corruption systematically and support the 4607 project, put it in order of the day. Please. In order of the day. Please be supportive. [[13:43:02]] For-143 Not many deputies are ready to fight corruption. "To" - 143. The factions, please. Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 78, Hit by Klicka – 7, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 3, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. The next question, fellow dignitaries, is a draft decree on some measures to prevent extremism and separatism in Ukraine. Project of the People's MP of Peace. Dear colleagues, please support the inclusion in the agenda of this draft decision. An important decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:43:55]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The following is the question: a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel who perform tasks under the legal regime of the state of war or during an anti-terrorist operation and their families. A very important question, dear colleagues, please support. Please vote to include the project in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[13:44:36]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0.77 – "Fatherland", "Klicka" – 8, "Economic Development – 23", "Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, "Freedom" – 32.0 – Company, 23 – non-factional. Dear colleagues, the following question is registered number 4834: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (as regards guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel who.). Excuse me, the following question 4845: draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (on the recruitment of citizens for term service). Honorable colleagues, an important issue that regulates this important subject. Dear colleagues! Please, the People's Deputy of Mushensky on this matter? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, distinguished President of Parliament! I want to say, when we're trying to approach, without committees, committees and yesterday after the Supervisory Board, not the Supervisory Board, but after the meeting, at night, the Conciliation Council, at night, they're introduced without the knowledge of these laws, they can't be supported in the hall. You can't do that. Let's still be model deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u156	Thank you. We will be exemplary. Dear colleagues, I'll explain the situation. These are the laws that the faction leaders insisted on during the Conciliation Council. We do not accept them as a basis, either in the first or in the second reading, but we simply include them in the agenda so that the committees can consider them. And that's why we're doing it so that the committees can look at them. Dear colleagues, so once again: 4845 draft law. Please enter into the agenda. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Integrating into the agenda. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:46:55]] For 135 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 73, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 5, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Next question, colleagues: the draft Order on the Reduction of the Pressure of Control Authorities on Small and Medium Business in 2014 - 2017. Please, Your Honor, 4837, please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:47:41]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski. By factions, turn it on before it comes out. 32 – “Regions”, 77 – “Fatherhood”, “BRA” – 3.23 – “Economic development”, 16 – “Sovereign European Ukraine”, “Freedom” – 32.0 – Company, non-fractional – 30. I see a hand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u157	Dear National Deputies! Alexander Valentinovich! First of all, I'm asking you to allow the strike faction to comment on why they don't include this issue in the agenda, because this law is very important. The adoption of such laws is the creation of new jobs, it's the support of small and medium-sized businesses that can actually provide jobs and those millions of people who are now standing on the streets both in the Centre of Ukraine and in the East. And I would ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, during the break, I have a request to gather the leaders of factions and coalitions and opposition. Now, by the way, the opposition is voting for the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. There's not enough post-faction votes. We vote. That's the law you need. Let's put this and other laws into the agenda at 16 o'clock so the committees can start working. We're wasting our time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u158	Thank you. Let's give the author a chance to say. And I feel that once again the Supreme Council will be able to support this issue. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, this draft decision of the Supreme Council, by order, I stress, is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take measures to end the period from June 1 to May 31, 2017, documentary and factual checks by the authorities of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what everyone here has been talking about, sitting in the hall, always. So let's give the average and the small business a little bit of a rise, because now we only have 2 percent of what comes into the budget that goes from small and medium-sized businesses. And 8 percent of what they do in manufacturing. Therefore, respectable colleagues, please support. In fact, given that the situation is critical in Ukraine, this decision could be made both in the first and second, and in general, Alexander Valentinovich, immediately, without a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic. Dear colleagues, it's not a discussion, it's an inclusion in the agenda. We've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, I have such a feeling that I am in the theater. And we don't know what's going on. It is suggested that small and medium - size business be cancelled for 3 years. Then I have a question: Why not cancel the big business? And if you don't need this control, if you don't need it, if you don't need it, if you don't need it, you need to get rid of the control organs, and you don't have to do anything, whether it's an election campaign or something like that. Let's stop this circus and the theater, including the deletion of the Peacetime Prize Act. I twisted the law both to the left and to the right, and I couldn't understand why this law was adopted, and he didn't decide anything. Let's read a little bit about what we're voting on. I propose these two laws not to vote for inclusion in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, well, most deputies, I can see it in my hands, but they're still asking me to come back to that question. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think this bill, because it makes life easier for small and medium-sized businesses, will be voted on now. But, Alexander Valentinovich, there is a systemic error that we now allow when we vote for inclusion in the agenda. Look at the bills they don't vote for. The first to be submitted by the government. I've talked about this before. When it comes to social spending, especially at such a difficult time. Well, this is not the time for the pyar of the factions and the other deputies! Such bills should be passed by the government. And second moment. When a person violates the Constitution while in two positions, advise them, these people, not to pass bills, for such bills cannot even be included in the agenda. This is a violation of the Constitution, of the reconciliation of positions, and look who are the subjects of the legislative initiative. My conscience is gone!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that this project was signed by Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, who does not reconcile any position. Please, People's Deputy Mirni. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u165	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Freedom faction laments and laments that the Supreme Council is already holding an open-ended presidential campaign, and there is no more vote in terms of the need for society or the importance of the state. Now they're paying attention to the last name, the faction, who passed the bill, who voted for it. And let's finally look at whether these laws are needed for society, for small business, for medium-sized, for an agro-industrial complex, for the protection of the country, or not necessary! Let's get out of this. And "Freedom" in her vote shows that it's not what matters to her whose name it is, it's what matters to the state! And I ask all factions, including those who join the coalition, to remember that! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we return to the request of many of the deputies who have spoken to us to consider the matter. But for that, we have to vote for it. Please vote on the return to question 4837. Please. [[13:53:40]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 37.75 – Fatherland, Klitschko – 0.24 – Economic Development, 15 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 26. The following question, fellow believers, is the draft of the Law on Disbursement of Tax Debt and the Congregations of Small and Medium Business Subjects. The author is also Kožemyakin. 4838 is the registration number of this project. Please, Your Honor, I'm paying attention to the inclusion in the agenda, not in the first, not in the second, not in the third, but the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please determine how to get into the agenda. Please vote. [[13:54:33]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, it was the request of the deputies to return to the law that regulates the presidential elections and ensures that they are conducted effectively. By factions, please turn on the board. 24 – Party of Regions, 72 – Fatherland, Impact – 1, Economic Development – 21, Sovereign European Ukraine – 11, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, please do it again. David Vazajevich, I'm giving you a second demand, you should have made a good show in 1 minute -- then maybe you would have supported it. Please, one minute from this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! This bill allows elections to be held in cities where there is, of course, tension: in the Lugansk, Donetsk areas. This provides protection, day-to-day protection of the KLA, enables documents to be transported properly by the Ministry of Internal Affairs staff, as well as on occasion and may include the Ukrainian Security Service. This is where all the points are aligned with the Central Electoral Commission, which is consistent with all the departments. It's an absolutely normal law that all factions have supported. Anatoly Kirilovich, your faction didn't vote today, you had an argument. If at this important time you are against the inclusion of this law and the vote in favour of this law, I ask you to argue why your group does not vote. It's a perfectly normal, adequate and effective bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-13-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everyone has understood the importance of this matter. Have a seat, David Vazievich. Let us return to the consideration of this bill and then try to bring it into the agenda. Perhaps the question is, I have no doubt that all the political forces represented in Parliament want us to have fair and transparent elections, and they want their outcome protected. Please, Your Honor, return to Project 4835. Please vote. [[13:57:08]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions. 1 – “Regions”, “Fatherhood” – 70, 26 – “CHAPTER”, “Economic development” – 6, 23 – “Sovereign European Ukraine”, 32 – “Freedom”, The Company – 0, “non-fractional” – 32. Dear colleagues, there's a break in 16 hours. I'd like all the deputies to be in the session room at 4:00, and the heads of the MPs and factions to ensure the appearance of the national MPs.
