ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm asking the Secretary of the Supreme Council to make an announcement so that all our colleagues can come and work right in the session room. We have a very important question to discuss with you right now. Let me remind you that we heard yesterday's government budget report last year. And according to the Budget Code, the Supreme Council should approve the draft Regulation on the Main Directions of Budget Policy for 2015. I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber of Finance Minister Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with article 33 of the Budget Code, the government proposes to consider the main thrusts of budgetary policy for 2015. They're primarily taking into account the government's activity program that you approved here three months ago. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I had the honour to report from this rostrum on the 2013 budget, and then, as I recall, it would be appropriate to draw two important conclusions. The first one. It is critical not to repeat the mistakes of 2013. And the other one. The inaction of previous governments, the absence of reforms in all sectors of Ukrainian life not only paralysed the Ukrainian economy, but also left us a very narrow field for budget management. So it's about mistakes. The first was the formation of budgets in previous years on a consciously higher macroeconomic base. Let me remind you that consensus, the forecast of all macroeconomic experts was that there would be no growth in 2013 and that there would be zero growth, but we put 3.4. And in the same way, the nominal GDP has been overwhelmed by 120 billion. Now, the average of macro-predictions is estimated by experts to be a consensus forecast, primarily by the Ministry of Economic Development and Growth Trade of 1.7 percent. We put him in the budget. So the nominal of gross domestic product, from which we're going to count the budget revenue and expenses with you, is going to be 1 trillion 686 billion dollars. Inflation. We think December's inflation is going to be less than 105-4 percent. Unquestionably, today is not the most grateful time for forecasts in Ukraine. And so in the draft budget resolution, we've pointed to factors that might affect the change in macroeconomic indicators and leave that kind of effect to them. It's about income. Here are two key things I wanted to stress: firstly, the 2015 budget is proposed to build on the existing Tax Code with separate points of change. These dot changes are part of the March 27 law that you have already passed, and they are partly in the Parliamentary Hall. And I would like to ask the national deputies to consider these bills. It's 4647. By the end of September of this year, we will have more to offer. Yes. 4647, I'm sorry, and the tax compromise bill. By the end of this plenary, this session, we're going to propose some other changes to the taxation of the passive incomes of joint investment institutions and the advance payments on dividends. In the near future, this bill will come to Parliament. This will be the tax base on which the 2015 budget will be built. The rest of the work is planned to be completed by the end of 2014 in 2015, so that the 2016 budget is adopted in an updated version of the Tax Code. Today, there are nine working groups working in Minfin on this overwhelming document. And the second aspect. A very important point in terms of income is the restriction on the reallocation of gross domestic product through the budget. We want to get to the figure, and we're going to put this parameter, not more than 30 percent. During the last year, this figure was significantly higher. This led to additional pressure on business, tax evasion, and non-reimbursement on the added value of inter-budgetary relations, the government approved the concept of decentralization. Yet, budget management without political support by constitutional and legislative changes is somewhat limited. Nevertheless, we have put into the draft budget resolution the possibility of transferring a range of programs to places and forging them by regions a broader tax base. As for the expenditure portion of the 2015 State Budget. As we come out, dear national MPs, it's an unpleasant conclusion that, after 2014, it's down to minus 5 percent of GDP. This means that the maximum that we can afford in 2015 is raising social standards, namely the subsistence minimum, the wage of a first-rate worker only at the consumer price index. In doing so, expenditure for the main budget managers will be projected at the level of 2014, including for work and for energy. We're finally going to have to optimize the network of budget institutions and learn how to save energy. As regards social expenditure, government programs, and new legislative initiatives. I want to remind you that in 2014, funding for socially protected articles will take 92 percent of all budget resources. The situation in 2015 will be even more difficult. Then we'll propose. First, do not adopt new costly legislation without confirmation of the relevant income. And secondly, stopping a whole series of laws that can't be funded in 2015 for lack of resources. As for our difficult patients, who can no longer live without a budget grant. According to the Pension Fund, we propose a further and complex reform to balance it. According to NAC, full support differs from gas and tariff prices to direct payments from the budget, but not from the introduction of the WDPK statute as a Christmas turkey. In the coal sector, a substantial reduction in support should be based on a comprehensive reform of the coal sector. With regard to budget deficits, a government budget deficit of 3 percent is proposed. The state can't afford more, so we're setting a debt limit of 55 percent of GDP. This will reduce the income base of the budget by 18 billion compared to the current year. And the last. The macroeconomic scenario you're offered is fundamental, it predicts some growth in economic activity, but it predicts a continuation of government stagnation policy. It does not foresee any major reforms in the field, in any field, that are the main consumers of the state resources that have remained unreformed since Soviet times. It's about education, health care, social support for the population, the LHC, etc. This burden goes to the bottom of both the Ukrainian budget and the Ukrainian economy. But there is also a target scenario that envisions tough and rapid reforms in both the economic and social spheres, and the results can be completely different, to choose us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I see there's a question for the Minister of Finance, please sign up for the factions. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister! I'll probably be able to speak and speak on the document you're proposing. And I'd like to ask you this question. This is the Committee on Science and Education that has approached you, has asked the Committee on Budget Profiles to complete the chapter with a new paragraph in such an editorial. "The granting of the right to scientific organizations, higher, vocational, technical and extra-school institutions to manage their own incomes related to core activities, directly through bank accounts in state banks." Do you understand what's going on? Education and science can’t be managed by the cost of these institutions. Well, they can't do international projects, they can't do their work. Can't it be that way for years when an investment can't use its money, how does it want to do it? Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u5	In large numbers, we don't mind considering this question, but let's define if these institutions are not budgetary institutions, please use the funds where they consider it necessary. Until then, in order to make money, they're using the audiences of state, state, public, and so on in this mix, we can't help ourselves. Therefore, we believe that for the time being, this order must remain exactly as it is, and we will deny such a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u6	National Deputy Twin, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u7	I'm asking you to pass the word to Momoto's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u8	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u9	Dear Alexander Vitaliovich! I have this question for you, what government debt is in the 2015 draft budget, how does it relate to 2013 and 2014? And does it pose a threat to the economic security of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u10	As of 2014, we will have a debate in Parliament, and we will propose changes to the State Budget by 2014. We're going to keep total debt at not more than 57 percent of GDP this year. As for the following year, I called this number, this lighthouse is 55 percent of the gross domestic product. It is critical for us not to go beyond 60 percent, which is a security figure for the State budget and which will not allow our creditors or other financial institutions to accuse us of approaching the state of financial crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u11	Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Jurek Mikhalchinin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u13	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Mikhalchiin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u14	Yuri Mikhailchisin, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union Dear Minister, on page 7 of the decree, you are told that the relationship between the State Budget and the local budgets should be based on the principle of ensuring the sustainable economic development of the regions. Please tell us, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, our system of administrative and territorial arrangements consists of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, temporarily occupied, districts, districts, cities, urban areas, villages and villages. We have no idea of the region in domestic law. For what purpose do you include this flimsy and totally harmful to the present political situation of the country’s term in the text of the decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u15	Thank you. I don't mind having this over the entire text instead of the word "regions" rewrite it in enough bulk. We don't see anything wrong with the word "regions." That's all the regions. So I think that's the term used to shorten the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u16	Next question, please, the People's Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u17	Please pass the word to Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u18	Please turn on the microphone of People’s Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u19	Dear reporter! Your report has made it clear that for the following year all social benefits will be frozen: the frozen minimum wage, the frozen minimum pension, no allowances for teachers, doctors, budget workers, and much more. So it's completely on the 2013 level. If you say that in 2013 it was bad, although I remind you that in 2013 the minimum wage was four times paid, pensions were reviewed. I have a question: 80 percent of schools, hospitals are built, but they're not built. Are the funds to complete the construction of these important social objects? Second question: Arsenij Yatsenuk said that those who will receive a 40-50-per-cent increase in housing services will receive a large social grant of 4.5 million people. Please name the amount of grants, and once again, will schools be built up this year?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u20	If you ask about this year, the entire resource that you and I have left is one billion dollars for the socio-economic development of the regions and 2 billion dollars for the centralized capital investment. If Parliament decides to distribute them to schools and hospitals, this is a matter for Parliament. As far as compensation is concerned, 3.3 billion dollars this year are actually intended to compensate those people who, because of a sufficiently sharp rise in gas prices and heat tariffs, have not been raised by your government or by your predecessors, and that's why we came to this situation, then it would be smoother, so to speak, we will provide protection from 16.8 million consumers 4.5 won't be able to feel tariff rises this year. What happens next, we will decide with you in the Parliamentary Hall when we adopt the 2015 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u21	Please, National Deputy Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u22	Since my question was answered by Oleg Zarubinsky, and I support this position that my own income from core activities needs to be accounted for in government banks, I pass on the word "Alexandri Kugel."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u23	Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u24	Alexander Vitaliyovich, I can honestly say that I was expecting other documents. As we considered on the committee, we noted that it was written as an old authority. You have very nice government proposals and the programs you've set up, the reforms they should have. reflection in these basic directions. For example, it says "enlargement", "enlargement" is the same thing as before. "Ensure budget balance." And we say, put the maximum in the area of authorization together with the money. We're going to say, "Stop this shameful medical reform." And it says, "enlargement of new funding mechanisms for this reform." Nothing is said about the real estate tax that we say should be left in the local budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u26	The most unpleasant thing was to read: "activating the work of over-arming the military and special technology of the Armed Forces and alienating land." We say now, we hear every day that we have nothing in the army. What are we going to sell? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u27	Very many questions, Alexandra Volodymyrna. I just want to say that the document of the month is in Parliament, and the committee has worked very well on it. We agreed with all the comments made by the committee. By the way, including the property tax, which is fixed by territory. As for the sale of surplus property. I'm convinced that this is a record that the military has agreed with, and that they have surplus property, there are surplus towns that they're willing to implement to concentrate resources on the most important directions. I agree with you that the document is not very revolutionary. I would also like him to be much more determined. I hope that when we come to you with a draft budget and a budget assumption, there will be much more concrete formulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u28	People's MP Spireen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u29	Please answer such a serious question. As of 01.01.2014, 1 million oncóboles in Ukraine are accounted for. This is a disaster for Ukraine. Question: How much of the need for treatment of cancer patients is met? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u30	Unfortunately, I can't answer that question right now because I don't have those numbers. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u31	Please, the national MP of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u32	A matter of concern to Ukrainian miners. This year, budget support was reduced, and mine-builders were out of budget support. The question is, what's next year's volume, and what's to be expected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u33	That's how I'll answer your question. They already said that he was the chief budget manager. The Ministry of Energy and Fuel will be given government assignments in the same amount that it received this year. As they were distributed to the more visible Ministry of Profiles. If it offers to reduce the maintenance of the mines and to set aside funds for the miners, I think we will, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, we've run out of time to ask questions. According to the Rules and so on, we took the time twice. We now have, let me remind you, a report from the head of the budget committee. Thank you, Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please leave it in the hall until we have a final look at this. Please, Eugene Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u35	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs. The Budget Committee, based on article 152 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, has worked out a draft basic budget policy for 2015 prepared by the Government, in accordance with the requirements of Article 33 of the Budget Code. In total, more than 130 proposals from the National Deputies and the Supreme Council Committees arrived by the end of May have been considered by the Committee at the Ministry of Finance. A few suggestions received yesterday are, for objective reasons, unable to be processed by the committee. These proposals include those that are realistic and economically sound, which will help to maintain a balanced budget and stabilize economic development, which is justified by the current state of government finances. Some proposals are not considered to meet the requirements of article 152 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, are not in line with the rules of the Budget Code, or are not subject to budgetary regulation. In addition, individual proposals do not contain adequate financial and economic calculations and require additional sources of implementation to ensure budgetary balance. Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Budget Code, such proposals can be considered directly in the preparation of the 2015 draft budget and require a system-wide solution in the medium term, depending on the state's actual financial capabilities. As a result of the consideration of the proposals, the Committee on Budget Affairs finalized the draft guidelines for budgetary policy. Among the provisions that have been completed or clarified are such. Social protection measures are being put in place to order the number of recipients of special benefits. The definition of economically and socially sound standards for the use of appropriate services, the strengthening of targeted social benefits and the compensation of their value to service providers. Unacceptability of default on payments to budget staff. Unlike the government project, the budget committee is invited to step up defence tasks by identifying them as an improvement in the state’s defence capacity by optimizing the structure and size of military formations. Increases in the intensity of military training, development and modernization of weapons and military technology. It's about education and science. It is envisaged to review the financial provision mechanism for higher education institutions by moving from their retention to their public-procurement budget. Optimize the network of scientific institutions by assessing the effectiveness of their activities and channeling the budget to scientific research, depending on the practical implementation of the results. In order to improve the quality of budget management, it is considered necessary, first, to optimize the structure of public authorities and to list the main public budget managers. By removing the dispersal and duplication of functions and eliminating the non-property of the state, the Ministry has increased its responsibility for the implementation of State policy in the relevant fields. Secondly, create a legislative basis for national strategic planning and take real steps in this direction. Third. To prevent the provision of State guarantees for the allocation of funds by the principal authorising officers for the execution of super-planned expenditure and to direct the development of the budget to the implementation of priority investment projects, taking into account the results of the evaluation of their economic efficiency. In the context of strengthening the financial base of local budgets, the project is complemented by a provision to extend the base tax on immovable property, to place land payments on local taxes, and to grant local government authorities the right to set benefits for local taxes and congregations. In order to meet the public and local budgets and budgets of the State Social and Pension Insurance Funds, it is necessary to move to effective steps from the childishization of wages. In addition, enhanced economic development should contribute to sales under favourable conditions of government-capitalised shares of banks with such funds directed towards the budget; expansion of energy sources; transparent distribution and increased efficiency in the use of public funds; improved financial investment mechanism for state-owned building support; and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u36	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u37	Thank you. Measures for the integrated modernization of heat and water systems. In summary, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted such a decision. Recommend that the Supreme Council approve the draft guidelines for budgetary policy for 2015 in a committee-worked edition No. 4749d. Please support the committee's decision, considering that this document is a kind of compromise between existing needs and the possibility of providing them financially next year, based on today's realities. Finally, it should be pointed out that the Supreme Council of Budget Priorities is responsible for taking into account Parliament's positions in the preparation of the draft State budget for the following year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the National Deputies. The question to the Minister of Finance is, what is the budget committee going to give instead? Would you like to ask a question? Yes. Please, who wants to ask a question? Adam Ivanovich. Martinyuk's MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u39	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. The point is that there is order that is provided for in the Rules, let us follow it. If no one logs in, there will be no questions. But to say that we've already assigned one rule to use it. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to ask, so I understand that the resolution was almost unanimously adopted on the committee. What was the presence of the committee members?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u40	23 men were of 37.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u41	Please, National MP Blackwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u42	There was a quorum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u43	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I have such a theoretical question for you, as they say, to the chairman of the committee. Do you think we actually need a budget resolution? No, no, that's just the beginning of the question. That's the first one. As a rule, no budget resolution has been implemented by any government throughout the budget resolutions. I think it's kind of a mystical document. Well, at least because the increase in GDP has been planned by 1.7 of Minfin, and at the same time, the economy is going down by 4.6. It's really impossible to count. And I'm surprised to hear you say that we're going to discuss some important issues. It is at the time of the Budget Resolution, regardless of whether there are resources or not, that it is planned what will happen next year. Because the budget should actually be based on a budget resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u44	Thank you, Alexander Vilenovich. With regard to "necessary budget resolution"? I want to tell you that the budget resolution is the road map that puts the Ministry of Finance within a certain framework and does not give them much deviations to the right or to the left when setting up budgets next year. And what you're saying is that I said that important issues will be addressed when the 2015 budget is formed, I think that you are already in the budget committee for five meetings and you know that the resolution is a resolution, but the macro-predictions that will be brought to us by 1 September and will, in principle, be less similar to reality. We will draw up a budget for next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u45	National MP Momot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u46	Dear Eugene Borisovich, I have a question, probably not to you anymore, but to the Minister of Finance, but, well, you're the head. The government assures us that the new budget will be built on new inter-budget relations. But we did not hear any decisive changes in Alexander Vitaliovich’s report. Would you like to hear when, and how will this reform take place in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u47	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. I want to give you the answer that in fact, the budget committee, together with the Ministry of Finance, is making changes to the budget code where the financial capacity of the regions will be large. We literally scheduled a meeting next week, if the week is not a sessional one, between the Budget Committee and the Ministry of Finance, where we will finalize the model by which you will see how much more financial authority will be given to the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u48	National MP, Dubyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u49	Evgeny Borisovich, I am my proposal, the chapter on "Basic tasks of budgetary policy" to supplement the 100 per cent funding situation defined by the Ukrainian Ministry of Health for the purchase of medicines for the sick, because we cannot say that today only 40 per cent of the medicine is financed for the sick, and we need to prescribe 100 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u50	Thank you, Mr. Valérie, and I want to tell you, I already told you on the committee that in the main directions we can't fit 100 percent, 20 percent, 40 percent. In fact, we must ensure that our State moves to 100 per cent of the funding of all programmes. And it can't be that we've prescribed that we're going to fund this program by 100 percent and we're going to fund it by 80 percent. That is why we do not specify 100 per cent or not in this document. You are also a member of the budget committee, and in establishing the budget for 2015, I am sure that we will have enough money from the State and we will work with you to prescribe it by 100 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u51	Thank you, Reverend Eugene Borisovich. Dear colleagues, let's sign up for the factions. People's Deputy Leonov, Freedom faction. He conveys the word to the national deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u52	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexandre Valentinovich, honourable deputies, looking at budgetary policy for 2015 is one of the most important documents of the Ukrainian state. In view of the fact that Ukraine now found itself near a broken trough after the regime of Yanukovic and his family had been looted. We're now forced to borrow. Although the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union believes that it is not a panacea to run with an outstretched hand, the Ukrainian state is rich and rich enough. Sadly, she is looting. And unfortunately, to this day, there are patterns and as in customs, where oil imports by the Ukrainian State are not taxed. And we've been proposing a number of bills that could significantly increase the budget of the Ukrainian State. This is a bill banning private monopolies of 1248 that destroy and destroy small (medium) businesses. This is the Bill of Returns from Offshore Bills that were exported from Ukraine. Seventy - two billion in the past two years have been removed from the territory of the Ukrainian State. And these costs should be returned to the Ukrainian budget, and the social spheres of the Ukrainian State should develop at that cost. Regarding this document, I wanted to say that many and loud words, statements, especially regarding tax policy, we support. The absolute rate is a reduction in tax pressure, a reduction in taxes. This is what we need to do in order to develop a small (medium) business in Ukraine, where it is the basis of 60 to 80 percent of the European states that form and fill their countries' budgets. That is why we support such a position, and at the same time we see that much is being said about it, but no steps have been taken today in this direction. And that's why we need to immediately review tax legislation and create conditions so that we can enable entrepreneurs and businessmen to work in Ukraine and to fill the budget of the Ukrainian State, not to do business. And that's all we have to talk about with a lot of slogans. Similarly, we need to understand that we should now have a fundamental review of both tax legislation and the tax system. Unfortunately, this document does not mention any support for the Ukrainian army. And today's crisis, when Ukraine is practically at war, we need to review the budget to increase funding for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because it will depend on the fate of the Ukrainian state, which will depend on the future of Ukraine, which will depend on the sovereignty and independence of our country. Therefore, we must significantly increase the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union speaks for this funding to reach at least 5 percent of GDP. And that's why we call, first of all, for the destruction of all corruption schemes, especially customs and oil products. Further, a reduction in tax pressure on small (medium) businesses, a reduction in taxes, a reduction in the National Bank of Ukraine’s accounting rate. So we're going to reduce credit and we're going to give, we're going to make available loans that will go into our hands to enable our entrepreneurs to develop small and medium-sized businesses and develop our Ukraine. That's why, unfortunately, we think it's a document.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u54	We believe that this document is imperfect. Our faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will not support it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, please don't raise your hands, we're on record right now. Please, strike faction, the People's Deputy of Kuren.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u56	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u57	Please, Paul Rosenko. From the place or from the rostrum? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u58	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Here the report of the budget committee basically said the right words, maybe they're idealistic about what a budget resolution should be, or putting the Ministry of Finance or government in general within a framework beyond which it can't go. But if right now, really, you look at this draft budget resolution carefully, there's no particular framework here in principle. Especially with regard to the social protection framework. In particular, the Budget Code clearly states that the Budget Resolution should clearly provide for certain minimum social standards and minimum wages. And can you, for example, take a look at the specific size of the minimum wage, such as the points that are written in today’s Budget Resolution? Setting the minimum wage and the minimum wage of a first-rate worker is thesis, taking into account the real economic development and the financial potential of the budget, which will ensure that they increase not less than the consumer price index. Obviously, the maneuvering field is huge, from zero to unknown, for this formula can be applied to any number. Therefore, it is obvious that it is not possible to talk about what needs to be done immediately and to modify it and to modernize the Budget Resolution. But we should probably get to a clear document that will really set a clear framework for the government to form the state budget of Ukraine. And second of all, what I'd like to say is that we're still expecting reform from the government. This government has positioned itself as a reform government and unfortunately, in the budget plan, including in the development of the social sphere, we do not see the parameters of these reforms. Common phrases, general phrase for economic detinction. Well, that's right, it's a plus, it's things that go from one program to another. But we want to see the specifics, we want to see specific bills, specific government standards that will allow businesses to work, that will allow them to fight corruption and invest in Ukraine that will allow them to create legal jobs. So we encourage you to go from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u59	National MP Lewchenko, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u60	Please give the floor to my colleague Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u62	Goncharov, faction of the Ukrainian Comparty. I would like to focus once again on coal mining. Both in the budget resolution and in speakers, many had already agreed that the coal industry needed only to contain miners in order to provide jobs only and, in fact, it did not solve anything. Let's figure out what we're doing and put the points, as we say, above "and." Coal is the basis of the country’s energy security, perhaps no one should be reminded. Today, three quarters of all mining is provided in Donbass. The industry, of course, is extremely complex. Coal production worldwide is unprofitable. At the same time, its support is cheaper than energy imports. Let's talk about grants. The average cost of one produced tonne of energy coal is 1,770 griven, and the discount price at the thermal power plant, I repeat, at the heat power plant is 660 griven. That is, for each extracted and unloaded ton, the State pays the miners an average of 1,087, thereby reducing its cost to the TES by 2.6 times. The question arises, why? Then the citizens of Ukraine, both in the West and in the East and in the Centre, would receive cheap electricity at the same price and not pay 28 or 32 kopecks at the same price, but at the same price, perhaps even more. So who's getting to whom, who's getting to who, who's asking, Donbass mines or still citizens all over Ukraine? And why are the miners going down the mines? For the wages or for our country? Therefore, a balance in favour of the coal industry. She's not taking as much government money as she's saving. Without its import costs, all subsidies to miners would be significantly higher. The resolution should therefore be re-examined. Not 32 billion dollars. And last year, only 12 billion dollars will be spent this year and even less on grants. And I'll give you another example. Here's the latest data. I have coal mines on the Krasdonogle. This is one of the largest coking coal mining associations of the JC brand. Made 20 million bracelets for the development of its territory. This year, it is increasing its investment by 50 more bracelets. It is therefore necessary to re-emphasize the mines, and indeed they must act. And the second question. Since 1 July, our Ministry of Social Policy has abolished the provision of assistance to children under 3 years of age. And it turns out that moms who are two years old are out of one-time care, and between two and three years of age, there's nothing to pay for today. How do I make a donation? Therefore, it is not necessary to wait for the second one as stated in 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u63	National Deputy Butkovsky, please, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u64	Dear Alexander Valentinovich would like to give the floor to a young financier named Dobrenkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u65	Please turn on the famous financier’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u66	Thank you for complimenting the presiding officer. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions, after reviewing the draft Decision on the Basic Directions of Budget Policy 2015, which was proposed by a valid government, states that nothing radical, nothing revolutionary, with which they came to power, is in any way proposed. Moreover, this is a logical continuation of those reforms undertaken by the previous government. This is especially true of accurate changes. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that the changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code have been made. Grand Minister of Finance Alexander Vitaliyovich pointed out that there would be only point changes, including changes in the taxation of passive incomes. I would like to point out that in April of this year, a law was adopted to deal with the consequences of the economic crisis and create favourable conditions for the economic development of the country, where a model of passive income taxation has already been introduced. Again, a gross violation of the rules has been reconsidered, and these ideas need to be changed. This is the order of the current government. I would also like to point out that the current government of Ukraine is complaining that there is a rather low level of internal gross product development. But at this point, it's going to increase by 1.7 percent. In doing so, I note that the revenue part of the government budget will be reduced by 18 billion dollars. What does this mean for ordinary citizens? This means that during the 15th year, there will be no increase in minimum wages, pensions, social benefits, no increase in living minimums for working and working persons. Such results are found in the activities of the current government. And I also want to point out that in order to really detinize the economy, and the rate of detinction of the economy is 40%. In order to effectively reduce tax burdens, a payroll fund requires drastic changes in current tax legislation. A radical and more specific change in budgetary legislation is needed to form and strengthen the financial autonomy of the territorial communities. In no way have we been told what percentage, such as the income tax, is mentioned in the draft decree. It will remain in the incomes of local budgets, which are not included in the determination of inter-budgetary volumes, in the amount of inter-budget transfers. Here, representatives of the coalition say that it is necessary to increase the financing of the army in order to increase the financing of medicine, education, but do not offer any ideas. (If you can continue for 30 minutes?) I would like to propose, in order to secure a budget of 4-5 billion dollars, which the current government is silent about, perhaps to increase the most profitable industries in the manufacturing industry, particularly oil and gas condensate, why no one talks about it when the Ukrainian Law has been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u67	Half a minute, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u68	In terms of, once again, the Ukrainian Act on overcoming the consequences of the financial crisis, which the opposition has been so shouting about, which is what government officials have been saving, I would like to point out that taxation of these highly cost-effective sectors has been avoided. It should be noted that in 2009, at the price level of the average price per Russian brand. The world’s markets accounted for $78.3 billion, with an income of $7.3 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u69	Please, give me another 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u70	At the price of oil, 107 dollars per barrel, tax revenue is the same as when we came to power, we increased revenue 2 times instead of 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u71	I understand the offer, my dear colleagues, I ask my colleagues to go into the rules, because we all work under the same conditions. National Deputy Stoyan, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u72	Please give the floor to Anatolia Kirilovich Kinah, Head of Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u73	Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u74	Dear National Deputies! Clearly, the consideration of the basics of fiscal policy for 2015, in combination with the direction of monetary policy in our country, is being addressed in very complex and responsible conditions of the deep recession of the Ukrainian economy and requires us to define clearly the priorities that both our efforts and resources need to focus on. The Economic Development Union believes that, under such conditions, growth in both external and internal risks should be a major priority of budgetary policy for the following year, measures that should be as targeted as possible at industrial and entrepreneurial activity, improving the capacity of the internal market, loading of the national economy as a whole, and enhancing the quality of export policy as such. It is essential to form targeted state programmes for this purpose, especially in the context of import and localization of production, with a view to creating jobs in Ukraine. The problem of access to credit resources is clearly of fundamental importance. And when we see in the project that the general fund budget deficit will primarily be solved through domestic borrowing, we need to make it clear that the continued cost of lending in Ukraine will still be inaccessible to economic entities -- 20 percent and above. It's unacceptable. There is a need to correct the situation. It's very important, and unfortunately, the draft paper says very little about this, it's the development of small and medium-sized business as the basis for a capable middle class. It's of fundamental importance. And once again, we stress that this should be at the centre of government and Parliament's attention the issues relating to the adaptation of the Ukrainian economy to the conditions of free trade with the European Union within the framework of association membership. This requires targeted programs to adapt technical regulations, standards, which will depend on our product's access to external markets and, of course, the social bloc – the capacity of our citizens. It is vital that we take into account necessarily enhanced methods of creating targeted social support for the population, and it is vital that we deal with serious issues, reducing the burden on the payroll fund. And only a concerted effort to activate the internal market and payability with a clear international cooperation policy can be achieved.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u75	Let me finish. That's it, thank you. Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u76	Thank you. As a conclusion. The project of the main thrusts of fiscal policy for 2015, the integration of Economic Development with proposals, proposes to approve and do everything possible to ensure that the creation of the main financial law of the State Budget for 2015 is implemented in strict compliance with regulatory rules, taking into account the principles that we establish in the framework of budgetary policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u77	Thank you. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, I would very much like the slogans, the promises, the statements, although a little correspondence, to coincide with what is actually being done. What are you talking about? Please tell us, without quality, competitive higher education in Ukraine, what kind of conversation might there be? It's all just talk. Why do I ask that question? I remember that everyone, including those in the government bed now, who is in all the beds and so on, said that the autonomy of higher education institutions is a time task. Without the autonomy of higher education institutions, Ukrainian higher education is zero. Without the autonomy of higher education institutions, Ukraine can be expected to become competitive intellectually, innovatively, and so on. I asked the minister: Can the teaching institute be managed by a special fund? What's a SPF? That's not what's going in the budget direction. It's what a college earns itself, earns, trying to take foreign students, trying to do international projects, trying to do competitive scientific work that gives money, not write-offs to the Ministry of Education. And what I hear is that you use chalk, and you use a board, so let's do all you're going to make, it's going to go where you never get anything from. What is the autonomy of the institutions? It's all talk! I insist, scientists insist, those who are the intellectual real elite of Ukraine, not those who do other things, so that they can do at least this, you know, compensatory function. It's a compensatory function because the vases are underfunded by budget programs. And this part of underfunding schools they're trying to make. Now, what is the motivation in serious research institutions, in schools that have scientific research status, what is the motivation to work well when nothing happens to them, exactly the same is not going to happen to those who are sleeping, who are working in the 21st century with chalk and nothing else they can do? I have many questions for this document. I think we're going to support it, although I think it should be more specific things. For example, there is a reduction in the number of taxes and congregations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is for 2015, this is not for 2050, but maybe we should mention which congregations, which ones, which ones, which are the cuts. This is the next year, show the businessmen, show the business environment what you're going to do, what your strategy is, after all, not just tactical stuff. I think we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u80	Thank you. I think we're going to have to work a lot longer to keep these budget lines from being budgetary declarations. For the declarations are all tired, both forerunners and successors and successors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u81	Please. We don't often have this kind of applause. National MP Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u82	Good afternoon, dear friends. I would like to point out that, in vain, I asked questions about whether we needed a budget resolution. Because once again from year to year, we're going to be doing it in a formal way. And this year is no exception. And here I'm going to refer to the finance minister who said at a meeting of the budget committee that it was such a vegetarian document. The point was that we had not seen the big difference between previous years and today. Unfortunately, although the year is a little unexpected, it is not a little like the previous years, and it is obvious that the Ministry of Finance should not be writing about the unfriendly actions of the neighbouring state, but rather write clearly about how we have a full-fledged war and Ukraine has become a victim of aggression. And then it would be worth asking the government for the necessary amount of money for the defence policy, not the budget committee in its current composition on its own initiative, to write down the need to increase the army and the cost of the army. The same is true of another, meaning parts. We're obviously talking about, and this is, clearly, everyone agrees, at least in the words that local self-government needs to be strengthened and the main thing is, the financial basis of this local self-government. So among those, what's written in this document is, in fact, not saying anything. What's more, when I insisted that we finally reintroduce a fairly popular thesis that Kiev should still be paid 100 percent of its income tax. And his relationship with the government budget was regulated by removals, not by discrimination, just before the 50 percent, plus removal, so unfortunately, there was no support in the Ministry of Finance or in the committee itself. And that's very bad, because it says that no reform of the local self-governance of relations between the state and the local authorities has ever been achieved. It's very sad, but I hope that maybe it's still ahead. Finally, I am surprised by the exact figures that are being written down. The Ministry of Finance writes a figure of 1.7 tenths of an increase, and at the same time the Ministry of Economics is predicting 4.6 downturns. It's strange to see some other exact figures. Still, there is a need for scenario predictions to be given and spoken of, rather than trying to guess what they will be. Because it's going to be completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u83	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u84	At the same time, I would like to say that the committee has treated this quite leniently and voted unanimously to support this budgetary resolution. And when the government puts us into the September budget, we're going to see how much it matches, and we're going to smile a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u85	Please make your last statement, the People's Deputy of the Gods.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, what is going on in society right now? We are working hard after Maidan to get rid of the owl in our lives. We're trying to become, really, a republic. We're trying to become a country for our citizens, for human beings. This document is submitted to the Supreme Council. Alexander Volodymyr, I ask you very much, Mrs. Kugel, I very much ask you to release the minister so that he may listen. It's a totally juicy document. Alexander, it's a shame to file such a juicy document after Maidan. I don't know who prepared it. It seems that you are completely cut off from life. People today are actually waiting for the board of directors, the beacons they can hope for. You gave them the same falcon, sorry for the word. People want decentralization -- not a word about it. People want to know if our soldiers will be wearing and shoes, not a word about it. People want to understand whether they're getting government orders from companies that have lost their markets to the close of the Russian market -- not a word about it. People want to see if they're going to drain the money again, see what state programs you're shutting down, because there's total, total corruption and what you're going to pay attention to. Please tell us again now, as always after the election of the President, everyone says what you want, what you choose, we will now vote again for a document that has no bearing on the real life today. Isn't it a shame to serve it?Oh, my God! Dear colleagues, I think we should ask the Cabinet of Ministers in a few days to work out a new, modern, meeting the requirements of society and real life, a document, and with this document to come to the Council. For this is shame, shame and shame! I'm not voting for this "sauce" and I'm asking all my colleagues to do the same! Let them work and bring us modern, high - quality papers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, we've run out of time for speeches, let's make decisions. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance in closing. Because there was a lot of criticism from this project, please for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I have to agree with the criticism of Inna Alexandrovna, and I myself have talked about it from the rostrum, that the document is written in a classic kind of style, so to speak, and it is not a revolutionary document. I just want to say one thing that finances follow the serious political decisions that should be taken here in Parliament. I explained that it seemed to me that the Ministry of Finance had moved much further in its development of inter-budget relations than the government had moved forward, and the Parliament in terms of the transfer of authority and everything else. But it's hard to write a budget, we're writing a budget under today's regulatory framework. So what's the normative basis, and what's the resolution? I think, however, that we have a lot of work ahead of us to do to correct the basic directions that I have already talked about in the budget presentation. And so any good recommendation and advice we're going to have to take in the preparation of the master document. So thank you all for the suggestions made, and I would like to support the Budget Resolution in this way. And I hope that in that way it will be the last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! I ask the secretariat to make an announcement for all of them to come into the hall, and we need to decide now on the support for the project "On the Main Directions of Budget Policy 2015." Please, Your Honor, take your seats. We'll be in position in a moment. I'll remind you that we have two alternative projects: one government and one budget committee. You have heard a statement by the head of the budget committee, who has proposed to support the draft budget committee, which has a number (4749-d). Is there any objection in Minfin that we should put this particular document to the vote? Put the microphone in the government box.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u90	I said in my statement that we agree with the Committee's observation and would like to support the Committee's budget resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u91	Please, Your Honor, identify yourself on support, acceptance as a basis and the whole of the Draft Decision on the Main Directions of Budget Policy for 2015, developed by the Budget Committee (registration number 4749-d). Please, Your Honor, vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[17:11:16]] For-125 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 56, Party of Regions – 3, Impact – 3, Economic Development – 29, Sovereign European Ukraine – 21, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 13. Dear colleagues, I would then ask the government to work with the Committee on Budgets, to decide on a detailed or finalized document, and to bring it to the Supreme Council, because unfortunately, very few deputies support this project. The only thing I want to remind you, my fellow Members, is that Parliament is interested in adopting the budget resolution, more faithfully, in the main directions of budgetary policy, because I remember several times when Parliament has never adopted a budget resolution, as it was called before, or the main directions of budgetary policy, which allowed the government to determine for itself the budget formation, is no, let's just say, based on the figures that Parliament has approved. So here we are more interested in having such a document approved by the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I would like to consult you, the government officials, the budget committee asked us to consider the financial sector at once, and this is primarily about the stability of the banking system. No objections? We're going to Project 4938. Then we're going to have two more projects to do that, let's take a look. As for Project 4938, I recall that this is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to prejudice the minimization of the negative impact on the stability of the banking system. I'd like you, your honor, to consider this project with a reduced procedure. And in general, the projects that we're going to be looking at in the package are the ones we're going to be looking at with a reduced procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, please support me. [[17:13:41]] For 148 Dear colleagues, please. The national MP, Kyde, came to the floor and did not vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Dear colleagues! In case of non-support to the proposal, only one bill can be considered before the meeting is concluded. Once again, dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal for a brief review of these documents in the first reading. Please. Please vote. [[17:14:20]] For -165 Procedural decision taken. Please, the People’s Deputy Kyle will report on the draft Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear Sir, dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking on 3 June this year, a draft law on amending certain laws of Ukraine on prejudice to the minimization of the negative impact on the stability of the banking system (No4938) was considered. This project is submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, but in principle it is approved by the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill is designed to create conditions for the immediate capitalisation of banks in the event of a significant deterioration in the financial situation, to stop operations that may have a negative impact on the monetary market, to manipulate, to optimize procedures for the withdrawal from the market of insolvent banks. The introduction of the legislative changes will provide a legal basis for effective measures and ensure the stability of the banking system in the face of increased financial risks. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes by commenting on the bill and notes that the bill needs to be finalized. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine express their support for the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking recommends that the draft law be adopted on the basis of a bill and that some changes be made to agreed positions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u93	Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the report is supported with applause. And I'm asking you to sign up, two for, two against, with a reduced procedure. Please. I would ask that while national deputies register, faction leaders and MPs still contact their colleagues to come into the hall and work intensively. Not until the Supreme Council finishes its work. Please, the national MP of Glazunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u94	I'm asking you to give the floor to the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u95	Please, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u96	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Given that there are thousands and hundreds of investors of our banks under the Council, under the Cabinet of Ministers, under the President's Administration. This law must be passed only to support our banking system and stability and stability. I call for support in the first reading, preparing comments for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u98	Furman Alexei, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Money is known to love silence. The banking system should work as well as a unified mechanism. In today’s realities, our nation is also in need of adjustment and a banking system. After all, we have faced new challenges associated with the marked fluctuation of national currency, economic crisis, and other negative effects on the population. At this time the negative has a very painful effect on the welfare of all Ukrainians. Of course, the bill is valid. Nevertheless, some positions need to be reconciled with the National Bank of Ukraine. As in the materials given out, I don't see any conclusion on this project in the National Bank itself. In addition, the bill requires further clarification, according to which the National Bank of Ukraine is obliged to make a decision to refer the bank to the insolvency category if there is a repeated gross or systematic violation by the bank of monetary regulation, cash circulation, prevention and suppression of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means or the financing of terrorism. Which poses a threat to the interests of investors or other creditors in the bank. The bill does not clearly define what a one - time gross or systematic violation of legislation by the bank is. Because in the proposed form, the legislative rule will be interpreted in a mixed manner. To my conviction, the absence of such definitions will lead to unreasonable decisions. But in our first reading, we must definitely support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u99	People's Deputy Fries, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u100	Please pass the word to Belkova Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u101	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, we join the previous speakers. The impact faction is also very concerned about the stability of the banking system. We understand the importance of the preventive and reactive measures that the NBA has in its arsenal. In fact, this bill allows NBA to introduce a curator's institution and order those banks that manipulate their activities, first and foremost, into the currency market. It's the result of these manipulations in recent months that we see sharp fluctuations in the course of the bracelet. In fact, there are also new innovations that I would like to pay attention to, and I think we should look at these ideas for the second reading. I mean the addition of article 58 of the Banks Act, which states that bank managers and other owners. Participation in the event of inactivity or any action leads to market manipulation and damages in the bank correspond to all their property. It's a somewhat contradictory norm, and I think we could make changes to it before we read it again. At the same time, the whole bill is very important to the banking system, and the strike faction will support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u103	National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u104	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhiy, Zaporozhye city, MP's Economic Development Group. Dear colleagues, if we had this kind of content in the third or fourth call, then for us Zaporozhye deputies, for a much more efficient and quicker solution could be given to the problems of the prison bank "Slovyanski". And you remember how tragic the pages developed when people fought for their investments, when the banks went bankrupt, and there was nothing we could do without a legislative basis. Now we get this base, and first of all, this bill will help restore confidence in the banking system. We just have an interesting phrase: "to ensure that loans are available for investment and innovation projects." Honorable colleagues, and the best investor in all countries of the world, are their investors, their domestic investors. If there's a stable banking system, we're going to get both cheap loans and affordable loans, and we're going to be able to implement them. Because today, due to lack of own circulation costs and high bank credit rates, the company is slowing down with technical restocking and modernization. According to various sources in Ukraine today, more than 70 percent of the major assets of all businesses are obsolete. The level of operation of technology, equipment, other assets is 80-90 percent. So for us, this bill is not so much for the banking system, but it's supposed to help stabilize people's trust in banks, to set up a normal credit line for lending investments in the Ukrainian economy, to modernize the Ukrainian economy. And I'm sure we're obliged to support this bill, regardless of what kind of political manipulation or thought there is. I think if I did. We will listen to Natzbank, if there is a representative, it would be possible and not bad to adopt this bill today as a basis and in general, according to the Ukrainian National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the discussion. In short, I'd like to remind you that we did it. And let's be clear about this law. Dear colleagues, please. We are now adopting the law, I remind you, in the first reading, and those proposals that take into account the additions, some clarifications can be worked out when we prepare them to be accepted as a whole. Now, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Colleagues! Dear colleagues! I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Give a beep at the buffet to get everyone to the session room. The law is very important; it has no political color; it is important for the stability of the banking sector. I'm convinced that all of our citizens are interested in not being affected by the crisis, the big crisis in the banking sector, so we have to work with you on prejudice. So, honourable colleagues, (4938 registration number) the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on prejudice (minimization) has a negative impact on the stability of the banking system. Please, Your Honor, support this law in the first reading. Please vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. [[17:25:20]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 58, Regions – 3, Impact – 13, 28 – Economic Development, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the Hall because, unfortunately, we have only the first half of the strength to work in accordance with the laws and the Constitution, and there is no such force in the evenings. A very important law, I reiterate, for the stability of the banking sector. Let's talk to you about how to do this. We can go back to voting next session week, right? Because tomorrow is hardly going to be a vote. Does everyone support this proposal? Everyone supports the voting of this law next week. And there's an offer now, my dear fellows, then to consider a package of laws on a reduced procedure so that we don't make decisions now, and traditionally, on Tuesday we made decisions on the issues under discussion. Is there no objection? There's no objection. This is also the case with Law No. 4983. These are related questions, and I very much ask, my fellow Members, I very much ask that you and I now consider it as a reduced procedure. Who's going to report? Valérie Dubyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u106	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! During 13-14 years, the Trust Guarantee Fund introduced a temporary administration in 7 banks, and 2 banks launched liquidation procedures. And so far, there is a risk that several banks will be insolvent immediately, which will require the same fund again, to invest additional resources in order to exercise their powers. The bill proposes to supplement the State Budget Act 2014 with a new article 23-1, according to which the government is entitled to issue domestic government bonds over the established amounts in exchange for the financial bill of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons with an appropriate adjustment of the national debt ceiling. So the government issues a bond fund, the government gives a bill to the government in return. At the time of receiving the bonds, the fund can obtain credit from the National Bank in any other financial institution to pay to individuals or sell these bonds to operators. The bill is in agreement with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Ministry of Finance. This bill will protect the rights of investors, restore confidence in the citizens' banking system and the stability of the banking system. It is proposed that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 4983 as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are discussing a law that also regulates the stability of the banking sector, particularly the protection of investor rights. This is about changes to the State budget regarding financial support to the Fund for Guaranteeing Investors, primarily to individuals. Please, is there a desire to address this question? There are no wanters? They're desirable. Please sign up for two-by-two, two-to-one. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u108	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to emphasize that this legislative initiative will, of course, be supported by the faction of the Party of the Regions. Because we advocate the interests of investors, and we will take any steps that we can take to make changes to the current legislation of Ukraine by adopting an appropriate progressive norm. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this institution of financial notes was accepted by our own faction, which was constantly criticized by the relevant representatives of Fatherland, BUTU. And now they're offering these mechanisms to solve the problems of the fraudulent investors, and they're offering to solve the problems of the crisis in the banking system. So I want to point out that this is a little bit unfair. And I want them to admit, however, that these institutions are useful enough to use a particular purpose, particularly for the inclusion of extra circulation costs through internal borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u109	Please, People's Deputy Mirni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u110	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I beg you to pass the word to Yuri Mikhalchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u111	Please, Yuri Mikhalchiin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u112	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Without a doubt, the financial system of Ukraine needs to be stabilized because more emergency rescue is needed. However, the bill proposes measures that we feel do not fit today’s realities and require more complex regulation. To be honest, the changes proposed by the bill are designed to give the Cabinet the right to issue internal government loans for existing fiscal legislation. This means that the Cabinet of Ministers, in truth, has the right to correct the limits of government debt. To help me remember that in the last year of 2013, we had a government budget of 160 billion dollars funded from government loans. Then the way in which the problem is regulated will contribute to an increase in government debt by no means a reduction. We have expenses for public debt services that exceed all reasonable limits. Then it must be understood that in principle this bill violates the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Because under the basic law of the State, exclusive law is established by the laws of Ukraine and by the corresponding higher legislative body to establish the order of service of internal and external government debt solely by decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we are, for some reason, delegating to the Cabinet of Ministers, which, by the way, no longer corresponds to existing political realities. Because I remind you that we are now living in the parliamentary-presidential republic. Then, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that the bill has a number of systemic flaws that do not allow for a positive vote in accordance with the decision-making process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u113	National Deputy Kaplan, please. Passes the word to Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u114	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bank itself has to respond to its liabilities; it has assets and the sale of assets to ensure that the liabilities to the investors are met. To further secure investments in many countries around the world, Ukraine is no exception, additional tools are being created, such a tool in Ukraine is the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which is some kind of insurance to secure our investors' investments. Normally, I wouldn't support this law, but the situation in the banking sector is very difficult. What this law provides. And here some colleagues rightly note that there are non-standard standards that I have always criticized, because the budget has no right to contain an unrecorded figure of expenditure. In this case, we're dealing with a number that's not known. And unfortunately, we have to agree. Why? This tool is offered as an insurance mechanism. This does not mean that expenses will necessarily be incurred. But if there is a need to support the Fund’s Fund of Guarantee of Funds, because there is a lack of it for some accounts with depositors in bankrupt banks, such a standard should be supported without setting that number. It's also very important that this is about temporary inclusion of funds because the GDP is provided by the Deposit Guarantee Fund bills. In other words, the Deposit Guarantee Fund, at the expense of this banking system, has to reimburse the funds involved to solve the problems faced by the investors of the troubled banks. So I go to my colleagues, taking into account the uniqueness and complexity of the situation in which we are in support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u115	Dear colleagues! All those who would have had the opportunity to speak, as we agreed, we can make a decision Tuesday if we vote for the entire package of laws discussed today. I don't see a national deputy, Edina, who also wanted to report a decision on the stability of the banking sector. We will be able to arrive today and listen. The next question, colleagues (registration number 2330a) is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the development of the software industry and the implementation of the National Technology Project – the creation of innovation infrastructure and high technology." Please, National Deputy Omelchenko. There is no national MP, Omelchenka, that's what happens in life. Dear colleagues! I would ask the reporters to take my duties more seriously. And don't break the laws just because there's a desire to go to the buffet. The next question, please, is the draft law -- alternative laws (2244a) (2244a1) -- is a draft law. No, I'm sorry, I overslept. 2063, we have the next law. draft Act amending Chapter XX of the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code on Taxing of Subjects of the Software Industry. National MP Gordienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u116	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 9 October 2013 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code on the Specificity of the Taxation of the Software Industry (Registration No. 2063), and decided to finalize the bill and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill already elaborated on the Committee of the Supreme Council and proposed to adopt it as a basis. The bill is proposed as a temporary fiscal stimulus for the intellectual bridge and technology business in Ukraine to release IT-sector entities from income and value added tax for 5 years, with a further five-year income tax of eight per cent. It is also proposed for the first ten years of IT-sector entities to tax 5 percent of the salaries of IT professionals working in this field. The adoption of the amendments envisaged by the bill will allow for a refocusing of the national economy towards an innovative path of development, create more favourable conditions for participation in Ukraine of foreign direct investment, better world experience and new technologies, and create new high-productive jobs that will contribute so much to Ukraine's economic development at this time. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers generally support this bill. There are many comments that will be taken into account when the bill is adopted in the second reading. Therefore, the Supreme Council Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a revised draft law as a basis for its adoption. And I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u117	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u118	I think Vladimir Petrovich is here. He came in, he knew that there was a great deal of work going on around this bill as governments, including all of them, and all of them together, and he's very much asking about one thing, so that we don't export our brains abroad, but here, in our own country, we develop what we've reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue or an understanding position? There is no need to discuss. Is it? Yes. Sign up, please, 2 for, 2 for against. Please, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u120	Alexander Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, 27th District. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Sergey Volodymyrovich spoke highly of this law, and it must be supported. But when we were looking at the budget resolution for the coming years half an hour ago, for 2015, we were very much asked by the finance minister not to adopt laws that reduce budget revenues. Or find compensators. Because you can accept the option in the first reading and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u121	I got the offer. Please, the People's Deputy Kaplan passes the word to Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u122	Dear National Deputies! I will not be original, such a bill has no right to life. Why? Such decisions have nothing to do with investment. When I buy this bottle of water, I, in addition to the price to which the seller or manufacturer has the right, I pay a special tax, called VAT. The law they reported said: The VAT, the purpose of which is to complete the budget, is to put something on the road that we can't get into the budget. This tax is not paid by business, VAT is paid by the consumer. How can we set free what is not income calculation? We don't encourage an investor. I'd like you to recall Levell's company, which destroyed everyone who imported oil legally. How can you compete with a sector that pays neither excise duties nor VAT? In addition, when you enter a VAT exemption, it will only apply to imports. Why? The regime of exemption from VAT in relation to Ukrainian goods means that you are obliged to place the VAT on the price, otherwise there is no compensation mechanism. At the time of import, goods of foreign production are cleared of VAT because of such a process of tax collection. Thus, the release regime discriminates against the national manufacturer. Imports are becoming cheaper than Ukrainians. It is a unique policy that no one in the world is pursuing. A policy in which a national producer is discriminated against through the taxation system. I don't want to go into the details of other laws, but the problem of Ukrainian investment is not in this area. On the contrary, everyone should be on equal terms. Moreover, in Ukraine tax legislation is not subject to individual accounting. We have a boiler bill of income and expenditure. And it's not possible to allocate this AI or any other activity. Our faction does not support this law or the law that goes with it, the previous law, by which I was not heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u123	Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u124	Please pass the word to Alexia Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u125	Please turn on Alexia Furman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u126	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Technopolis are the most modern forms of science and production integration that create conditions for technological upheaval. The result is the emergence of a large number of innovations that can provide a powerful economic development for the State in the rapid development of their production. The bill proposes to supplement paragraph 15, subsection 10, of Section XX of the Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation, which defines the characteristics of taxation of subjects of industry, software production, new subsection 1.9, which states that "the rate of taxation on the income of natural persons is 5% of the income tax base in the form of wage paid according to the terms of the employment contract, the contract of employees of the company of the software production industry, whose posts according to the classification of the profession correspond to the professional class in the field of calculation." In this way, the introduction of a tax rate on employees’ incomes, subjects of industry, and software products gives advantages in taxation to workers of a particular sector, which does not take into account the situation in section 1 of article 24 of the Constitution, according to which Ukrainian citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. This approach was reflected in article 167, paragraph 167, of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which sets the income tax at 15% for all citizens of Ukraine, regardless of income levels, occupations, qualifications, and so on. Which is completely in line with one of the principles of tax legislation that provides for equal treatment of all payers before the law, the non-admission of any tax manifestation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Yavorowski, we finish the talks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trieste, Kiev, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, Jerzy Lietz once joked: even from a dream you can cook, but if you add berries there, add sugar. For 23 years, these walls where you and I are sitting have made beautiful wishes, beautiful dreams. Remember, free economic zones, where they promised that it would bring about the boom of the Ukrainian economy. Then I'll take the other steps, not count them. All of this was, it turns out, totally corrupt schemes that were made for someone specifically and lobbyed. Technology parks are the same, so let's say we call them. We've got another such delicate adventure, I'd say. In the appearance of what really needs to be supported by Ukrainian intelligence and so forth. But we're exempting 3 taxes immediately. So on account of the pensioners who don't get the money to the Pension Fund, we want to give a couple of people who run fancy technologies, we want to make them, we want to give them benefits. It's not worth doing in any case. "Paternality" to vote for this, this, you know, silently sublime law, will not vote for it. And I urge you not to do that, not to pick up the Pension Fund and give you a prerogative, a benefit for a small group of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, let's give the government a minute. Mr. Seminomist. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u130	Dear National Deputies! Clearly, we keep repeating the same traditional things. What an incentive means is that money comes from the budget. The question is quite different. What are the conditions for a new company, a new business, to be created? And there's already been a calculation. On the contrary, if, let's say, the only social contribution to reduce is to legalize wages and increase real income both to the budget and to the pension fund. And this is a one-and-a-half estimate. So the exact opposite things have to happen. Not by chance that many examples. Poland, China, India have exactly the same legislation. I would like to remind the honourable deputies that in 2012 there were deputies in this room and voted by a constitutional majority for this. Unfortunately, the President's veto came out because the councillors advised, they weren't, and they advised the wrong one. So I urge you, let's take this first reading, and then we'll work hard, maybe round tables, so that everyone understands exactly the specifics of all issues. And you and I are going to do a really good thing for the economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, we don't make decisions right now, I'll remind you. We'll make the decision next time. One minute, Victor Pinzenic asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a request from the chairman, first of all. We're looking at the changes to the Tax Code with you. I have always felt as a sinful act that the issue of tax policy refers to the competence of the Ministry of Finance, because it is taxes. I have a request to give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Finance in connection with this draft law, which has jurisdiction over tax policy. It's tax stuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, come on, we're just not getting there right now, I see, in time to discuss another issue. When we vote, we will certainly be able to speak to other representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by our fellow MPs from Eastern Ukraine, and I am very much requested right now, and we are also looking at a short-term draft of the Law (2203) amending certain legislative acts to provide social security to workers in mining, mining (carbon) enterprises, state-owned emergency relief services in the coal industry. Please, National Deputy Turmanov, 2203a is the registration number of this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy, Nuclear Security, considered at its meeting on 4 September 2013 the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of social security for workers of mining, mining (carbon) enterprises, public paramilitary emergency services (Registration No. 2203). [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft law was designed to eliminate social injustices in respect of mine workers and state paramilitary mining units. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, during the discussion of the draft.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u135	Please, colleagues, let's calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u136	At the meeting of our committee, it was decided that the bill should be adopted as a basis. But given that we will not vote today, I would like you to support this bill. This applies to miners and workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u137	Report in national language. Do not break the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u138	Please, please, colleagues, calm down. Please calm down, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, if you'll excuse me, please sign in. Colleagues, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u139	Please pass the word to Alexander Peace, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u140	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u141	Now. Now. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The question that is now raised is clearly important. But it is not possible to cover up anti - state actions by caring for either a mine of builders or someone else, for then the killings can be justified by those who are now being killed in Slovenian. You can do anything you want and cover it up. We agreed, there is a common position that if we report the bills, please respect the country that sheds its blood! To the flag! To your tongue! To the story! Let's at least report the laws! And you know our position, and you know mine! Shut your mouth while I talk! Then you'll tell! I mean, the builders' mine has to be supported! But, excuse me, let's respect the other Ukrainians who live in Ukraine, because what we do now is not respect, it's disrespect, it means spitting in the face of those mothers whose children are now being killed under Slovenian by terrorists! It's disrespectful to the state! It is disrespectful of all things, which is sacred to us too. So please come out, tell it, and we will either support or reject it. But we won't let you spit in Ukraine's face. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u142	The Kudra National MP, the Company, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u143	Vladimir Kudra, Communist Party of Ukraine, City of Alexandria, Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, I find this law extremely necessary. Because our city is also spectacular. And I want to add to this law, when there's a list of companies where employees need social guarantees, add the word "carbon and carbon processing," please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u144	National MP Momot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u145	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, a respected colleague, certainly told Alexander Borisovich so fervently that I mentioned not only Ukrainian but also English, French. I'm kidding. I think this bill for people with hard, hard work needs to be supported. Although our legislation must no longer be translated into benefits, the benefits are not budgetary but are monetary. This will be clear, transparent, and as is done throughout the world. In the first reading, I suggest that we support and prepare comments for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u146	Please, the national MP of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u147	Thank you. Dear friends, only two amendments to this mountain law must be taken into account. First. In addition to coal miners, the professions of miners and mining workers need to be added. This is the first time. And secondly, compensation for coal is paid to coal miners who work in mines and then, after this mine is closed. But during the liquidation period, there is no amendment, and so I very much invite everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-05-m1.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this project, we'll be determining for the next sessional week. Dear colleagues. Now, I'm sorry. I'd like to ask you. We have a few points about changing the boundaries of some cities. In the mood? Colleagues, very few people. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no way, I understand? Because our discipline is, unfortunately, very low. So, dear fellows, I am the only thing I can do to complete is an ad that does not require a vote. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Yuriovich, from the Party of the Regions. This concludes the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
