ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. I'm opening an evening meeting. And we will continue to work with you on draft legislation on second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I beg you to calm down, please. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the activities of shareholders. This is project registration number 2037. I'd like some respectable colleagues, if you please. Now, I see your hand. When it comes to monetary issues, other questions. In the morning, when we put it into the agenda, I gave the committee a commission to meet, to consider these issues and to make an offer on how to deal with them. As soon as the committee heads report that they are ready to consider these issues, we will consider them. All I'm saying is, dear colleagues, let's not play with toys that are dangerous, including, and we don't have to scare anybody, we have to work for the country, and I suggest we do it. And keep populism and other things safe in another case. Please, National Deputy Lapin Xenia Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u2	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill is aimed at a very important topic of improving corporate governance in Ukraine, this topic is now one of the key to the implementation of our investment plans, particularly in the successful future of our European integration. I want to draw attention to the fact that this is a pervasive bill, it already has a second reading, 227 amendments have been made. I can say that the committee, in difficult circumstances, has worked out some compromise, maybe not perfect, but one that takes a serious step to make our corporate governance clear, transparent and that protects investors' rights. I have a great request to support this bill as proposed by the committee. Because actually, at this point in time, this is more or less balanced legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, can we make a decision? Xenia Mikhailna, edited by the committee, or amended?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u4	It's better for the committee if no one insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, do you have any objection to the committee's decision-making? Colleagues, are there any objections? Dear people's deputies, when there are proposals for amendments, I'll go to the repairs, but it'll be a long enough process. Are there national MPs who insist on their amendments? Please turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head, last week you gave your word to the people who are standing on the street that Tuesday we will consider their question. Mr. Head, don't make us block the rostrum now so you can hold back the word given to the people who are standing on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a few questions. And the National Deputy Herman, I would like to ask: "Come on, don't play with toys that, believe me, are very dangerous to you, first of all, they're dangerous to you, do you understand? [[Applause]] So I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs to work in accordance with the approved plan. With regard to the Law on the Regulation on the Return of Currency Credits to Citizens who received these loans, I repeat, we have included four, even five projects in the agenda. They've been asked to examine the profile committee immediately as soon as the profile committees review, review these laws and provide the relevant information I'll immediately put them to the vote without delay. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The proposal, I take it, and active, all the deputies support it, as far as the bill (2037) is concerned, are the amendments? Please, the People's Deputies of Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! These are rights 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, and 53. What is it? There is a proposal that shareholders may choose only one person, the Monitoring Board. It is technically incorrect here, resulting in no matter how many shareholders, 5 per cent, 10, 20 per cent, 90 per cent will still have only one member of the Supervisory Board, the shareholder's representative. I think it's just some kind of technical error and we talked to the rapporteur before the meeting that this mistake needs to be corrected. I suggest you just remove one sentence from the text and everything will be fine. That is, to remove the word "to the composition of the Supervisory Board, only one shareholder can be elected.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u9	I want to explain. In fact, it's just a translation treatise, so let's say, the existing conditions for managing the shareholder for the new ones that we're proposing. The new conditions offer 50 percent of the Board of Supervisors are independent directors, it's the same institution of independent directors that many of you have introduced to their businesses if you want to go out. On important markets, it's the same institution of independent directors, which, in fact, protects rights, both minority and majority shareholders. In the case of minority shareholders, a cumulative vote is retained and allows for the appropriate selection of a director. And when it comes to delegated directors, this is absolutely correct, one shareholder, one delegate to the Supervisory Board, in fact, a natural person I emphasize, a purely physical person. That's why we think that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u10	I'm asking Xenia Mikhailovna, that's how the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u11	The committee’s proposal is balanced and correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u12	I see. Dear colleagues, who else insists on reform? There's no insistence. Therefore, my fellow Members, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please. Dear National Deputies! I also turn to the national deputy of Yemen, please sit down and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine the adoption of Bill 2037. Let me remind you, this is a draft law amending some of the legislative acts to improve the activities of shareholders in adopting it on second reading and in general. Your Honor, if you'd like to vote, please turn on the "Council" system. [[16:16:35]] For-153 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 47, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 1, Sovereign, European Ukraine – 26, Freedom – 32, KPU – 0, non-fractional – 17. Next question, dear colleagues. I'm the only one before the next question is an emergency. National MP Humil Mikhailo, please give me a minute for information.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u13	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fate of two Ukrainian citizens who have been held for almost two months in the territory of the Russian Federation. These are two young people: a student of five years of law at the University of Lviv John Frank and a graduate of the same faculty, Yuri Yatzenka and Bogdan Jaričevski, who have been held at a foreign detention facility in the area of Kursk in the village of Avdejevo since May. On May 20, an administrative court ruled that these citizens were expelled from the territory of the Russian Federation, but this decision has not been implemented for unknown reasons. Neither lawyers, parents, nor relatives are provided with reliable and realistic information about the fate and safety of young boys. Alexander Valentinovich, I would ask that you do the same to give an assignment and address yourself to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u14	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u15	took personal control over the fate and security of our citizens, and so did the Ministry take appropriate real steps to bring our citizens back to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u16	Thank you. I'm giving a protocol order on this issue to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, to protect the fate of every Ukrainian citizen, but those who have been captured by the Russian Federation. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, in order to address the State, I think we need to prepare a request and then sound it. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the only thing: before we go to the next question, we have a project that our citizens are really looking forward to, especially those who are defending with weapons in our country's territorial integrity. It's a project that deals with imports and vests and non-taxable helmets. I'd like to request a profile committee that has been commissioned to provide the necessary information. Please, National Deputy Homutinnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u17	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! We held a committee and decided to support the bill in its first reading and in general. But we need another 15-20 minutes, because we need to write the codes to the customs tariff to get through all the legal and technical procedures right. So when we're ready, with your permission, we'll ask you to set up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u18	I'm the only one to remind you that there were two alternative laws. I need you to figure out exactly what we're taking as the basis, or the common law on the basis of these two. Please, dear fellows. The following question is also reported by Kseniya Mikhailna Liapina. This is a draft Act amending the Law on State and Communal Property Rental (on Rent Relations and Prevention of Damage and Loss of Rental Property). Please, 2695.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u19	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, this bill on State and Municipal Property Rental, the amendment to the State and Municipal Property Rental Act, aimed at improving the efficiency of the use of state property transferred to the lease, preventing its damage and loss. Legislative regulation banning leased state property. With the renter’s obligations, of course. Thirty-five rights came in. 28 - counted, 7 - rejected. We propose to adopt the bill as proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, is there any objection to the support of the draft law itself (registration number 2695) as proposed by the committee? National deputy Golovko, please. The Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u21	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Kseniya Mikhailnna, we have considered this bill on the committee, but there are still a number of observations about it, especially considering that many state-owned enterprises have a large rental area. They practically hand it over to their tenants at low prices, and they in turn give it to other private entities. Of course it is. causing major damage to the State budget and thus avoiding any budgeting. That's why I would. My proposals, when the bill was previously considered, were that it was a matter of considering these possibilities to force the market price to rent these objects because it was a huge loss for the cost, for the budget. And we understand what the situation is now, how we need the funds, especially the funding of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So we have a point to make, and of course we're not going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u22	Thank you. I can say the next thing. Indeed, the problem that you have identified is, and it is very relevant. But it was this bill that was meant to solve a little bit of another problem. Rather, it refers to procedures and obligations, such as those in charge of the property, to the immediate removal of the property if, for example, there is debt. So in fact, in this case, we don't touch the rent price, we don't touch the rent price, we just regulate one part of the relationship. In particular, it is a matter of compensation in the event of damage, return from the rent of state property, and so forth. I mean, it's just the other part is regulated. And the problem you're talking about has to be settled, probably by another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u23	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, can we vote on the bill as drafted by the committee? We can. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please sit on your jobs and determine your support for the second reading and for the whole bill, registration number 2695. Let me remind you, this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental. Please, Your Honor, vote. The whole project, please vote. [[16:24:59]] For 190 We don't have a vote. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 57 - Fatherland, Party of Regions – 0, Hit – 30, 2 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, 34 – Freedom, 18 – non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, the next question we have is 2403, but the committee of profile asks to reconcile some issues with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and to move this bill to four. Next question, dear colleagues. Draft Law on Amendments to the Publishing Act. National MP Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u24	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party For Ukraine, faction of Fatherland, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Your opinion is proposed in Bill 0896 "On the Publishing Case", amending the Ukrainian Publishing Act. A table for second reading prepared by the committee was prepared in December of last year. Work on the bill was done in collaboration with the State Committee on Television and Radio and with the Association of Publishers and Publishers. The table for second reading is approved by this association. The second reading bill also received support from the Public Council on issues of publishing activity at the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. This bill provides for the clarification of the terminology of certain rules of the law in force regarding the procedure for the incorporation of publishing subjects into the State Register of Publishers, Producers, and Publishers, the issuance and cancellation of relevant evidence, and a number of other issues. The second reading table included 135 proposals and amendments, which, after several sessions of the committee on the bill, included all amendments other than one which the committee could not take into account in view of the limited financial capacity of the executive to implement the amendment. In view of this, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality proposes that the bill be supported in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention. In the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to support this bill as drafted by the committee. And I see we don't have any other suggestions in the room. The only thing I would ask is that we not only speak but also vote in favour of this bill. Dear colleagues, please, in the committee's office. To prepare for the vote, please invite all national deputies to the hall. Let me remind you that we're talking about a draft law amending the Ukrainian Publishing Act, which is 0896. I would ask the distinguished national deputies to support this bill in second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[16:29:13]] For 217 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 60 – Fatherland, 33 – Regions, 29 – Impact, 2 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional 30. I'd like Economic Development. I beg you, colleagues from Economic Development, Anatoly Kirilovich, are there any amendments to the law that you didn't support? Turn on the microphone of the People's MP, Philippeenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u26	Dear colleagues. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Our group believes that in this case it is necessary to agree with the conclusion of the General Legal Authority, which considers it necessary to remedy legal flaws in order for this law to work. So in our opinion, since this is an important question, if he was sent back for second reading, he was dealt with by the flaws that the legal administration was talking about. Because in some cases there are contradictions to the Constitution. We would also be willing to support this bill. Thank you. That's our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u27	Please, the chairman of the committee, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u28	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, there is indeed an observation by the expert administration. There are warnings against these observations, which were, more specifically, addressed on the committee. Well, we have a position like this. We've considered this bill on the committee twice. Its history dates back to 2011. Now, after the change of power, an inter-ministerial commission was formed in a professional vice-premier, and they were looking at this Bill Nothing that goes against the strategic direction of development in the bookstore, they didn't find it. So, of course, we can take it back to second reading. But we don't know what other standards need to be improved in this bill. All we could do was change, and all the adjustments we took into account. So you can put the second one on again, but the quality doesn't add to the bill. Why don't we go back to voting on the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, let's go back and support the law in the second reading, because this is an important issue and the support of the Ukrainian bookkeeper is an important issue. Please, Your Honor, let's still uphold the law. And please, for starters, return to the subject. Please, with respect to your return to this question, please vote. [[16:32:09]] For 252 Thank you. For 252. Decision taken. Please, in general, let's support this project. I'll remind you, his 0896 registration number, about the publisher's case. Please, change the law. Please vote. [[16:32:34]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question. Registration number 2749, draft Law on State Aid to Hostages Please, the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Politics, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrna, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u30	Alexander Valentinovich is a respected, respected friend! I'm asking for a few minutes of attention to get you to know what this bill is. This second reading bill is a requirement of the European Union – one of the first bills Ukraine should adopt in part to meet the requirements of European integration. I mean, until the second reading, every phrase, every word, every expression was completely agreed on -- she worked on the committee together by the European Commission. I sent Mr. Turkinov a letter of thanks from Mr. Tombinsky for the work of the Supreme Council and for asking him to adopt the bill on second reading without change. I want to point out that this bill is in place, it introduces, three years later it starts to work, only three years later, to be part of the country's adaptation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, please, let us treat each other with respect and listen to the reporter. Please. Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u32	It's being implemented in three years, it's allowing the Cabinet of Ministers and all the other authorities of the state to prepare, and in three years' time, a system of state monitoring will be in place, and evaluations, through an authorized body, which in each country represents an antitrust evaluation committee, so that the state doesn't implement aid where there might be a distortion of competition. State aid here is viewed as part of how the government can give and the local authorities, in any way. Small and medium-sized businesses, there are elections that read this bill, there are not people there who are social programs, there are many exclusions. And that's why I'm going to call the whole room: three years from now, this law will only work to give a very positive signal. I ask you not to insist or change the text of the bill, and accept it as suggested by the committee in the second reading, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, do you understand the proposal of the chairman of the committee? Got it. Please sit Alexander Volodymyrna, let's define by vote. Honorable National MPs. Do you have a wish to vote here, Alexander Volodymyrna? Please, there is such a technical possibility. Dear colleagues, an important law, I remind you that its registration number 2749 is a draft of the Law on State Aid for Hostages. This issue concerns many of our citizens and I am convinced that the whole Ukrainian community will support the adoption of this law. Please, Your Honor, 2749 in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[16:36:18]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I'm writing this result in disorganization. Please show the factions that MPs can mobilize. 66 – "The Fatherland", region 0 – the misunderstanding position of the Party of Regions. Hit 35, 23 Economic Development, 29 Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 Freedom, 0 KPU, non-fractional 35. Dear colleagues! Can we mobilize and help economic operators? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u34	We have to support you. I'm very sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u35	Please, Your Honor, let's go back to voting on this question and I feel that now 226 of us will be able to get votes with you. Please support the return to this question, dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u36	Vote, please. [[16:37:23]] For 223 Better, 223. Dear colleagues! Please, the Antimonopoly Committee insists on commenting. Is there a representative of the Antimonopoly Committee? Please include the microphone in the government’s bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u37	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Barash Mikola Yakovic, head of the Antimonopoly Committee I would like to support this bill for the reasons that this bill is primarily aimed at supporting our business with you. Which will allow us to translate. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u38	Ukrainian business, meant, respected colleagues! Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u39	Our business with you! We don't have another Ukrainian with you. And in this part, it'll allow us to translate the management tools of this business from the tools that we've adopted in Europe. Actually, only this transition will allow many questions to be recorded in relation to external control authorities to place this state aid on modern civilised rails. So this is an extremely important bill, it's being developed quite a long time here in Ukraine, they said that it's only going to start working three years from now, unfortunately, it's only going to start working three years from now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u40	It's not enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u41	work as fast as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u42	National MP Rosenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u43	Paul Rosenko, the strike faction, of course, I'm very surprised at the position of the Communist faction and the Party of the Regions, because the bill is aimed at transparency in the provision of aid. Are you interested today in all the help that comes to Ukraine, which is given to business, being competitive and transparent, so that everyone can see where, how and by what mechanisms is this aid being provided? Today, we know for ourselves what mode this is in. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you once again to come back to this question so that we can finally tackle these shadow schemes that are unfortunately present in this area for the sake of transparency of this market, for the sake of transparency in providing such aid to business today. So I would like to go back to the mentioned question and vote for everyone along with this question and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u44	Please, now. National MP Matvienkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u45	Matvienkov, faction of regions. Dear colleagues! We always understand that any action we take should simplify the settlement system, the regulation system, and not create too many obstacles. What do we do with this law? We just now hand over to the Antimonopoly Committee the right to regulate the mechanisms to which assistance is granted? What are the benefits? For what purpose is assistance provided? Yeah, there are monitoring systems in the world, so let's monitor this case, who's spent it? But to regulate and create a governance process, believe me, it's probably not exactly what we need today. This time. And the second question. The members of our group, our factions have made specific amendments, these amendments could correct this situation with this law, it is not clear why they have been rejected, we do not understand this situation, so we will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u46	Now, let's give the People's Chamber of Peace, and then Alexander Volodymyrovna will sum up the comments of the People's Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u47	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. If all those in the hall listened attentively, they may have noted a simple statement that, along with the representatives of the European Commission, all of this was written, read and slipped. There is gratitude from the European Commission and there is a desire to see in this way both on our part and on the part of those drafters of the bill and on the part of Europe. If we agree that we are moving in a certain direction, we should remember that there are certain rules in this direction. And I just want to tell everyone, first of all, to the coalition. Let's mobilize our people. Because it's probably wrong to call for opposition. Communists, regions have never seen themselves in Europe. If we see ourselves in Europe, let's finally force ourselves to work as members of the coalition. So the request is to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u48	Before considering this question, we understand the offer. Dear colleagues, come on, Alexandra Volodymyrna, a brief comment and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u49	Thank you for your discussion. I want to stress, I understand that this is Mr. Voropeyev's accent, because it's really a lot of amendments. Perhaps for the first time in the hall who saw this table, you saw an explanation for every deviation of the European Commission. And everyone. And not all of Mr. Voropeyev's corrections, they're rejected. What does Mr. Voropeiev expect? And why do I personally not want to be a public person? I don't want any government, no mayor to take a decision to support any enterprise, and no one knew about it, to quietly give one mine or one metallurgical plant and violate competition throughout the country. Mr. Matvienkov, I answer you, the first task of this bill, which is to amend Voropiev, is to remove the monitoring. You're right to say, the main task of the Antimonopoly Committee is monitoring. And the question of consent here is very carefully stated, by.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u50	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u51	Not all questions agree. I ask everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u52	Please give it to the People's Deputy Voropayev. Maybe we can find a format to support this project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, there is a pure deception without any specifics. Even those regulations which state that this body, in this case the Antimonopoly Committee, should ensure that this material aid does not lead to any distortion of competition on the market and to the imposition of an antimonopoly enterprise, even those rights are excluded. That is, with material aid, it is possible to create a monopoly on the market and to violate antitrust legislation. I don't get it. This time. And the second. Note that today there is also a second law, 2750, which explicitly states what document needs to be obtained in the Antimonopoly Committee in order to obtain State aid. That is, we are creating a purely corrupt scheme that will be managed by the people of the Antimonopoly Committee, and only through them will material assistance be available. I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u54	Unfortunately, Mr. Voropaev, you're lying. I'm reading your amendment number 4: "In the preamble to the bill, the word "monitoring state aid" is deleted." That's what you're proposing to remove, and we're leaving it. Then it's your turn. I read, and then you read, "State aid to economic operators is support in any form of management subject at the expense of the resources of the state or the local resources." You're further told why, the explanation is, "State aid always distorts or can distort competition, and it can be allowed to compete in cases where a positive socio-economic effect." Then a decision is made to benefit the State, even if competition is distorted. It's clearly written here. And I think the communists should vote for that. It's the most important bill that won't let the silencer steal money from government and local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I see we've discussed this enough, but right now we still have to figure it out. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, let's now go back to this issue of voting in general. If this is not supported, then we will make further decisions. Please, dear fellows. Please take your seats. Sit on the job so we can vote now. Please return to question 2749. Please, dear fellows. Please vote. For the competition and support of economic operators. [[16:47:12]] For 225 Colleagues! Edward Josephovich, did you vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, can we mobilize or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Will one voice stop us on our way to Europe? Let's mobilize! Andriyewsky’s national deputy has already come from the buffet. Please, dear fellows. Please come back to this question, let's vote. Mikolo Mikolaiovich, let's vote! Please. Push harder, harder. [[16:47:56]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, support the project. Alexander Volodymyrna, in general, should we vote? No, we're working on the Rules. Dear colleagues, please support Bill No. 2749 as a whole. Let us be inspired to vote. Please be supportive. [[16:48:28]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 72, Party of Regions – up to 1, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 26, Sovereign European Ukraine – 32. That's the position! "Freedom" is 34, the company is traditionally 0, non-factional 35. Dear colleagues, you and I have discussed issues, dealt with them more faithfully, a block of questions related to second reading, and I am again addressing, now, Vitalia Hometicnik, the head of a very important committee. Are we ready to work on our vests and helmets?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u56	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we are about to conclude, we are about to finish drafting the bill, why? Because it's a very good idea, and we approve of this idea, but in this idea, three lines. Free from taxation of imports into customs territory of helmets, vests. But we've forgotten that there's actual production, and now we're writing it out so that the manufacturer, the manufacturer's own Ukrainian producer, should also get the same kind of benefits that will be used and imported into customs territory. So we're going to ask for another 5 to 10 minutes, write about the production of our analog product, and we're going to be ready to vote. We also add to the questions of medicines offered by the people’s deputy Kugel and combine these two bills together with the Lazko bill and propose a comprehensive solution. We need 10 more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u57	Vitaly Juryovich, please mobilize. In order for us to be able to vote on this important issue today. Dear colleagues, now I would like to talk about the preparation of the issue of deposit, of the loans in the currency. Can I ask the head of the Alexia Kaidu task force to inform you how the situation on this issue is?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u58	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich, Honorable Fellow MPs. Today, at the age of 14, 30 minutes, the Finance and Banking Committee was to meet, but since the Supreme Council was blocked, not all deputies were able to attend the meeting of the committee of profile and consider extremely important issues for our caregivers. So that's why the Supreme Council committee couldn't look at Bill 4185a, 4185a-1 and 4185-2. I think we're going to hold a committee meeting tomorrow. But I would also like to bring to the session room the position of our foreign exchange lenders, who are asking to re-vote Bill 4895. And I'll ask Mr. Head to draft this bill again. If he, if we go back to his consideration and if we can vote in the first reading, this bill will accordingly be resilient. Which we can improve to the second reading and make suggestions, amendments. If the Supreme Council does not support this return and does not vote on the basis of Bill 4895, then, accordingly, the committee will consider the three versions of the bill, which have literally been registered today in the past week. Thank you. And I ask you once again to put the vote back on Bill 4895. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have a meeting on this issue this morning with the participation of the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine. And I'm informing you of the position they expressed at this meeting. If an unbalanced law is passed, international organizations will stop cooperating with Ukraine. And in Ukraine there will be a default with all the consequences! So, dear fellows, I would very much like to ask the caregivers, and I am speaking very loudly right now so that they can hear me. In view of your blocking the work of the parliamentary committee, the committee was unable to prepare a joint project! You're going to do that again, and you're going to block it, and you're not going to consider it at all. Period! [[Applause]] So I ask you to organize the work of the committee and of the Supreme Council. And for those of you who block the work of the committee and the Supreme Council, thank the investors who don't know how to return their deposits today. So, my dear colleagues, I reiterate, without considering the committee of three laws that have been introduced, including the National Bank of Ukraine and the production of a common position, the Supreme Council will not be able to make a decision. I'm asking the pickpockets to help the committee work, not to interfere with their work. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. It's a question of first reading. Please, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act in Ukraine. Please, People's Deputy Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Filipenko, Economic Development Group, Poltavščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u61	I'm sorry, Vladimir Pilipovich, you proposed a reduced procedure, right? That's right. Please support the proposal with a reduced procedure. [[16:55:02]] For 203 Let me remind you, this is a procedural question. Decision taken. Please follow the reduced procedure for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u62	Thank you, Mr. Head. The bill proposes to abolish the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act, which determine the formation and use of the area resources of grain. Questions. Why is it necessary to cancel the formation and use of such resources? The answer, colleagues, is very simple. And it lies on the surface especially for those who have chosen the majority system, who know what it is and what problems agrarians are facing right now. It's that individual government officials take bribes in size or 10 dollars out of a ton, or 1 dollar out of a ton in order to get the seed out. And this is all done under the form of district resources. District resources, I'll remind you, have been formed under the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act since 2003. According to the law, the government, which, by the way, the President proposes to eliminate, monitor the availability of food and food grain, and determine the current and projected level of security. In practice, the formation of regional grain resources is done only for food grain with the aim of providing stable prices for bread. Why might it be possible to cancel the formation and use of the grain’s district resources? The fact is that recently in Ukraine there has been a more effective mechanism of price regulation. That is, the agrarian fund is starting to supply flour and it's doing it very actively. First of all, it's done under the government's orders. Secondly, this is done to prevent price fluctuations in the bread market and in the bread and bread products market. The Agrarian Fund regularly reports on its website, by the way, that the supply of flour according to the requests of district government administrations has taken place, and that there is an intervention fund in each area. Thus, the agrarian fund provides regions with a sufficient level of flour stocks as a means of baking bread at prices fixed by the Ministry of Agriculture. In fact, Ukraine no longer needs a mechanism for the formation of regional grain resources. The centralized control of these resources now generates only huge bribes to the government, which I have already talked about. So please, colleagues, support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u63	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u64	Thank you. I ask you, as the author, to support this bill. Please also take a look at the committee's decision. The committee at its meeting considered the bill. The committee agreed, and today we also discussed this with the committee members, that the bill could not only be accepted as a basis, but also as a whole, because in this case it was only about repealing article 17 of the Grain and Grain Market Act in Ukraine. So I'm actually asking you, colleagues, to support the position of the authors and the committee and to vote in favour of this law on the basis and in general. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that I actually see hands for the performances, I ask to sign up for the speeches of all the deputies. Please turn on the " Rada" system. Please record the MPs. The word is given to Ivan Grigorovich, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u66	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! This bill needs to be supported, and it needs to be read as quickly as possible to clean up the collapses of normal agrarian policies in a state that foresees minimal interference with the activities of the owners. How many of these years have been affected by the collapses is one of the small elements of these collapses. The second element, let's be honest: the looted agrarian fund, which handled its time well with its main function. The main function was to regulate the market, especially the grains in Ukraine, when there is huge reprocessing and to remove the surplus from the market, and the corresponding funds were channeled by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. And in the next period, when the market deficit is directed as an intervention to avoid these sinusoidal jumps, rising prices in the consumer market. They've robbed the Agrarian Fund, now they're trying to privatize it and some other way out to cover the huge abuses that are there. Then, the approval of a union with some incomprehensible commercial structures, the price of the issue is calculated for agrarians by billions. Alexander Valentine's Day, I propose that those bills that "clean the collapses" on the road to agricultural production in Ukraine be put first. The faction will support this bill both in the first and second readings at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u67	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Furman, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u68	Alexei Furman, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Sabia Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u69	Please turn on the microphone of the Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u70	Igor Sabiy, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189th constituency, Hmelnichtina. Dear Society, we need to clean up all administrative influences on any commercial activity as quickly as possible, especially here. Indeed, the time has passed for us to develop regional grain reserves. Now, the Agrarian Fund is doing a great job of doing that, and thanks to its intervention sales at reduced wheat flour prices, and the wheat flour provides a lower price for baking the socially important kinds of bread. We have to cancel all of these positions about the creation of these regional funds, as it helped because the peasants took the extra money, they couldn't sell the produce they grew outside the area. To sell it, they had to pay bribes or sell it at actual underpriced prices. We have this situation not only in the grain market, but also in the milk market, in fact, so far some district administrations are allowing themselves, in manual mode, to tell where farmers are supposed to sell milk, which is not actually contributing to an increase in purchasing prices, which is actually limiting competition in the market. Anything that restricts competition in the market and anything that prevents us from increasing purchasing prices for agricultural products we have to take away. Our peasants are to receive a fair price for their produce. So the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will support this law in both first and second readings. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u71	People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u72	Vitalia Klitschka faction, Kaplin, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. We support this bill, more than that, we propose to vote for it immediately in general. This is a deregulation bill that liberalizes the internal market for grain. We all know the field is the heart of the Ukrainian economy. The flour, the bread, the grain is the blood of the Ukrainian economy. For a long time, Janukovič’s regime through his knee destroyed, broke the Ukrainian peasant, and broke the farm. Today's exclusive task is to clean up these bays, to create conditions for a real, real locomotive of the national economy -- agriculture has developed and has little of the necessary, critical competitiveness for European economies, agricultural economies, which would allow us to become leaders in Europe in this area in a short time. The Ukrainian village and the peasant depend on whether or not we have a competitive economy, or whether there is a future for Ukraine? Today, as always on the hill of the Ukrainian peasant, the Ukrainian future. Therefore, by this decision and many others, by dividing the position of colleagues, we must speed up Ukraine's path towards real meaningful development in this direction. Once again, our political power is to put an absolute order there to protect the Ukrainian peasant, to order not only in the grain market, but also in the milk market the situation and to ensure that the eternal dream of all generations of Ukrainians comes true. We had a better farm in the world, and our peasant squirmed rather than suffered half - bent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Momot, regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u74	Alexander Momot, 27th District of Dnipropetrovsk. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u75	Thank you. Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. Indeed, the formation of regional grain resources is primarily a stable price for bread in an appropriate area. But the price of flour regulation is passed by the Agrarian Fund. If we are today in charge of decentralization in cities, it would be appropriate to prescribe the authority of district structures in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u76	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, I would like to remind you, by a reduced procedure, that is guaranteed as long as it is guaranteed. So who's going to do the show? National MP Gordienko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u77	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! I think we were curious to hear this discussion. And they listened to the discussion, including the heads of the regions, the local authorities. I would like to remind you, Alexander Valentinovich and Ivan Grigorovich, that when price fluctuations arise, it is the President and the leaders of our government who say that this is the responsibility of the heads of the regions, and they ask us to ensure that prices are not allowed to rise. We don't mind if it is. But let's still ensure that it's effective. It's the mechanism for the cooperation of the agrarian fund and the organs of local self-government and the executive branch. Let's just listen to the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine so that we don't give up. We will not be hasty about this, nor will we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u78	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, the government today represents only Mary Mathios. Will you comment from the government on the law? No, there's no wish. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on this issue. The committee's offering. Let's take the first reading first, and then we can talk about the whole. Please, Your Honor, let's take it as a basis. I recall this bill (3140) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian grain and grain market law in Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote for acceptance as a basis. Based on the base. Comrades, come in, come in. Take a break before the vote. You see, it's only now that the MPs have come to their senses. I'll have everyone come to the decision room. Dear colleagues, I ask for a basis: a proposal to enact the law (3140). Please vote. [[17:08:03]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the offer is in general. Ivan Grigorovich, may we vote in general? Ivan Grigorovitch allows it. Dear colleagues, we can. Sergey Leonidovich, we can. Proposal: In general, adopt the law. The government doesn't deny it. We heard, yeah. Please, please. May I remind you, in general (3140) is the offer, please vote. [[17:08:47]] For the 250. Decision taken. The factions, please. 56 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 36, 30 - Impact, Economic Development - 28, 28 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 38. Dear colleagues, the following question is asked by the authors to move to the next meeting. And we are going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Decisions and Applying the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Please, dear fellows. Let me remind you, this is registration number 2237, which applies to this law ensuring the enforcement of court decisions. Dear colleagues, I apologize, we still have a lot of laws to consider in the first reading. Please support us to consider this whole package of laws as a reduced procedure. I'd like to support you, Your Honor, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:10:03]] For 204 Procedural decision. It's been accepted. Dear colleagues, please give the floor to Labazuk Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u79	Dear Chairman, national deputies, present! The draft law is proposed for your consideration: to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights. First of all, it should be stressed that this is a very important bill, since it is aimed at protecting the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, for the fair execution of decisions. I passed this bill a year ago, and the profile committee and the science and science department supported the adoption of the bill as a basis. Until then, however, Parliament had not come before its consideration. Without exaggeration, it can be noted that lawlessness in our country has come to a dead end from which to find a common way out. In recent months in particular, you and I have witnessed the abrogation of the Ukrainian judicial system, and what about the enforcement of decisions by European courts? Such lawlessness cannot be tolerated; people must trust all branches of authority. So our task with you is not to ignore the challenges of today, but to prove that the Ukrainian judicial system is capable of protecting the rights of citizens. What is the problem? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to the official data of the European Court of Human Rights, the number of rights coming from Ukraine is almost the largest of all members of the Council of Europe. Currently, Ukraine has 4 seats with Russia, Turkey, Romania, and the European Court of Human Rights. In fact, 1 in 10 complaints to Strasbourg comes directly from Ukrainian citizens. At this point, we're looking at an order of 8,000 applications from the Ukrainian prosecutor. It is very important to stress that 39.4 million dollars of compensation has been paid for the 2013 press service of the Ministry of Justice, as decided by the European Court of Justice. However, Ukraine’s debt of compensation at the end of 2013 amounted to 14.2 million dollars. Since the beginning of 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u80	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u81	No compensation was paid for the decisions of the European Court of Justice. So please support this bill. We'll be proud to look into people's eyes. In connection with the above. You, honourable MPs, reject your political ambitions, look at the problem that is very challenging in every city and support the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u82	Please sign up for the performance. Is there a report from the profile committee? Please, Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u83	Dear Chairman! Honorable colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice reviewed the bill on October 23, 2013. The bill aims to remove the gaps in legislation in the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in order to protect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. The Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Institute of State and the Rights of the Name of the Korean State, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council, the National University of Odessa Legal Academy, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, supports the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has an impact on the budgetary indicators and that if the bill is adopted, it may be put into effect no later than 1 January 2015. The Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice on the outcome of the bill's consideration has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I ask you to discuss this matter. The word is given to the People's Deputy Rosenko, the Strike faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u85	Paul Rosenko, Vital Caller Faction. And we really have a very, very, very paradoxical picture in Ukraine, where we need to have a separate special law to regulate or regulate how this decision is to be implemented and in which order it is to be implemented. That's a really weird situation. And what's really interesting is that these decisions are about protecting citizens' rights. As a rule, 90 percent of these decisions apply to the social rights of citizens. When it comes to the need for the State to make decisions in turn, some of these decisions are being implemented at the moment, at the same time, and do not require any further decisions. Unfortunately, we have a law that has been passed by a mistaken previous authority that applies, which sets out the procedure for implementing the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. And unfortunately, this bill establishes artificial barriers to the execution of decisions by the European Court of Human Rights in Ukraine automatically. And unfortunately, today we have to make changes to this bill to regulate and understand on the one hand the financial situation of today's state, but on the other hand, in Ukraine, so that the rule of law prevails. That all the decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights should still be implemented in Ukraine. Because integration into the European community and integration into the European Union must begin first by meeting the requirements of the European courts. That's why the strike faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u86	People's Deputy Hellaway, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u87	Please pass the word to Bondarchuk Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u88	Please turn on the microphone of National Deputy Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u89	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, we all understand the need for adoption and changes in legislation and the need for the decision of the European Court of Human Rights to be made in Ukraine. Yet there are some remarks to this bill. The draft deletion of article 18 of the law and part three, which stipulates that the procedure for the use of decisions and resolutions of the European Court of Human Rights and the approvals of commissions that are not translated into Ukrainian, significantly reduces the possibility of applying the practice of the European Court of Human Rights in Ukraine. And so the ability of Ukrainian citizens to protect their rights and interests by using this practice, as the legal position in the said decisions is not to be taken by the Ukrainian courts. This will create future legal coalitions and removals from the article in Part Four and Fifth, which determines exactly how the court should act in the event of language differences. Because their appearance is also possible between the regional decisions and the official translation into the Ukrainian language made by the representative body. The proposed delineation of the provisions of part one and part two of the current edition of article 19 "The application of legislation and administrative practice" in new article 20 "The provision of legal expertise in legal acts" does not add anything new to the legal regulation of the relevant social relations. It only violates the stability of the relevant legislation, which is one of the factors behind the proper legal order. Moreover, the result of such exclusion is the deletion from the law of part three and part five of article 19, according to which the representative body carries out checks on valid laws and regulations in accordance with the convention and the practice of the court. We believe that the removal of these provisions may have a negative impact on the compliance of Ukraine’s legislation with the requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u90	The People's Deputies of Doubenkov, the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. Debenkov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Ladies and gentlemen, here are some representatives from the UDA party saying that the previous power was absolutely unnecessary for society to apply the law and enforce the rulings of the European Court of Justice. This can be said only by a person who has no bearing on law - enforcement activities for the execution of court decisions. If it wasn't for this law, your honor, the decisions of the European Court of Justice were not implemented, that's the first. Secondly, we define the very useful nature of the bill because it aims to shorten procedures for the enforcement of judgments by the European Court of Justice. And to ensure timely and objective translation of the placement in publicly available sources of the relevant text of the judgments of the European Court of Justice. This is very important. Why? This is especially important for judges who engage in legal activities. And this is important for legal professionals and ordinary people who apply to the European Court of Human Rights after the use of all means of national protection, to protect their constitutional rights and legitimate interests in the European Court of Human Rights. In particular, the bill proposes to ensure the publication in official sources of printed and on the official website of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine of the full text of a decision translated into Ukrainian. What previous reports have noted is that the exclusion of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law "On the Application of the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights" and the enforcement of the decisions of the relevant court is excluded from certain provisions relating to the absence of an official translation of the relevant decision, I believe that all certain disagreements can be rectified during the second reading. But in any case, the idea of increasing the use by the courts of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the access of citizens to the relevant decisions is necessary. So I propose voting for him as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u92	People's delegate to the Philippines, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u93	Jeremiah’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u94	Passes the word to the national deputy Jeremiah, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u95	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! On many occasions in our country, it has been said that the courts are the ones who make the most of the wrong decisions, that they are corrupt. A few months ago, we raised questions about the illustration of the Ukrainian courts. More than 8,000 appeals from ordinary Ukrainians to European courts. These are the people who haven't found protection in Ukraine, and today, when they get positive decisions, they can't get results -- these decisions aren't being implemented. None of the copies that have been handed down in European courts have been compensated to Ukrainians today. One of the requirements of Maidan and precisely one of the reasons why people met in Maidan was the European choice and decision to be taken by European courts. That's why I'm addressing all the people's deputies today, and we think that the faction of the Sovereign European Ukraine thinks it's absolutely necessary to adopt this law today, and it's expected by all the Ukrainians. And this may be the basis for Ukrainian courts to make fairer decisions so that our citizens do not seek such decisions in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. The proposal made by the people's deputies is to support the authors and the committee by voting this law as a basis for the first reading. Please, Your Honor, sit on your posts and support the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Decisions and the Application of Practices of the European Court of Human Rights (Registration No. 2237). Dear colleagues, please, on the basis of your support. Please vote. [[17:23:17]] For 277 Decision taken. Are we voting on this project for a shorter procedure? Come on. For the summary procedure of preparing this project for second reading, please vote. [[17:23:41]] For 205 The decision is not taken. By full procedure, we are preparing this law. Please, Your Honor, please go to the next question, this is the draft Law on the Elimination of Excessive Regulatory. The Kovalchuk People's Deputy Project. Please, 3236 registration number. The law is reported by the national deputy solda, coauthor of the law. We've made decisions, Your Honor, that all laws are short-circuited, I'll remind you. Please, Oksano Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u97	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! I want to present you with a very different view than the projects we usually consider with you. This is a project that envisions a conceptual approach to deregulation in Ukraine. I have personally, since 2006, participated four times in various deregulation processes, and you and I know it doesn't help much. Each of us, each of you, are making bills in one part or another that would take away corruption or help people or business there. At the same time, there is no system, there is no general vision and movement to really free the economy from the corruption that exists. This bill, which I'm about to report to you, is about the conceptual liberation of the economy from the corrupt pressure that it is today. What does this bill propose? It's actually very simple to understand, but it's very difficult to execute, the project only provides for 5 articles, 5 steps. We're proposing that the first thing we're going to do is we're going to decide 365 days later that 87 laws that are in force today are going to go out of business regulation exactly 365 days after the adoption of this law. What are we still saying? The government, together with experts, together with international organizations, public associations in accordance with the Regulatory Policy Act, will be obliged to prepare a block of decisions within six months that will ensure real production security, consumer safety in Ukraine. Next: the next six months are left for us with you, for Parliament, or for this call, or for the next summons, in order to adopt exclusively the standards that are necessary for security in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u98	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u99	The bill supported two committees: education and fight against corruption, and four other committees believe that it can be accepted, but after further work. I'm asking a lot of questions, and I want to explain to my colleagues why. This bill may not be pleasing only to those seeking employment for the next many years after deregulation. Because this project is making the government's economic programme, the project is forcing the government to introduce new, completely new European principles for regulating Ukraine's economy over the course of the year. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u100	Please, the head of the profile committee, Mr. Alexander Volodymyrna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! It must be harder for me to tell everyone that I personally voted against this bill as chairman of the committee and committee. And I'll explain why, understanding regulatory policy and deregulation is really important in the country, but it's not a faithful state policy, it's not a state decision, it's not a government decision to abolish 87 bills at the same time. I want you to hear which bills are being annulled entirely: The Forest Code, the Wastes Code, the Earth Code, the Water Code, ecological expertise, plant protection, animal protection, quarantine, and so forth, 87 bills. Tell me, please, when they stop and continue to be commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare new drafts, someone is counting on there to be at least one Kabmin who will exist enough to prepare 87 bills. Unfortunately, we have to take the step that you've already taken, and we've cancelled 113 permits. It's a very hard job. Here's a bill you're looking at, making changes, another bill. We can't cancel the regulation and change it with deregulation, where we need to make deregulation in the Forest Code bill, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it, we can do it. And that's why the committee's decision doesn't support it, and it's back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u102	I've got the position. Please, Your Honor, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up. Please, People's Deputy Vitov, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u103	Please tell Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u104	Please turn on Irina Farion's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u105	I give my word to Mr. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, determine who to give the word to. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u107	Okay. Paul Kirilenko, the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" Unity. In fact, despite very good declarations, the law is absolutely wrong. What will this lead to? Complete elimination of licenses in all areas of activity. We need to think about protecting our environment, about our habitats, about our forests, and about our education. The language is used, including in education to eliminate licenses in the educational process, in educational institutions. It is suggested that the right law is to be adopted, which is needed by society today, not to turn everything upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u108	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ionov, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u109	Please pass the sale to Oksani.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u110	Please turn on Oksani Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to you, absolutely everyone who's in the room, to what has just been said by the committee, to what Mr. Kirilenko has now made a mistake when he was speaking, in fact, it's not in the bill. The bill foresees that within six months the government will be obliged to prepare new rules for regulatory policy in the state of Europe, clean, non-corruption, together with experts. And what it says here is that one year after this law is passed, only those parts that apply to the regulation of those 87 laws will become invalid. I would like to quote, "Since the entry into force of paragraph 1 of the Act, legislation has been applied in a part that does not conflict with the Code." And once again, the deregulations were, there might be a lot more, but they're always made by officials. It's the only mechanism to get officials to make real deregulation because they're either preparing new projects with us, along with experts, with the world community, or they're out of work. It's the only mechanism to force government officials today for one year to really change the economy. If we were standing with you. I'm now addressing members of the coalition. If we stood with you to keep the entire regulation in Ukraine waiting for the IMF tax, we don't vote in favour of this project. If you and I want to create conditions for our own business, we really need a project that will force all government officials, all officials now to seek expert support and prepare new standards -- non-corruption and pro-European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u112	National MP Gordienko, please, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u113	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Fellows, the Honourable Citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Company of Ukraine very carefully considered the bill at the faction meeting, and there was a very interesting discussion. Of course, there are many issues that need to be addressed in our economy. But it was by considering all the pros and cons that the faction of the Company of Ukraine decided to support the committee's decision to send the bill to work on it. And the next. I'm paying attention to the chairman and the colleague. Last week, we had a protocol commission to review this week's draft Law on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities into the National Currency. And here we actually called thousands of people to Kiev. We cannot let them go today without even giving them some hope. Any version of the bill that solves this issue will have to be supported by the faction of the Company of Ukraine, but let's go back to that question. People wait, many people die, people lose their possessions. This is a very important question! More important than deregulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u114	Please, Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u115	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Dear compatriots, colleagues! I would like to say that this bill is, unfortunately, an example of legal nihilism. How can we do that, and one legislative act to abolish 87 other laws, while important laws?Oh, my God! And how can government regulation be abandoned in the first place? And this is one of the functions of the state. The other thing is that this state regulation should be optimal. There are areas in social life, in production that just need state regulation and influence. This is primarily true of the areas of safety, health, human life, compliance with certain standards, and production standards. And that's why our "Paternity" faction supports the decision of a professional committee on entrepreneurship and regulatory activities to reject the bill. And I would advise my colleagues to take legislative action more seriously. The Fatherland faction won't vote for him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. And we need to make a decision. I ask the honourable national deputies to sit in their seats and prepare for the vote. Let me remind you, we're looking at Project No.3256 on the elimination of excessive regulation, and now I'm asking, honourable colleagues, to decide on the support of this law in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[17:36:38]] For-126 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 7, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 35, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 26, 31 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I have now been approached by the head of the Vitaly Hometinnik Committee and informed that they have already drafted a draft law that deals with the immediate needs of our Armed Forces, the National Guard for Armors and Helmets. I'll remind you that these are two laws that apply to Customs Regulation No.4199a and No.4199a-1. And these are also two laws that apply to the regulation of taxation of this product No.4200a and No.4200a-1. Please, Your Honor, as we agreed, please mobilize so that we can now identify ourselves from this issue. I suggest the next formula. The authors of the laws report very briefly. May I remind you, this is National Deputy Kugel and National Deputy Lazko. And after that, the head of the committee, and we make decisions, as agreed, with respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Or there's a proposal immediately for the committee head to speed up the process. Please, Vitaly Hometic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u117	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Today, the Committee has considered two bills submitted to the Supreme Council, the principal and the alternative. One draft of the Law before the Tax Code, the other before the Customs Code. Both laws provide the possibility of extended taxation of helmets and vests. The First Bill of the People’s Deputy Lazko speaks of these very means of individual protection. The second bill of the People’s Deputy, Kugel, adds medicine. The drugs that are needed during an antiterrorist operation and a certain amount of help. I want to remind you that today we have a 7 percent VAT on drugs after the last changes. This is about the possibility of cancelling even this seven - percent bet on the drugs that will be used in the place needed to do so. A list of these benefits will be published by the Cabinet of Ministers. This, in general, will allow you, of course, to purchase more personal remedies and more drugs. If you take the current rate of duty, today you have 10 percent and 12 percent on helmets and vests and 20 percent on added value taxes, respectively. I spoke separately about the medicine. As far as this bill is concerned. This bill will act during the period of the anti-terror operation or the implementation and operation of the military state accordingly. Two.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u118	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u119	We have tried to combine these two ideas, these two bills, and in the final decision of the profiling committee, we propose to take on the basis and the whole of the bill of the People’s Deputies of Láška. And to add to this bill the proposals of the people's deputy Kugel. And in the end, vote in favour of the draft decree, which is recommended by the committee. The codes for these benefits and the procedure for granting the benefits are clearly provided. And we've also clarified separately with the authors all the technical stuff in order to make this bill effective. I don't want to read 3 pages of text here right now. But if there is a need and, Mr. Head, there will be a need, I will read all this text. We worked with the authors and the profile committee. Unfortunately, I don't think they've been able to print yet, because they just finished all these meetings. Here's the deal. To accept as a basis and as a whole the bill first, this is the bill of the 4199th People's Deputy Láška as proposed in the committee's decree. And the second bill, 4200a, is also a national deputy, Láška, also taking into account the committee's proposals, which are set out in a separate decree. Thank you. And once again, I repeat that the proposals of the people's deputy Kugel are included in these proposals, the proposals that I've just read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u120	Dear colleagues, I'm only asking. Vitalia Yuriovich, one minute. There's only one request. As far as medicine is concerned. Because in principle, a very broad list of medicines that are needed for treatment, including, you know, many are being treated for the serious injuries of our fighters. It's so that all the firms under this formula don't try to go through the drugs they're implementing, but they don't go to military, military, wounded, hospitalized, etc. So I'd like us to settle for the amount. And which should be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Otherwise, I say again, under this formula, any amount of medicine can go without a moment, without tax. Can we put it that way? Yes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote in an editorial that has been announced by the head of the committee? Will you support me? You'll support it. We're not hands, we're voting. Yes, thank you. Irresistible, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u121	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, I support and many other non-faction deputies support this bill. But it should also be taken into account that the raw material used to produce these, such as vests or helmets.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u122	This amendment is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u123	Yes, and it is essential that a domestic producer be able to expand its production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u124	That's right. This is reflected in the amendments mentioned by the committee’s chairman. Hirschfeld, please, National MP. Your microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u125	Thank you. I believe that it is imperative to take into account in this law who must be the recipient in Ukraine. Because we are giving benefits without understanding who will receive them in Ukraine. And it's not a fact that the Ukrainian army will get armored vests and drugs cheaply if they're dispersed at zero rates and then reselled to the army through commercial structure. Therefore, in the list of disfellowshipped persons who receive these benefits must be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u126	Logical observation. Please, National Deputy Homutinnick, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, this proposal is taken into account. And the point is that this benefit is given to the buyers. Whether they are part of an anti-terror operation or the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Here in this position. However, other military formations made in accordance with the laws of Ukraine by other entities involved in the fight against terrorism are prescribed by law. And I want to add that we've also added to the final edition the possibility of aiding to produce our own, our own production of armored vests and helmets, those corresponding to their production, so that we don't compete unevenly. Therefore, this proposal by the national deputies is also included in this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u128	Thus, it is the military formations that are directly engaged in the fight that protect Ukraine that are the subjects of this law. And here the mediators rule out and there is no way to make money on this for those who are not helping to protect Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is an offer of support. First, let's do it as a footnote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, is there a need to discuss it? Well, let's talk. Please, Sold, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u129	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, Vitaly Klicka Faction supports the proposed winters, because they are really necessary today. At the same time, we have a question. Can we hear the editorial that is proposed for voting? Because the more we discuss, the more new texts appear, the new paragraphs in this bill, so I think that we, and we think that we all need to hear from the rostrum the text of the bill under the transcript, and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u130	Dear colleagues, please, from the regions: Herman, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u131	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, we ask you very much to include in the list of those who will use those drugs, as well as the victims of the civilian population who suffer as a result of military action -- that will be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u132	Yes, it is. That's a very smart offer. Of course, civilians affected by terrorist acts also need to be included in the list of those who will use these drugs at tax rates. Please, there is a suggestion that the chairman of the committee read out the full contents of the law. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u133	Alexander Valentinovich, you've made a very nice proposal, which was in my project, the whole bill that Mr. Homutinnik is proposing and adding, "According to the Cabinet of Ministers list." We understand that the Cabinet of Ministers is going to vote and see through every position, and they're going to choose only the necessary tools, and the medications that we're saying are going to the hospital, the pharmacy is going to go, and the armored vests, helmets, and so on. And that's why the whole bill, which he wouldn't be now, that Mrs. Sold is going to be settled, balanced by a list of cabinet ministers who will review again all the necessary requirements so that there will be no corruption, and that will be normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u134	Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u135	Thank you. First Bill 4199, amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. Considering that the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law prior to the amendment of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Special Means of Individual Protection, submitted by the People’s Deputies Lazko (Registration No. 4199a). Accept it as a basis and generally taking into account the following suggestions. First. The title of the bill is as follows: "To amend the Tax Code (in quotes) "for special means of individual protection and medical treatment" is to unite these two bills. The other one. Section I, paragraph 1, of the bill reads as follows: Section III of Section XX of the Final Positions adds a new sub-item: "Temporaryly, during the period of an anti-terrorist operation, and, or the introduction of a state of war according to legislation, are exempt from tax on the added value of an import operation into the customs territory of Ukraine and supply in the customs territory of Ukraine, dot. Special means of individual protection, helmets manufactured according to military standards or technical conditions, or their equivalent and specially designed components, i.e. helmets, shock absorbers classified in the UTZ6506018000 product subcategory, according to the UTZ. Armoured vests classified in product subcategories 621141439,000 according to the UCC. Made in accordance with military standards or military conditions for the needs of law enforcement agencies, the Armed Forces and other military formations established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine, other entities engaged in the fight against terrorism in accordance with the law. Second block. Medical supplies and medical devices in accordance with Subparagraph B, paragraph 193.1 of article 193 of this Code, which is intended to be used by health institutions and participants in the ATO to provide medical care to individuals who have suffered injuries, injuries, or other health injuries during the course of an antiterrorist operation or the introduction of martial law. The second point is, it's all technical. So this is a draft of the 4190a bill. The second is to read, is it possible to vote on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u136	Dear colleagues! I don't understand if the approach is the same or not? And to the second law, the same formula, just here, duty, and there, value added tax or vice versa.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u137	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u138	Is it accepted? I don't think so. The strike faction has a note. Please turn on the microphone. Who's going to come out of the faction? Mr. Kowalczuk Vitalia, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u139	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. I have specific questions, please say the bill states, "in the course of an anti-terror operation," and how will the outcome of an anti-terror operation be established? Because it is possible to adopt such a law, according to which it will be possible to carry goods without customs or otherwise appropriate, including medications.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, the decision to initiate and complete an anti-terror operation is taken in accordance with the Terrorism Act, which is fixed documents with signatures and seals. So both the beginning and the completion are fixed dates. Please. Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can. Dear colleagues, please announce that all deputies come to the hall with a very important question. You realize that it applies not only to our military but also to civilian citizens, especially to medicines. I would ask your colleagues to support, on the basis and in general, the completed 4199a project, taking into account the comments and suggestions that have been made in the session room, particularly the head of the committee. Please. Dear colleagues, I say once again that the project has more than just helmets and vests. But there are also materials that apply. Yes, there is, Vitaly confirms that there is this position taking into account this position as well. which are imported into Ukraine to make helmets, helmets, and vests, and so on. Please, Your Honor, 41999 (a) support as a whole. Please vote. [[17:54:25]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I ask that we take this as a basis and in general the second bill (registration number 4200a), also all along with the comments and suggestions that the committee has announced, which were highlighted during the discussion of this law, particularly the chairman. Please, Your Honor, support as a whole. [[17:55:09]] For 262 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. We've helped, we've helped a lot, our military, who are protecting Ukraine. Please turn on the microphone. He conveys the word to Valery Suškević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the committee has just met at its meeting to discuss issues related to the bill under number 4022a, authors: Orotuk, Stojko, Greenewecki -- about what concerns the precise status of the participants in the fighting that today are fighting to protect the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State in the East. Dear colleagues, taking into account the discussions of the Ministry of Defence, the National Guard, in particular its legal administration, the Ministry of Social Policy, the State Service for Disabled Persons, Veterans and National Deputies, the committee has been rewritten as follows: Alexander Valentinovich, I will allow myself to read for the protocol to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u142	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u143	For a shorthand, I have to read this line that takes all the first readings into account today. In doing so, I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national deputies to the comments and additions concerning the direct involvement in the counterterrorism operation of all those people, of whom today, military and reserve personnel, military bounds, and others, who have participated directly in the areas of the antiterrorist operation. Thus, the second reading edition reads as follows: "Those who are members of the armed forces of Ukraine, the National Guard of Ukraine, the Security Service of Ukraine, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the State Border Service, members of the military and primary forces, members of the military service, members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Department of State Security, the State Intelligence Service and the protection of information of Ukraine, others established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine military formations that protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and took. I'm paying attention! And they were directly involved in an anti-terrorist operation, secured and carried out, directly in the areas of the anti-terrorist operation, as well as employees of enterprises, institutions, organizations that were involved and took -- again, I am paying attention -- directly involved in the anti-terrorist operation in the areas of its execution in an order established by legislation. The procedure for granting the status of a participant in a combat operation to the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this paragraph, the categories of such persons and the terms of their participation in an anti-terrorist operation, as well as the areas of the anti-terror operation, shall be determined by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we've worked very closely with the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, and we're thus proposing to you this paper to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? The second and the whole. Please sit in your workplace, this is an important issue that is regulated by this law. It refers to the defenders of the homeland. Please, Your Honor, support the law as a whole, taking into account the position expressed by the Head of the Committee regarding the drafting of the law. Please, Your Honor, vote. Let me remind you, this is a project (registration number 4022a) to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection. Vote please, Your Honor. [[18:00:20]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The decision in general is taken and there is a request from the head of the Committee on Questions, from which questions, entrepreneurship, regulatory and anti-monopoly policy, Kugel Alexander Volodyrimyrovna, that we ask the last question, (I would continue our work for 15 minutes), to decide on a draft Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Please, Your Honor, let's support this. It's a simplification of procedure, it's the protection of our entrepreneurs in the difficult conditions they're in today. Very briefly, Alexandra Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, thank you very much, this is an example of how, without repealing just the bill, we need to write a new bill at the request of today's society. It is, first of all, an indicator of the ease of doing business. And that's why we prepared it with an international financial corporation, and the adoption of this bill, both in the first and second readings, is in line with the financing of the country by the International Monetary Fund. What we propose is to implement through a new bill. The only governmental principles of licensing. Timeless license. The license money stays in place. A 30 - percent reduction in the type of licence is due. We're subtracting maximum production from licensing. Because they have many other standards, folders, certifications, permits, and so on. We're making corruption impossible by putting procedures first of all into the application principle. Increasing the responsibility of officials to the licensing authority, which takes time to issue. A clear distribution of powers. The list of grounds is very clear for annulment. I mean, the bill introduced European licensing practices. This is a ban on licensing authorities when they get licenses, demand help, extracts from registers. We cancel one state surplus register for the first time in our lives, because they're all just created. And that's money. The introduction of a license into the country register. Not the paper, but you're on the register, and any government official can check you out. And a lot of other money. I mean, there were 26 round tables. This is probably the first time that all the deputies of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ours are the authors of this bill. We worked together, we had 26 working groups. There is a note, there are proposals from various subjects of entrepreneurship and held bodies. We got 'em.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u147	We will certainly consider these second readings. Everyone supports us and asks you to support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-01-m1.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, should we discuss this? You don't have to, do you? However, the proposal is based on the first reading so that the project can be finalized before the second reading. Therefore, fellow believers, I ask you to sit down and support the draft Law on the licensing of certain types of business (registration number 4743). I would like to remind you that this refers to the simplification of the business management system in Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, support 4743 as a basis. Please vote. [[18:04:23]] For 224 Dear colleagues, should we make the final point? Alexei Kaida asks that he is unable to get to his place of work. Dear colleagues, we cannot part without giving a positive vote, please let's vote. Dear colleagues, please return to this question, 4743, I remind you, the registration number, please, we don't have respectable colleagues, we vote, let's go back to this question, please vote. [[18:05:08]] For 233 We're back on the subject, and I'm asking you to back up for the first reading of Bill 4743. Please vote. [[18:05:33]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, it's a good chord for today's meeting and we're finishing work today. Tomorrow, the Supreme Council continues its work at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
