ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The Parliamentary Secretariat is requesting that an announcement be made as to the need for all the people to enter the session room so that we can continue our work. Please, colleagues, sit down and we'll work. We have many important questions to consider. As long as the MPs are coming, I want to make some announcements. In particular, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples' Deputies and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the withdrawal of the Communist Party's Communist Party from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The signature of the national deputy Kaletnik. Next statement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report my withdrawal from the Communist Party. It's the signature of the national MP, Skarbowiyczuk. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am already asking the question not optionally, but specifically before the regulatory committee on the question of the competence of the continued presence of deputies in the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. And I call on the national MPs, especially those who run the factions, to remind them that the discipline and duty of the national MP is to appear at the sessions at the proper time. I ask that you and I now confirm Parliament's readiness to work. I'd like you to register with the National Deputies. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:08:31]] There were 288 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council can make responsible decisions, I hope. And we continue our work, especially the evening session. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the first reading. And now I ask that we consider the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2014. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal to deal with the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:09:45]] For-137 No, I don't want to, I mean, under a reduced procedure. We're going to start looking at this issue on a full-time basis, but don't be offended that your questions, which are in the order of the day, may not be in the order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you want to ask me one more time? Dear colleagues, I think you just like the voting process, because you're constantly -- again and again. We can stay the night and train. When it comes to the use of the "Race" button. Please, Your Honor, once again support the proposal to deal with this issue in a simplified manner. Please. [[16:10:44]] For 158. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Slapak Alexander Vitaliyovich. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's State Budget 2014 Act for the election of the President of Ukraine to the Central Electoral Commission has established budget allocations of $1 billion 175 million. Since the elections took place without the need for a re-voting, the budget economy has cost over 600 million dollars. Contribute the relevant resources to finance the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to make payments to military personnel carrying out tasks in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas would enable a number of current tasks to be addressed by the Ministry of Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I have quoted a letter from the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, to the government asking them to make appropriate amendments to the 2014 budget, which we have done, and I present it to you. There is a proposal for the saved 600 million dollars to be transferred to the Ukraine Reserve Fund by such a chief executive as the Central Election Commission for the further financing of the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Reference: Today, according to our military, not only the Ministry of Defense, but also the General Intelligence Directorate, the State Department, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Guard, the State Border Guard, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Intelligence Service, the External Intelligence Service, the Department of Emergency Situations, the overall need is almost, not nearly, but slightly more than 16 billion dollars. So we're still going to have to look for this resource, and so these 600 million would be very appropriate to finance the first priority needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'd like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u3	Dear colleagues! From the profile committee, I'm asking his head, Mr. Eugène Borisovich, to make a co-report. Instead of Geller, does he want to report? The procedure, according to Mr. Geller's report, please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The budget committee at its meeting on June 18th considered Bill No. 4078a. The legislative proposal does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources, as it is proposed to carry out, within the overall scope of the budgetary allocations of the General Fund of the State Budget, the redistribution of expenditure between the budget programmes of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Electoral Commission. In view of the economic availability of part of the expenditure associated with the election of the President of Ukraine, the bill is balanced by the state budget. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council, number 4078a, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u5	Thank you. In a short but very professional report. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion. Please, National Deputy Illenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u6	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear National Deputies! Of course, we need to support this very important bill, because it seems obvious here that the additional funds that have been saved in the President's successive elections will be sent to the Ministry of Defense to our Armed Forces in order to support them and, in fact, to provide them with the necessary material security. But, dear friends, today we have had many drafts under consideration by the Supreme Council, which unfortunately do not receive enough votes. I'm not even going to appeal to the representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists right now, they're clear. But they don't get enough votes from coalition representatives and it's really a disgrace. Dear friends, a number of such initiatives have not been voted on today simply because of basic non-discipline, and again, unfortunately, there is a situation that, after a lunch break, national MPs gather very slowly. Alexander Valentine's Day, you've recently found the right initiative to close the buffets at the time of the meeting, if it doesn't sound funny, but I think it's necessary. Because there's a war going on in the country, and Parliament's pushing because there's a basic kind of blubbering and undisciplined, individual national MPs who can't get to work on time and press that button. So from our faction, please, Mr. Chairman, we need to keep the order in order so that there is some kind of discipline. Because we're failing important votes because there's no discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, the only thing I want to say is that faction leaders are responsible for the discipline of factions. I would like to ask the heads of the factions, the deputy leaders, to take responsibility for my duties and to ensure that factions are fully operational during the sessions of the Supreme Council. The word is given to the People's Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u8	Please pass the word to Paul Rizanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u9	National MP Rosenko passes the word to Paul Rizanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u10	Paul Rizanenko, strike faction. The strike faction absolutely supports the bill. In fact, the bill provides for a change in the schedule of funds and a change in this assignment. If a mere change of appointment or appointment were to take place, the Supreme Council would not even vote for it, and this would be achieved by a simple agreement with the budgetary committee. The project is completely technical, i.e. it does not have any conditional political exertion. The money that was saved from the fact that the elections were held in one round is redistributed to the contingency fund. They will continue to be used by Kabmin from the contingency fund according to urgent needs. That's why I'm here addressing everyone, including the Party of Regions and Communists, to support this technical decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u11	Please, National Deputy Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u12	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, I can't agree it's just a technical matter. No! No! It's a big deal! This is when the money left by the presidential campaign goes not to populist things but to war, to the preservation of the lives of our troops and the civilian population. But the government has allocated a lot of money, virtually seven billion. But one tenth of them were used. People's money is one tenth. Two things are not done: the government's unspecified mobilisation plan and the government's unapproved state defense order. Without two of these things, it's impossible to use this money quickly and quickly. So once again, I'm going to the government, and I'm going to go to wartime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u13	Thank you. Please, from the faction of Chechetov's deputy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! Actually, we're having some kind of half-breeding day today. First, the obstruction to the President, one of the factions of the majority, did not support the appointment of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Then the second obstruction of the second faction of the majority was not voted in favour of the candidature recommended by the President to Nazbnak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then there were thousands of people. Thousands of people did not vote with the Council of Ministers to return their currency contributions, yes. But it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u15	We're discussing changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u16	This money, which is actually saved, let's make it into a budget and use it with the mind of the State. Therefore, once again, it was quite right to say, not in the Party of the Regions, but in the majority of which is not in the Hall. You said it yourself, yes. So support, support this law, yes, do not be ashamed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u17	People's MP, Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u18	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Here a forerunner tells of the benefits of our people and how he is concerned. I understand that it is the factions of the Party of the Regions that do not benefit from further financing of the army, because they are more likely to fund separatists. In addition, they are likely only sleeping and seeing when the Russian army enters the territory of Ukraine and does everything and hides people. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union was in favour of Law 4895 and would continue to insist that this bill be passed. But now we are dealing with the financing of an additional army, the Ukrainian army, that will protect and protect the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian territory, even those who are sitting here, in the session room, and are covered in the name of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u19	Please, Your Honor, let the head of the Committee of the Budget People's MP Geller speak and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u20	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I ask the people's deputies not to pry into this situation and not to tell which faction supports and which does not. I want to tell you that I represent the faction of the Party of the Regions, and I read from the rostrum that the Committee supports all of this. Therefore, please let us go to the vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u21	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I would like to remind you that there was a proposal in view of the fact that the law does not require further development, the specific use of funds, and their purpose, as defined in this law, is to protect our military for the needs of the Ukrainian army that are protecting Ukraine today. Asking for support not only in the first reading but also in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please be seated in your seats, and the Secretariat will make an appropriate announcement. Please, colleagues, sit down. And to support the bill (registration number 4078) on changes to the State budget for 2014 on the security of the state. Dear colleagues, this is important. On the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, support the offer. [[16:24:17]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, Party of Regions – strange, 43, Impact – 33, Economic Development – 29, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, next request. There is the Prime Minister's request. Excuse me, Minister of Finance. You see, I raised it like Alexander Schlapak. So we can look at the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code, which he will also report, and so that he can then go to the Ministry of Finance. Dear colleagues! I asked you to turn on the broadcast on the street. That's why I want to announce for those, first of all, who are near the Supreme Council. Dear citizens! The Supreme Council is very careful in its consideration of the matter and is very serious about the matter, and it is responsible for solving the problems of those who have taken loans in exchange and because of the increase in the rate, they cannot return them at the proper time. It's a serious problem, we understand that. But this problem cannot be solved by the adoption of a law that does not work within the National Bank or the Ministry of Finance. That's why Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank received an order Tuesday, the next session Tuesday to go into the hall with a joint bill. With visas and the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank, as well as the National Committee and the Working Group dealing with this issue. And only in this format can we solve the problem. Without the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers, without the participation of the National Bank, this problem cannot be solved. It can only be worsened. I am convinced that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank, together with Parliament, can solve this problem. So please, my fellow Members, do not show too much emotion, but cooperate peacefully with the R side group, Natzbank and Minfin in the direction of working towards a single but real, not populist law. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, we're moving on to Project 4930. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Specificity of Acclarating Tax Obligations for Business Income Taxes and Taxes on Added Costs in the case of Tax Compromise. An important question, please, Finance Minister Šlapak Alexander Vitaliyovich, for the parliamentary rostrum. Wait for the vote, we have to report first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u22	Dear Sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u23	Alexander Vitaliyovich, I understand that you support the idea of a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u24	I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u25	Dear colleagues. There is a suggestion to consider the questions in the first reading, which are now in the order of the day, by a reduced procedure. Please support, Your Honor, the reduced procedure for dealing with these issues. [[16:28:01]] For-200 Decision taken. Please, Alexander Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u26	Dear Sir. Honorable National MPs. I'm going to start with this almost detective story. By the end of 2011, 120 of Ukraine’s largest entrepreneurs had been invited to a meeting with the State Tax Service. He was then the first deputy director of the State Tax Service, Mr. Klimenko. On the table he had a stack of large folders, he had a very short speech, he offered virtually all of Ukraine's largest business a specific form of taxation, taxation, which was later called "tax through tax holes," or tax grounds. An entire government program was launched, which was run directly from the offices in Lviv Square, which involved all the district and district tax inspections. So the entrepreneurs, by virtual force, forgot about the folders, they had criminal cases against entrepreneurs and the entrepreneurs were offered a choice: "or we're dealing with you according to the Criminal Code, or you're agreeing to work through those agents that the tax service is giving you." So once again, I want to emphasize this, entrepreneurs were actually forced into tax pits. The tax pit is a fictitious economic entity that deliberately fails to pay added value taxes and creates tax benefits for the real economy. They provided businesses with the following services: legalizing black or smuggled goods; saving VAT and income taxes; paying salaries in envelopes; paying bribes to civil servants; paying commercial commissions and discounts; and paying commissions and discounts on government tenders for actual supplies of goods, jobs, services to organizations and institutions. They led to the direct theft of state - owned enterprises’ funds without real supplies. These services were taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u27	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u28	Six, and they ended up nearly 12 percent. I'm afraid there's a lot of entrepreneurs in this room, people's deputies who are familiar with this scheme. In 2013, we had only the largest VAT losses due to the tax pits in Kiev, Donetsk, Kharkiv, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, Kiev, Odessa. It is estimated that the amount of wages in the envelopes in 2013 was over 200 billion dollars due to the scheme. In 2013, nearly 5 million individuals were paid less than the minimum wage. In 2011-2013, i.e. in three years, no taxes have been paid and government funds have been stolen for almost 300 billion dollars. We found ourselves in a difficult situation. After all, all entrepreneurs who in this way violated legislation today find themselves under the punitive sword of today’s justice. Each of them can be visited by a tax officer, an ordinary policeman, an esbeacher, any representative of the force structures, and present him with a claim that he was mistaxing his income in those years -- 2011-2013. We spent a lot of time talking business about how to be. And on their initiative, we offer you this day a non-traditional step. This is the implementation of the tax law in force of the Institute of Tax Compromise. That's what it's all about. Well, first of all, it's possible for businesses to voluntarily clarify their tax liabilities for the added value and income tax that are questionable for any period until 1 January 2014. After that, pay 15 percent of the commitments you have made yourself. That, along with what was paid as a tax commission, would make up 85 percent of the cumulative liabilities of enterprises. I want to emphasize again. Tax compromise is the right to voluntarily clarify the business of its VAT and income tax liabilities. In the bill, we wrote clearly with business and tax services how this is to be done, how much time is spent in making decisions, how much time is spent in making and in what form are specific commitments. How tax work is done if it agrees or disagrees. All of this can be seen in a document given to you to your knowledge and to make a decision. I would like to conclude by stressing, honourable national MPs. A bill that, in our opinion, solves so many of the problems that have been left to us by the previous authorities. If we don't accept this bill, unfortunately, we're going to get a huge field of abuse, corruption and further pressure on the business, which, by no means will have been driven into the situation that I've just told you about. His acceptance, in our view, will allow us to resolve the problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u29	Read the questions. We have a reduced procedure for dealing with the issue, and it does not provide for a question. Thank you, Alexander Vitaliovich. May I have the co-rapporteur, National Deputy Oksana Prodan?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u30	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The Committee on Tax and Customs Policy considered this bill on May 28th and suggests that you support it in the first reading with some comments. Why just the first reading? Because, in fact, yes, the question is very important, and today a large number of businesses, entrepreneurs who couldn't get around those tax pits that were created in the past regime, are under the Damoclus sword. Or they'll be shut down, they'll be eliminated, they'll cut jobs, or they'll shut themselves down, and they'll go bankrupt. We can't let that happen. So today we should vote on this project in the first reading. Why just the first reading? Because there's nothing in this bill about counterparties who have tax payers who get amnesty. There is nothing in this project about only VAT and income taxes, or any taxes that have not been paid by the taxpayer for three years before. Similarly, a very poorly defined process of compromise is itself. She's not clear, she's complicated and she doesn't understand. Moreover, despite the fact that there is no decision regarding companies that are already accusing and having problems with the tax authorities that will be with them. But there are additional powers of the tax authorities. That's what can't have happened when it comes out of the Ministry of Finance. We ask you to support this project, but with additional changes in the first reading. The law does not modify either the Criminal Code or the Criminal Procedure Code. So what we're saying to the business is that we're going to relieve it of its responsibility is actually not going to work. So I ask you, Alexander Valentinovich, to support this bill in the first reading, provided that the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code are amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a desire, I see hands, to discuss this issue. Please sign up. Please sign in. Please. The word is given to the Peace People's Deputy, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u32	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Basically, it's a question. Understandably, everyone understands well what schemes were in place when they were in charge, and I do not know which, in the winter, the yuppie, or the young generation of our country. Clearly, there was a mass of companies that were driven by force under so - called schemes into these so - called tax pits. But there are a few questions right now, and it's clear that, by the way, we probably need to support this project. But the question is: How can we separate those who were persecuted from those who went there voluntarily? That's question number one. Question number two. Why is it only 85 percent of the total liabilities that were to be paid when we are entitled to pay 15 percent? And most importantly now the question that I want to say on behalf of the faction. So when we have a question about industry, why does everyone take a stand -- we have to help? So there's a lot more to the question than those people who are now blocking the Supreme Council, and here we say we have to wait. So I'm sorry, I think there's a question of order of 14 billion dollars in the case of people, so let's give 2 billion that have been stolen and brought out abroad, we'll just come back and then we'll keep talking. So let us make decisions that are balanced and right. We have to support this bill -- we will support it, but let's not go wrong. There are businesses, and there are people. So people are the main ones, and businesses are the secondary ones. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u33	People's MP Pinzenik, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u34	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In our economic history, there are many things that our descendants will marvel at the decision and what happened in the country. But much of what happened in Ukraine has happened in other lands. Unfortunately, what we're discussing right now is an unprecedented thing that's likely to be surprising around the world. Because it's a phenomenal thing, when the authorities and institutions, whose task is to ensure the completeness of tax collection, create and force businesses, the economy doesn't pay taxes, creating different tax evasion schemes. For normal conditions, the law that is passed would be very abnormal, but we need to get out of the realities that have taken place. Sadly, a large part of the businesses there did not come out of their will, and they were forced to do so. And the authorities have enough tools to get many Ukrainian entrepreneurs to pay taxes in this field. And as a result, the Damocles sword hangs over those who were in the process and over those who didn't want to be in the process, but were forced to do so. There is a dilemma that my colleague spoke of: perhaps it would be necessary to divide those who initiated these processes from those who were under control. This cannot be done for a simple reason because it creates conditions for corruption. So I think the government is coming out with the right, unfortunately, inevitable solution in this situation that we have to solve this problem, we need to help clean up the papers, the accounting papers for our Ukrainian businesses. And forever, I hope that Ukraine will never face such a disgrace, because otherwise I cannot call it a disgrace when the authorities create so-called conversion centers, centers of tax evasion. So our faction proposes to support this law in the first reading and perhaps to the second reading take away some of the warnings that our colleagues have.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u36	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. I support this bill and I ask you to pass the word on to the podium of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u38	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished presiding officer, present. Indeed, the idea of introducing a tax compromise institution in tax relations that took place before 1 January 2014 is a progressive idea, but only in principle a progressive idea. Because this bill actually contains a lot of flaws that create this process. tax compromises are the process of harmonising tax obligations between the tax authorities and the tax payer on a voluntary basis, I stress once again on voluntary principles on mutually beneficial terms. A corresponding obligation to pay 15 percent seems quite attractive to business. But it is important to note that these conditions should be voluntary. Alexander Vitaliyovich of this rostrum noted that the tax system is voluntary, but unfortunately it is misleading because according to paragraph 12 of this bill, if large taxpayers do not make a precise calculation of the tax reduction on the added value tax, with income tax, they will be tested. So those large taxpayers who are budget-forming, and we know that about 60 percent of the general budget in the part of the tax revenue is forming large taxpayers if they don't take advantage of it, they'll come to them with a check and they'll add up with all the law. You don't have to do that. That's the first one. Secondly, by supporting, once again, the very idea of implementing the tax compromise institution, I note that the reconciliation procedure is rather not transparent. Because when precise tax calculations are made, they may think or be inappropriate. Righteous, objective amounts have been underpaid by tax payers or not objective? If they are not objective, the taxpayers ’ objective view is that they will come back with a test. What do we support as a faction of the Party of Regions? We note that the tax system is needed to also dismantle the courts. We have a lot in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u39	Give me half a minute to finish the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u40	Very much in court cases, let us unload this category of cases with our courts in order for the state to receive some profit, income tax, added value, tax liabilities, and income tax. That is, in the case of presumptive, certain checks, the taking of relevant tax returns by the taxpayer, if he is willing to pay the part, he can simply give the tax a correspondingly precise calculation by specifying the tax return of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Xenya Lapin, National Deputy Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u42	Xenya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. In fact, the situation is totally unorthodox. The alternative to tax compromise can be only one – the criminal persecution of thousands of officials, businesses from large to small, who, in fact, did not have their will, for the most part, find themselves in a situation where they were simply forced to work with a clear list of firms that were actual tax pits. We simply have to find a way out of this situation. And I also want to point out that this bill is a positive budget. Because it is no longer possible to obtain all tax liabilities that have been made through tax pits. All we can do is destroy the company. But if we can get at least 15 percent, that means the budget gets a plus. At the time, the situation in Georgia was almost the same, and then the Georgian budget received substantial funds, at the same time unlocking the opportunity to work for businesses. But here's a situation where "the devil is in detail." That is why this bill can only be adopted on the basis. Because in fact, there are still a lot of questions about the reconciliation of liabilities, about what happens to counterparties, about what happens if there is a discrepancy in the reconciliation data, the firm declares one, and tax finds other amounts, and so on. All these answers have to be put in place -- this is an extraordinary project, actually a one-time operation. So he has to be thorough, almost instructive. The second reading will have to be completed very much. And finally, I want to talk about the question that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u43	For half a minute, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u44	Half a minute. Which was asked by representatives of small businesses, because I want to say that unfortunately, the previous authorities had not even scratched small businesses and forced them to enter the tax pits. They said one thing: we just don't have the money, even 15 percent, we're almost broke, and that's a problem, because if a big business still has some resources to get to the next stage of development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u45	So small businesses don't have that kind of resources. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, I can only see a few hands, I can only see the factions and someone from a non-faction date. Please, National Deputy Jeremeyev of the "North European Ukraine" faction. One minute, please. Maybe we could save some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u46	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honourable Head, Honorable Ukrainian People! We know very well who has been or is engaged in entrepreneurial activities, which in our country tax comes to all the major taxpayers. Because it's easier for the taxpayer to test one company, to count hundreds of millions than to run 40 or 50 tests, and to count 40 million by 500,000. Clearly, the former authorities, when they came up with a scheme for the accumulation of illegal funds and the creation of tax havens called state tax havens, the first ones they came to are large enterprises, because it's easier to run, and it's easier to test. And it's clear that today, when we talk about what happened in the state that billions of dollars were removed from the State Budget, when the Cabinet of Ministers and the Tax Office propose to implement the Amnesty Law, it's the right law. There's a concept of tax amnesty all over the world. But you have to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u47	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u48	But it must be understood that this law can only be adopted in the first reading and is very important. Why? First, we have a political and financial crisis today. We have market cuts today. Clearly, these companies today cannot pay these costs. Why? Because the tax haven took these costs away from them, and today 15 percent is an extra cost. And most of all, it's a small business issue. Minister, listen, please. Questions in Small Business Why? Because in small businesses, the light industry, the shoe industry, is the price of 300-400 percent, and in large manufacturers, the price is 3-4 percent. And once again, you will come with this law to major manufacturers. So it's only in the first reading that's considered. And not 15 percent, but the rate should be floating according to the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u49	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski. He's both acting for himself and for the Opponent's deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u50	So, honourable national MPs, I'm surprised at the context in which the government proposes to adopt this law. One hundred and twenty large businesses, the managers of these companies in conspiracies with the Yanukovic family, stole 300 billion from the Ukrainian people. Wait. What are they now offered to forgive, dear colleagues, to help them not to pay? One hundred and twenty men, the new Attorney General, are called to account that no one else in our country will ever use the benefits of these pits, is the first. Second, I have a question: how many governments have these converters taken to stop being tested and those companies that used pits have never again been liable to the Tax System? People are on the street, they're taking apartments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u51	Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u52	People are on the street, they're taking apartments. People don't pay their savings, their deposits. We forgive hundreds of millions of unpaid taxes to companies. Let them take out the offshores and pay a hundred percent of taxes, no benefits, all 100 percent. What does that mean: 15 percent of what was stolen? All 100 percent! Otherwise, it's prison.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Thank you, thank you. Colleagues! One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, you know, it's kind of strange to hear some MPs say we have everything transparent in Ukraine. To remind you, more than 70 percent of past times have been in the shadow of money. This is more than 70 percent of entrepreneurs have to be put in jail as a former colleague has just shouted. So really, the bill is very useful. Here we should thank the government for their first success and support the bill; that they first agreed to the tax amnesty and offered taxpayers tax compromise. We need to save the country and the budgets together. And it's the entrepreneurs that are pulling our country out of the economic crisis right now. They need respect, a dialogue with them, not a prison. So I suggest that I go out and talk to these hotheads. And next time. I also propose to the minister, if this is, in fact, the very corrupt tax of VAT, to make a proposal that next year we do not seek compromise again. Allowing people to work freely, transparently, to reduce taxes. If necessary, cancel the VAT and replace it with taxes. Thank you for your attention, and I would like to vote on it even in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u55	Thank you. I get it, in general. Half a minute. Dear colleagues, come on, we won't be able to come up with any other questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u56	Because as long as we're delaying, we have to understand, it's every day of testing. It's what entrepreneurs do every day, and it's what they collect, and it's what they take away. It's corruption. So let's go over it together. I propose that we vote in general in this room, and that we give business a free breath and pay a decent salary to our people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u57	Thank you. This was professionally performed by the national MP Opanaschenko. Because we didn't introduce him before we started. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this in detail, and I understand that the Supreme Council is ready to decide how to vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'll remind you that there was a proposal for the adoption of Bill 4930 in the first reading, which is the basis. Dear colleagues, that's in the second, we'll be working on the second. The second reading could be followed up on this question. Dear colleagues, I am not the author of the project. Colleagues, the offer of first reading support. Colleagues, please sit down. With the committee's proposal. Okay. Is that what you meant? Okay, with the committee's proposal to work on the second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please make up your mind. Registration number 4930. Please vote on the basis. [[16:54:15]] For 262 Decision taken. The factions, please. 60 – Fatherland, 41 – Regions, Impact – 32, 33 – Economic Development, 30 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35.0 – CPU, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues! Please, we are now considering question 4991, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and the documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status. Please, Your Honor, consider this law. I invite the head of the State Migration Service, Councilman Sergey Ivanovich, to the rostrum. I'll remind Sergey Ivanovich that we're looking at this issue under a reduced procedure. So you only have two minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u58	Dear Alexander Valentinovich. Honorable National MPs. You have been presented with a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single Demographic Register and the documents supporting Ukrainian citizenship, certifying the person and special status developed by the State Immigration Service to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to identify digitized fingerprints as the basic biometric parameter. The purpose of the project is to create the legal basis for digitizing fingerprints and introducing them to non-contact electronic media. First of all, it's a Ukrainian citizen's passport to go abroad, a diplomatic passport, a Ukrainian official's passport, a seaman's license, a crew member's license and a citizen's passport to go abroad and a refugee's passport. In this connection, the draft amends articles 3, 7, 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register, according to which fingerprints are defined as one of the basic biometric data of a person and will be submitted to an uncontacted electronic document that identifies a person for going abroad who will allow the person to be identified at border crossings. The order of receipt of digitized fingerprints will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to say that the Cabinet of Ministers has already made an appropriate decision, where the production of a Ukrainian citizen's passport to go abroad with a non-contact electronic medium will only take place on a state-owned enterprise. The approval of Ukraine’s draft legislation, which is directly aimed at fulfilling Ukraine’s commitments to a European partnership for visa liberalisation by the European Union for Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Packaan Valeriy Vasilovich. Please sit down. As head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u60	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Human Rights Committee, national minorities and international relations at its meeting on June 18th considered the above-mentioned bill on the Single National Demographic Register and documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship and certifying a person or his or her special status. What is the essence of the bill? This is the amendment to articles 3, 7 and 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and the documents that confirm Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his or her special status, by which we will define fingerprints as one of the basic biometric data of a person and will be submitted to an uncontacted document to go abroad. This above-mentioned legislative act is in the second phase of our implementation of the visa-free regime and in its conclusion the committee requests that the bill be supported in the first reading. There are a lot of differences, and we would like to work on them further so that this bill does not contain differences in human rights violations. Please support this bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u61	Thank you, please. Honorable colleagues are willing to discuss this matter? Yes. Please sign up for the performance. Please, People's Deputy, Ginka Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u63	Please turn on Victor Chumak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u64	Victor Chumak, faction of the political party Vitalia Klicka. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to support this bill. It is, if you remember, that we simply clean up the imperfections of the Single Demographic Register Law. We are cleaning up the imperfections associated with the vast corruption that were involved in this law. You remember that this was supposed to be done with biometrics in this law, about 20 documents that indicated the person who granted the right status. So this bill, more faithfully, this law made a huge amount of money at the expense of taxpayers. Today, the introduction of biometric data, i.e. the digitization of fingerprints on electronic media only for documents, allows the state budget to be saved by about 250 million dollars this year for the creation of a biometric database. So in our view, this bill is very important. It's different. This is exactly what biometric documents for going abroad allow our citizens to go abroad in visa-free mode. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko. He conveys the word to the national deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u66	Please pass the word Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u67	Oleg Pankevitch, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed an important bill. But despite the obvious benefits of Ukraine’s approach to visa liberalisation, compliance, this law, which is amended, as well as the bill, has certain shortcomings and serious risks. Thus, a part of society does not agree that their personal data and, in particular, their fingerprints are on a religious basis. Part of society believes that this is a violation of the Constitution, their own right to personal data. And part of it is going to go through how this data is going to be used under the conditions of today’s Ukraine. In these conditions, unfortunately, our law enforcement authorities still do. There is a great danger that after the adoption of such legislation, this information may well fall into certain structures. And there is a danger that the number of unjustly convicted will increase. Of course, these reasonings have the right to exist. And so in order to solve this problem, we think we need to give the right to choose. You have to give people the right to choose passports with appropriate biometric data, including fingerprints. And also those who do not want to do so need to be given such a right. And so from the faction, we suggest that, in order to change articles 19 and 11 accordingly, the position should be taken "at will". A very short offer, but the essence of this law changes considerably. And so we can do the right thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u69	This will enable us to fulfil our commitment to the European Union and to protect the rights of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u70	National MP Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u71	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, Alexander Momot, 27th District. Please pass the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u72	Please turn on the microphone of the German People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u73	Dear friends, dear Mr. Head, surely all the governments of Ukraine that worked were on the road to abolishing the visa regime for Ukrainians. This process needs to be completed. And this bill contributes to the completion and speeding up of the visa waiver for Ukrainians. Of course, the Party of Regions will support this bill. Although it has to be said that fingerprinting should still be by human consent, voluntarily, and, of course, everyone has to take a voluntary step, deciding their fate here. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u74	National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u75	Please pass the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u76	Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy or from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The system law that exists from this problem provides for many positions, including, as head of the committee, some positions can be considered through the prism of conflict of interest, of interest between those who produce documents. It will produce documents or a state and exclusively a state as an imperative norm, or it is possible to produce others. Although the basic document does not mention who else is still in the picture. But in principle, this possibility and the existence of a conflict of interest exists. So I believe that what Sergey Ivanovich reported, the Head of the State Migration Service, has every reason to vote in favour of this bill, but, in agreement with Mr. Pankevich, only in the first reading. Why? I remember when I adopted this bill, perhaps colleagues remember, here at the Supreme Council, next to the profile committee that considered this bill on human rights, there were not every day such as the demonstrations, but much larger demonstrations of those people. I'm not going to say that they were brought here in an orderly fashion, and I'm not going to say that someone was giving them the wrong information, but they were. These were the people who thought it was the number of devils, the numbering impossible, that it was devilish, satanic things and so on. Dear colleagues, I'm not convinced that these people have become smaller, I think in today's radicalization of society they've become even more. And so it seems to me that I just need to reconcile what is now proposed in the bill that the State Migration Service has drafted with the existing standard of law, the existing norm, I stress, the law, and this article 16 part of the second part, and there is already that persons who, because of their religious beliefs, refuse to submit information to the contactless electronic medium implanted in the relevant form of the document are guaranteed the right to refuse to submit information to the contactless electronic medium. So, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u78	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u79	Thank you. So it's enough just to extrapolate, to transfer the standards that are now being proposed, to those that are in article 16 of this law, and this problem will be removed. Although, frankly, I don't know if this is going to solve all the problems, we still have to prepare for what there will be a lot of people who will oppose this law. And now, you see, legislation often depends, not on a rational aspect, but on an irrational one. We need to be ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue, discussed it, now we have to make a decision. There was a proposal to adopt this draft law in the first reading, that is, as a basis. There were no other suggestions from the speakers. Please, Your Honor, sit down and remind yourself, this project, the adoption of this law, will allow us to speed up the visa-free regime of moving our citizens into the territory of civilized countries. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote and support the project (registration number 4991) on the basis. Please vote. [[17:08:41]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues, we can. The factions? Please, by faction, Parenthood 60, regions 39, 31, Impact, Economic Development 29, 26, Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 21. Next question, colleagues, the draft law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced citizens. Let me remind you of this elaborate project, and the word is Valery Vasilovich Puckan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u81	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, distinguished presiding officer! You have two pieces of legislation, 4898 and 4898-1. 4898-1 was distributed now in the hall before lunch, it's a hundred percent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this legislative act has been developed by us, together with National Deputy Sergey Sobolev, and by those people who need it directly, that is, the people who are now to leave their homes in Lugansk and Donbas. We didn't want to report such legislative acts right now in the Supreme Council, we thought that after the Occupyed Areas Act, which is about Crimea, it would probably be the last law, but unfortunately, we have to go back to this issue again and get our attention to the problems of those people who are waiting for our help with you. This law will regulate norms and mechanisms, and it will complement the rules of that law that you and I have passed on occupied territories. Therefore, the new title of the legislative act is the legal status of persons who are forced to leave their homes as a result of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, and the circumstances associated with the antiterrorist operation in Ukraine. — Registration No. 4998-1. I would ask all of you to consider this issue carefully and to support this legislative act. What standards does this legislative act contain? After the person has left the anti-terrorist area, the Migration Service will issue help and with this help our citizens will be able to receive all the social benefits, all the other necessary benefits that will be provided by the Cabinet of Ministers and receive assistance from the State. We can't leave our citizens behind right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u82	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u83	I'd like you to leave the area of operations of an anti-terror operation. At this point, we have about 35,000 refugees. These people must not be left alone. I would ask you to accept this legislative act as a basis and as a whole, because it is very necessary, the mechanism for regulating it is well known and has many references to the previous legislative act. If necessary, I'm ready to explain under any standard of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u84	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ariev. Is one report enough? Please, Vladimir Igorovich. So just one report or a few words, you're also a co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u85	Dear colleagues! This bill is exactly what all the displaced persons expect of us. We will not talk about the fact that we have refugees in Ukraine today. We don't have refugees because we don't have people from another country, Crimea is Ukraine, and it will always be Ukraine, even if we overcome the temporary problems today. But we have never faced similar problems in our lives. And when we recently received a huge flow of people who were transferred from Crimea and then from Donbas, we found ourselves in a situation where all the life functions associated with the vitality of these people were outside the framework of legislation. These people actually ended up without registration, without any rights. And that's why today, together with my colleagues, we present you with a two-pronged bill that regulates the main issues that relate to the vitality of displaced persons. The work of the committee that took place yesterday was attended by legal representatives from displaced persons who made proposals during the meeting of displaced persons held in mid - May this year. And at this point, this is probably the most optimal text that can be proposed today. As the situation unfolds. During that moment, as we move forward, there will be new problems, we will obviously have to react quickly and make changes to this bill. That's the other thing. That text that was proposed today and supported by the committee, we now need to vote in favour so that people can not only get settled, but get registered, get a job, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, before we discuss the matter, let's give the Deputy Minister of Social Policy Victor Viktorovich Ivankevich one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u87	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry of Social Policy asks you to support this law as a whole, but in article 8, we ask you to add that internally displaced persons have the right to be provided with technical and other means of rehabilitation, to receive rehabilitation services according to the legislation of the actual place of residence (staying) in Ukraine. The provision of technical and other rehabilitation facilities, the provision of rehabilitation services, is made for the availability of necessary documents confirming the right to such services and facilities, and in the absence of data from the central bank on disability issues for persons who are returning, and the individual programme for the rehabilitation of the disabled (children with disabilities) in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask you to support with these amendments the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, can we vote on this issue? May I vote? On the basis of that. Come on, I see Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch raises his hand. I see two hands, I'll give you a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u89	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for drawing attention to the problems of the disabled. And I want to support what the Deputy Minister of Social Policy said. And if we're making decisions today about displaced persons, I mean, in a catastrophic state, there are people in wheelchairs, children with disabilities, difficult options for lying people with disabilities. It's just a scary situation, and I get texted every day, and they call me, and so on. The mayor of Lugansk has just asked: “Get the disabled out of critical territory because there is no way to get them out by rail. ” I have a request. I'm sorry, don't disturb the chairman. Alexander Valentine's Day, if we accept it today, it's only by working with the Ministry of Social Policy and our Committee of Supplements, which deals with people with disabilities, children with disabilities and other low-income groups who are in a difficult state, and there are specific moments of rehabilitation and so on. Request: To add this part of the bill and then to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I see. Let's see, I see three hands, I'll also give you all a chance to speak. Bogdan Benjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u91	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear friends, yesterday we actually had such a little work done on the subject of this law. We realize that this law will still have some adjustments over time, that everything is extremely difficult to calculate. But all that was possible, in principle, is in the law. And the only thing that I think is very important is that this amendment that has just spoken has to be made. And the only technical things that need to be taken into account, in the eighth paragraph of article 1, are simply misspelled words. But I think they're still reading. "Determinable" is written instead of "recognizable" and there are still a couple of fingerprints that need attention. And I would like to address all of us, knowing that the situation in which our citizens of our country are in need of help. Because the Ukrainian must be of use to the Ukrainian, and by the way, at this time of uncertainty, and we realize that the difficult economic things we are experiencing right now are extremely necessary to respond to the souls of all of us. And, Alexander Valentinovich, I think that those amendments that we can accept even from a vote about this law, correct and add and accept as a basis and as a whole, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u92	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Ponomarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u93	Ponomarev, 61st District, Donetsk Region. Of course, the bill is very timely. And, of course, a party of regions will support it. But I have great doubts about its implementation. How can it be said that no pensioner is receiving any social benefits today in the town of Snowy on the tenth day? You understand that in doing so we are increasing the number of people who will be subject to this law in the future. Some speak of the insecurity of the snow town. Yeah, it's a tough situation. But paradoxically, in the city itself, the security of the financial institutions, the safety of the Pension Fund, is no less than in any other city than the Donetsk Region and Ukraine. If anyone has any doubts, I suggest you come with me tomorrow and go to Snow town and see if there's eyes on the ground. There are security issues, but that's another question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u94	Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u95	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Once again, I have to say that we have to work on wheels and adopt very difficult bills. But I want to get back to the government and, first of all, that we have to ensure that this bill is implemented, because there are some very serious things. In particular, it is necessary to inform forced migrants, to provide forced migrants who need constant care and are in a special facility with a social protection system, a suitable place. Childless children are provided with accommodation in children's homes, children of forced migrants to preschool institutions, employment rights, social insurance rights. Despite the fact that the bill states in the explanatory note that this bill does not need additional funds, but, in fact, honors, who do we want to deceive? This bill requires resources, because very often, and we see it now, all responsibility rests with the local authorities today. They are given instructions on how to do things, but they are not able to pay for them. We have several thousand of these families in Kiev today, which we are moving wherever we can. But I ask the government to count the objective resources of this bill as soon as possible. So that we can really make sure that people who move are able to do what we need. Because these people are the best agitator to show that our authority cares about all Ukrainian citizens, no matter where they live in the East or the West. So I propose that this bill be adopted and entrusted to the government very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've run out of time for the performances, but let's give it one minute to our insistent colleagues. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u97	I'm very cramped, dear colleagues. First of all, let's not make these miserable agitators. This is the first moment. I think this bill is aimed not at ideological moments, but at helping these people. But on the other hand, I totally agree with Paul Rosenk, he says the right things, you know? When it's working from the wheel all the time, in the explanatory note section, which is mandatory, where it's about financial and economic justification, it's easier to say, "it doesn't need spending from the State Budget." Well, what do you need? So you're saying, this is education -- it's giving unemployment status, it's paying off accordingly, it's a whole bunch of other things, it needs and it needs to be written about. But, Your Honor Alexander Valentine's Day, I would like to be less than a stopwatcher in order for us to adopt this bill in general, preferably in the context of technical and legal processing, as it happens after the adoption of the bill. After all, I'd like one thing to be done there. There is a serious contradiction in the law itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u98	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u99	I'm on it, yeah. There is a serious contradiction in which a bill that affects these people is not refugees, but they can be called internal migrants. It's about granting unemployment, and in one case, in one article, it's about what the court is going to do, you know? And in the following article, more specifically in the other part of this article, the point is that there is a need to provide appropriate help, an appropriate certificate, without. I don't know which one, let's do some technical legal work. Without this being regulated, these people will not become unemployed, you see, they will be damaged then, but they need to be voted on, perhaps even in general, for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u100	Please. National Deputy Dry, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I am reading a specific amendment that agrees with the government and with the author of the bill, and in that case, for the transcript, Bill 4998, as amended by the amendment to article 8 of the bill, can also be accepted as a whole. So I'm reading, "internally displaced persons have the right to provide technical and other rehabilitation services in accordance with the legislation on actual residence, stay in Ukraine. The provision of technical and other means of rehabilitation, the provision of rehabilitation services is made for the availability of necessary documents that confirm the right to such services and facilities, and in the absence of them, according to the Central Bank, of disability problems for persons who seek re- and individual rehabilitation programmes for the disabled, a disabled child in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In such a case, the bill can be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u102	In general, that's how I know how to vote, isn't it? Please make your final statement, People's Deputy Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u103	Semenyuk, 204 constituency. Deputies, respectable citizens. Indeed, the bill provides for the settlement of the issues of ensuring the realization of the rights of citizens living in a temporary terrorist operation zone or who have moved from it to employment in retirement, education. And I think this bill is very interesting, but there's a lot of comments, and that's why we need to adjust everyone's comments for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, please. My colleagues, well, I see they're still insisting on clarifying this project, so that we can still vote on it as a whole. Please, Valery Mihajlovich Suškević. Let's let Valeriy Mikhailovich go to his town, Sergey Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that we as the authors of the collective have agreed on this bill, including the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. And given the government's proposal, which was read by the deputy minister of social policy, and taking into account the proposal read by Mr. Suhim, I believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading and in general. That amendment that Mr. Zarubinski insisted on, I want to make it clear. If you have documents, you get status if you have documents. If there are no documents, the following article states that you have the right to obtain this status in court. That's what this law defines. Hence, the law is ready for adoption in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u106	Please, Your Honor, give the final address of the Committee on Veterans and Disability of Valeri Suškević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u107	Thank you very much. I agree with the leader of the Fatherland faction, who needs to be accepted both on the basis and in general. The only one. Taking into account the opinion of the Ministry and the Committee of Profiles in the matter of pensioners, veterans and invalids, that part that concerns the disabled, and what Comrade Dry said, by the way, but not all said, a request. To the stenographer. Alexandre Valentinovich, work on this part that deals with the problems of refugees with disabilities, children with disabilities and just disabled people. Just at this time, this part please tell us for the protocol so that we can work with the Ministry. And then you'll have to take it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I understand that there is a willingness to vote throughout the law, taking into account the amendments that the Deputy Minister of Social Policy has said, let's see, we've fixed them up when he announced what the National Deputy Dry said. And in view of the fact that this is still accepted by the people's MP Zarubinsky and the national MP Sobolev, we should definitely do it for the protocol, I say, to carry out the technical and legal drafting of this law, to edit it, so that it comes out irreprehensible. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I have been reminded several times by the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Smaller and International Relations of Valérie Paccan, that it is we who are voting for the recommendation of the committee and the expert board of our administration, Law 4998-1, which is a work in progress. Please, Your Honor, support the entire Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons (worked). This is Law 4998-1. I'm asking you for a basis as a whole. [[17:30:27]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 65, regions – 40, 33 – Impact, Economic Development – 33, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 21 – UK Company, 32 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, the next question continues as if it were the subject. Draft Act amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Please, Sergey Sobolev, the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, we had an actual discussion when we included this bill in the agenda. This bill, in my opinion, is very important, is the marking of those families whose heroes have died or have been disabled as a result of the actions that are taking place today. These are families of individuals who have been killed or who have died as a result of injury, injury, or disability during an antiterrorist operation, protecting Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. It is this article that is being supplemented by this chapter. I have a request to support, and you understand very well who this is, these are the people who are left in their majority without a breadwinner, and these are the people we have to protect. The Ministry of Finance is in agreement with this bill, and they clearly guarantee that the necessary funds will be allocated, and that is actually what we have foreseen in the budget in previous ballots. It is a request to establish it in a legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, there is an offer without discussion. Valeriy Mihajlovich Suškević supports the adoption of this law and asks for one minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u111	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Suskevich, Fatherland faction, head of the committee. Dear colleagues, the point is that we've already supported the anti-terrorist operation with you. But at that time we did not have the status of families, family members, and family members who died or died. And it is this bill that solves the problem of the families of our soldiers who have died during the anti-terrorist operation, protecting the independence and sovereignty of the Ukrainian state. I want to say that it's really about what this bill doesn't need, I'm responsible for what I'm saying, it doesn't need any extra money, because this legislative proposal actually works today. And today, according to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, this is already in fact provided for in Ukrainian legislation. And so, because the committee has not considered that the urgent bill is extremely relevant, but I have taken the liberty of expressing my opinion as chairman of the committee that this is an urgent bill is essentially a social one, so I express my own position that it deserves and can be accepted in the first reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u112	Dear colleagues! So there's a desire in the hall to support this project, so let's do it on the basis and in general, that kind of proposal? Yes. Dear colleagues, I am asking for a bill (4084) amending article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, which refers to members of families of the dead, the dead military. Please, Your Honor, support all this bill, let's ensure the social protection of these families. I ask for the basis and in general, please vote. [[17:34:53]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. By factions, please show me. Let's do it without motive. 64 – "Paternality", region – 6, "Smack" – 35, 34 – "Economic development", 29 – "European Sovereign Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues! The next question is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship on the grounds for the residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine. Please, the Ukrainian National MP will report to Mr. Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u113	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Two years ago, at the request of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we passed a bill that amended the Employment Act and did a good job under which foreign athletes and foreign artists were given the right to work in Ukraine without the agreement of the Employment Centre. Yet, then individual deputies, as well as the expert office, told us that we needed to make changes to the second bill, which is called the legal status of foreigners and non-citizens. We did not listen to them, and we did a very bad job. What happened in the end? These athletes now, they can't work in Ukraine, because without permission from the Employment Centre, they can't go to Ukraine. This bill will solve this problem. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please, head of the Human Rights Committee, Valérie Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, I'll try to fill in the interview. What are we talking about? Now we need to regulate the status of those foreigners who are working with us right now -- football players, those who work in the art field. And we had differences in two other laws. We must now amend two laws by this law. First, it's the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship and the Employment of Population Act. Because, I'll tell you in practice, if a foreigner works for us, he's got a two-month temporary certificate. In order to undershape this certificate, we regulate this status by law and give foreigners the right to work for us. We do. The committee has considered the above-mentioned bill and proposes that it be adopted on a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please make one statement, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u117	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, first of all, I want to remind you of the rules of the Constitution, the duty to know, to speak the national language and to use it in my activities. You're here at work, and so please follow the Constitution and don't brag about the two words you've read here from the Supreme Council. And if you don't know the national language, that means that you lied when you were hired and you pointed out that knowledge of Ukrainian is your virtue, that's the first. And the second is for foreign workers who work temporarily. You know, I've registered a bill more than three years ago, which not only regulates the stay of foreigners here, but also sets the wage for employment and for the use of foreigners in the Ukrainian state. That would fill the budget, and that would protect jobs for Ukrainians. So, honourable MPs, let's worry about Ukrainians and jobs for Ukrainians. And of course, the status of foreigners in our country has to be regulated, there are no questions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, there were no wish to speak, now I see my hands raised. Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Let's give the colleagues one minute. Turn on Mikli Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, I am a supporter of the only approach to the status of foreigners in Ukraine and I respect football players, athletes and musicians. But. Thinking about how comfortable they would feel in Ukraine, we probably had to think about how they were doing legislation, paying taxes in Ukraine. I just read that everyone was so excited that Rinat Ahmethov paid Luchesco so much, in other words. gave up all contracts and will continue to work in Ukraine. And I have a question: if he were to pay at least a third of the sum to the Ukrainian Army for weapons, we would have kept Donetsk and Lugansk, not Lucescu in Ukraine. Therefore, Alexander Valentinovich, not only does he have to give benefits to foreigners who will build up here for three months, but he then tweets to Ukraine in an interview that footballers are afraid to play here, but he has to pay taxes to enforce laws and respect Ukraine. That's why I think we need to get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u120	Postfraction, please, Kaplin, one minute, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u121	Dear Sir, your head! I'm very sorry we didn't discuss the last question. It was not discussed in order to be pious or to pay attention to the details. I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the context of the topic raised in the previous debate, should thank the mothers who sent their sons to protect the integrity of our country in the East. Thank the wives who are waiting for their husbands, sisters who are waiting for their brothers. Thanks to those boys who deserve more than the attention of the Supreme Council during the course of their constitutional duty. And they need to be assured that throughout their next life, Ukrainian national deputies will pay special attention to these heroes, each of them will have the mobile phones of Ukrainian national deputies, and we will take care of these heroes. Thank you on behalf of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine, dear Ukrainian heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us be clear on this matter. Let me remind you, we just had a discussion with you about the Law, the registration number of which is 3874. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship (as regards the grounds for the residence of foreigners and stateless persons in Ukraine). Please, Your Honor, determine this question by voting. The proposal is based. Is that what I'm saying? On the basis and in general? Is there no objection? Based on what? [[B in m in s a l in]] On the ground, please. Colleagues, there's no objection as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u123	I won't. Please, Your Honor, according to the committee's proposal, on the basis and in general. Please decide how to vote. 3874, I recall, registration number. Please vote. [[17:43:40]] For 253 Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 43, 50 – regions, Impact – 34, 32 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 20 – Freedom, 21 – Company, 24 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, the next issue that we can consider is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code (the irreversibility of keeping a child in custody by persons deprived of parental rights). The Zarubinsky People's Deputy is the author of the law. I will remind you that, as promised, we put this law on the fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u124	Yes, I remember yesterday's conversation, thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. And thank you all for supporting this bill. Because he's just an elementaryly humane bill. Its quintession is very simple, and when I prepared it, I made one phrase in the subtext to the name of the Law change to the Family Code. This Law refers to the inevitability of maintaining a child by persons deprived of parental rights, the inevitability of supporting a child. Paragraph 1 of section 2 of article 166 of the Ukrainian Family Code notes today that a person deprived of his parental rights is not exempt from the obligation to support a child. However, the issue of drawing alimony from such individuals is being settled today in arbitrary form. Why? Because the Family Code states: At the same time as the removal of parental rights, the court may, at the request of the plaintiff or on its own initiative, decide on the issue of child alimony. Thus you lose the key sign, the sign of decision - making, the obligation, the inevitability of a biological parent or mother to support your child. Dear colleagues, it also seems that the obligation to assign alimony when deprived of parental rights will partly stimulate a parent to carry out his duties properly, not to the shameful phenomenon that we are witnessing today, often bring forth children, not to raise them, to raise them, to put them on their feet, but to benefit from it — material help. When a person knows that he will be obliged to pay alimony in a policy way, he will likely think more about it when he gives birth. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Dear colleagues, from the committee of the National MP, Zuk Mikola Vasilovich, wants to speak for just one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, I'll tell you why not in general. Because we don't have the right to send the money if the parents refuse to pay the tax to the State Budget, as stated in the bill. So the drafter and I agreed that we would work on the second reading, and it was in article 166 of the Family Code that we would take away the item: perhaps the opening of a child’s accounts. So we specify that we're opening up an account for a child and paying these alimony for it, until it reaches the age of 18, not the return to the state. Our committee supported it. So I ask all MPs to support this important bill in the first reading as a basis for us to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's no need. National MP Rudzkowski insists for 1 minute, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u128	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! I have two children's houses in Priluki, Montenegro. One of them raises children from 0 to 3 years of age. And once a month the parents of their children are brought and handed over to the children’s home, who on the one hand have received compensation from the State and do not want to take care of their children. Sadly, many of these children are taken away by foreigners. It seems to me that the time has come for us to uphold the law proposed by the author and put a dot in this shameful approach. When parents plan a child, they do not want to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u129	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u130	they do not want to be responsible for their upbringing, maintenance, and care. The adoption of this law will help to increase the social responsibility of young mothers and parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Žuravsky insists for 1 minute. Let's listen to him. Please give me 1 minute to the national MP, Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u132	According to article 179 of the Family Code, child alimony is to be used for a purpose. The author sets a peremptory rule for counting alimony directly into the budget. This does not predict their target use for a child. So in the first reading, this bill can be supported, but it can be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, I think that by the second reading there will be a workable option to either the personal accounts of these children to whom the cost will be counted, or another format that will be defined by the author and the committee of profile, preparing the law for the second reading. There's no objection to us voting in the first one right now? Please, Your Honor, support the proposal and adopt a bill (2548) to amend the Family Code (for the irreversibility of keeping the child in custody by persons deprived of parental rights) is the basis. Vote, Your Honor, 2548 registration number. Please vote. [[17:51:02]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following question is inspired to report to the national deputy Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. This is the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for employees of the Secretariat of the National Tripartite Economic and Social Council). Very briefly, please, 2449a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, one minute. Since January 1, 2014, the Act on State Service No.4050 has become effective. There was a need to harmonize his position with the Social Dialogue Act. You know, as everyone knows, the implementation of the Social Dialogue Act is based on the so-called national triangular socio-economic council, which operates on a permanent basis, and is formed by decrees of the President of Ukraine to conduct a social dialogue. By the nature of the responsibilities assigned, it is proposed that the staff of the Secretariat, only the Secretariat of the National Council, be appointed as civil servants. The bill consists of one sentence. It's been developed after the observation of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine does not object to its acceptance as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! You don't have to vote. I see the need to discuss this. is it the complete procedure or the abbreviated procedure? Short cut. Please, National Deputy Rosenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u136	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. Despite that. What's really about adding a fairly small number of civil servants to the category of government officials, but still the principle of our faction's position is that this comparison of different categories of officials to the status of civil servants, unfortunately, has to be stopped. And in all the countries of the world, there are teachers, doctors, internal affairs officials, and we have government officials. And with this increased activity, in our view, we need to do something at all, not extend these categories. That's why our faction, knowing that a small number of officials do have a fundamental position on the inadmissibility of expanding the number of civil servants from government officials in our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u137	I've got the position. Please, National Deputy Sekh, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, we have just received information that more than two dozen of our military personnel have been killed in the region of Slovenia. These are the soldiers of the 24th brigade from Yavorovska. I would like to remind you that a few weeks ago, women, mothers were blocked so that military personnel, who were properly equipped, would not enter the ATO zone. But today we see that we have not yet been able to bury the dead over Lugansk, we already have 20 deaths, more than 20 deaths. I'm getting information that the third district defense battalion, which doesn't have any armor, doesn't have any vests. Just... they also want to send to the East. So, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires tomorrow, with Mr. Koval's Secretary of Defense's report, not just to take place, but to be able to ask clear questions on every particular military area: where the armors, where the helmets, what we're equipped with, why we're hiding our boys every day, why we're getting luggage under number 200 every day. Therefore, we appeal to you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, to ensure tomorrow's Government Day. The first question is the Secretary of Defense and we have a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I support the proposal of the National MP, and tomorrow, on Government Day, all members of the government will certainly be invited, including the acting Defence Minister, to inform Parliament of the tasks we have set before the Ministry and how they are being carried out. I've been told that there's a meeting going on and today there's going to be a meeting to continue with a special commission to check the use of financial resources to secure the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are now considering the Law (register number 2449a). Let's define his acceptance. National Deputy Stoyan, please include one minute and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u140	Dear colleagues! I would agree with Paul Rosenco that it is really necessary to give the status of civil servants to teachers, doctors, because they work in the public service. In fact, many times, many years, this question has been raised by educational and medical professions. But then, dear Paul, you know they also need a pension of 70 to 80 percent of the average wage. If the state is now able to make an additional 50-60 billion, let's make this proposal together, the Economic Development Group will support this proposal and we'll make it a public service for teachers, doctors. And it's about what Suhi's colleague reported, about a dozen people who were already civil servants, and then the law overturned them, they're in the public service, they're in the state service, they're in the middle of a government, employers and trade. And the granting of such a public service, the status is a penny, but it will increase their level as people authorized on behalf of the President, because it is with the President that this service, on behalf of the President, is to do such a mediocre service.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! One minute, Deputy Zharavsky, and we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u142	Dear colleagues! This is specifically about the 12 staff members of the Secretariat of the National Tripartite Economic and Social Council, I emphasize, 12. You don't have to speculate about the status of a civil servant for doctors and teachers. At the time of the election or any other force speculates on it. There are virtually no teachers, doctors, teachers, and doctors in the world who are given the status of civil servants. So let's push away from a specific bill, it's only about 12 people who actually act as civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-19-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, let's be clear on this, I'm asking you to take a risk under discussion. And I'm betting on the committee's proposal to take this project 2449. Let me remind you, this is the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (for employees of the Secretariat of the National Tripartite Economic and Social Council). On the basis and in general, that was the offer. Mr. Suhiy, on the basis and overall, was there an offer? Dear colleagues, let's define by voting as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:59:15]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Fatherhood" – 16, 29 – regions, "BRA" – 1.30 – "Economic development", 18 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 33 – "Freedom" – 0.23 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, 6 p.m. I'll remind you that tomorrow the Supreme Council will continue its work. Today, we are concluding the work of Parliament. Good-bye.
