ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! You and I are about to begin an open session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the form of public hearings to discuss changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. I ask the distinguished national deputies to sit in their seats. I remind you that in addition to the national MPs in our open session, there are also invited leaders of leading political parties, heads of local self-government, scientists, experts, analysts, public figures. Dear colleagues, Ukraine is now experiencing enough dramatic, I would say, tragic days of its history. The unscrupulous and cynical aggression of the Russian Federation continues against our country, whose goal is to destroy Ukraine, to completely destabilize the situation in our country. Not allowing Ukraine to move forward in a European way. We can't let you and me build our country as a powerful democratic European state. But despite all these attempts, you and I continue to move on, change for the better. We continue to democratize Ukraine with you. You and I continue on our way to a common European home. One of the key issues that should be addressed by the Supreme Council, one of the key issues around which there is much talk and debate in our society, is the continuation of constitutional reform. The very changes to the Constitution should provide the foundation for democratic change, the foundation for building a European democratic country where we can develop and build with you all other positive changes. Ladies and gentlemen, we have established a temporary special commission with you to know exactly what changes to the Constitution should be considered. When we made decisions, you and I made a clear vector of these changes. This is the parliamentary-presidential formula of our country's administration. You and I have been discussing for quite some time the principles of reforming our Constitution. One of the main paradigms of this is, of course, the expansion of local self-government. Without that, we can't overcome the consequences of authoritarianism and totalitarianism, without it we can't build strong regions and even a strong country. In addition, a very important issue that concerns all of our citizens is the clear constitutional formula for the construction of an independent judicial branch of power. Clearly, the balance between all branches of government remains important. And take away the possibility of resisting, fighting each other in different branches of power. They must work as in any civilized country, complementing each other. At the same time, Ukrainian society must be able to clearly control all branches of government. Dear colleagues, we have the Prime Minister of Ukraine present, members of the government, who have also worked on the concept of changes to the Constitution. This concept was discussed at a meeting of a temporary special commission. We had quite an active discussion with her. And now, I'm convinced, just taking into account the changes, additions and suggestions made by the people's deputies, we will be able to discuss with you and approach the concept of constitutional changes that will be made in our adoption of the law. I'll remind you that the decision we have to make in two sessions is a very difficult process. But the guarantee of that is the publicity of efficiency. The message of this process is the publicity of its discussion not only within the Supreme Council, it's a discussion of constitutional changes in the regions, it's a discussion among experts in constitutional law. It is important that this issue also be discussed in areas that need to be changed and updated. And it's not in vain today that the representatives of both the Constitutional Court and the judicial branch in general are admitted in our session, because the issue of an honest, impartial court for Ukraine is one of the priorities. Therefore, honourable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished officials, judges, experts, political leaders invited to our open meeting. I ask that our discussion be honest, open, so that we can exchange positions. But the purpose of today's session, I stress this once again, is to come up with an understanding by society of the concept of our constitutional changes, which will form the basis for the adoption of the law by our Parliament. Dear colleagues, I now invite you to the address of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u2	Mr. Golovo, honourable members of Parliament, honourable participants in the opening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Constitution of Ukraine! I would like to begin with why it is now, and why is it essential that Ukraine not only discuss the Constitution, but that all the political forces of Ukraine sign the new text of the new Ukrainian Constitution? This is important for the people of Ukraine to know with what authority the new Ukrainian President will be elected as the election of the President of Ukraine on May 25th, and these elections should take place, they will take place, and in Ukraine will be the legitimately elected head of state. Why is it necessary for all political forces to sign the text of the Constitution? Because we have to demonstrate to the world and, above all, to Ukraine and to the Ukrainian people that there is a unity of all political forces, regardless of their ideology, regardless of the territories that support any political power. But there is unity in the fact that Ukraine is the only unitary state that respects the rights of the territorial communities, which respects the right of every Ukrainian to choose central authority, to control central authority, to choose local authority and to influence local authority in the same way. That is why, honourable participants in the open session, the Government of Ukraine calls on all political forces to sign and agree on the text of the new Constitution of Ukraine by May 25. Such a new edition should be sent for conclusions to the Venice Commission and the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in order to comply with this text in the current Constitution of Ukraine. In these difficult and turbulent times, we urgently need connections for Ukraine. The main objective of amending the Constitution is not the struggle for power, but the distribution of power. That is why Ukraine rose up because power was concentrated in the hands of one person. And the constitutional concentration of power in the hands of one person led to the crimes that this person committed in relation to the people of Ukraine, and then he was the President of Ukraine. That is why we insist that changes be made to the Constitution and that the real balance of power, the balance of power between the President, the balance of power between the government, the Supreme Council and the third branch of power, which is our courts. You and I need to determine what the goal is today before Ukraine. In making changes to the Constitution, we set the goal of overcoming and destroying political and economic corruption. And corruption occurs only when there is a monopoly: a monopoly on power, a monopoly on economics, a monopoly on resources. That is why the decision of all political powers must destroy such a monopoly of power and a new monopoly, a monopoly of the people of Ukraine, should appear on the influence of power and power of their state. I would like to go through the individual chapters, the articles of the Constitution and the general ideology that the government is putting into constitutional reform. Now, in many regions of Ukraine, there's a broad debate about the need to decentralize power, and that's what the Ukrainian government is talking about. The excessive powers of central authority must be abolished and a large part of the political, economic, financial, social and humanitarian authorities must be transferred to the places. What does that mean in practical terms? At a practical level in the position of government, we believe that the Soviet Rudimentary of the State Administration System, which is the heads of district government administrations and the appropriate district government administrations, the heads of district government administrations and the relevant district government administrations, should be eliminated. And the result of this liquidation should be that it is the local communities that must choose the appropriate head of the executive committee in the area and the area. So first. Disposal of district and district government administrations. The other one. Establishment of executive committees in each appropriate area and in each area. Third. Transfer to Executive Committees of State-Governmental Powers on Budget, Finance, Economics, Social and Humanitarian Affairs. As far as central authority is concerned. In connection with the abolition of state administrations, then, we consider it inappropriate to retain the representation of state authorities in the areas. We believe that according to the new Constitution only state representations should be established at the regional level. The state representation should only do one thing: control over the maintenance of legislation in the territory of each relevant community and each administrative and territorial unit. Such State representation should have no financial and economic impact on the development of the regions. The left part of the credentials goes to the respective executive committee of the respective council. As part of this reform in connection with the formation of state representations in the fields, we believe that the second oridium that exists today in the Ukrainian Constitution, which is nothing other than another part of corruption, which is the so-called system of general oversight of the public prosecutor's office, should be cancelled as well. The Prosecutor's Office should meet exclusively European standards and a function of general oversight that does not belong to the Office of the Prosecutor's Office of the European Standard should be repealed accordingly in the new Ukrainian Constitution. Third, with regard to the formation of the political system of the country. According to the current Constitution of Ukraine, there is an element such as the imperative mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy. We believe that the existence of an imperative mandate narrows down the rights and powers of each individual Ukrainian national deputy. Therefore, when changes to the Constitution are made, the element of the imperative mandate, or more specifically the party influence on the Ukrainian national deputy, should also be repealed. Thirdly, with regard to the powers of the President's Institute, I emphasize that the President does not represent any branch of power. The head of the Ukrainian State is a separate institution, which, together with the three branches of power, should balance state power and not allow anyone to monopolize it, without having any chance of a monopoly on power in the country. The President of Ukraine will be deprived of authority to appoint district administrators in connection with the liquidation of district and district government administrations. In doing so, a number of functions of the President, which he has under a valid Constitution, should also be amended, such as: according to the current Constitution, the Head of State has the right to suspend acts of executive power and to submit to the Constitutional Court. We believe that this function should remain with the President, but the President has only the right to submit to the Constitutional Court for the unconstitutionality of an act without stopping the act, as it violates the principle of the balance of power, and this has been stressed by the Venice Commission when the Constitution was adopted in 2004. In particular, I would like to point out the powers the government wants to give to the judicial branch of power. We believe that the Supreme Court of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, must acquire the real status of a higher court. In doing so, the order of appointment of judges and their dismissal from positions should be radically changed. This is about the fact that the first appointment of a judge by the President on the basis of a decree that is carried out in an opaque and corrupt manner should also be cancelled. The President must be deprived of influence over the judicial branch of power. The judicial branch of authority should be solely accountable to the Supreme Council of Justice as an independent body formed on the basis of constitutional principles and constitutional principles. Similarly, the High Council of Justice should make an appointment for the judge. We believe that the President may have the right to sign a decree regarding the appointment of a judge, but solely on the basis of the submission of the High Council of Justice with a term of office. If the President has not signed a corresponding decree on the appointment of a judge within 10 days, the Supreme Council of Justice’s decision to appoint such a judge becomes effective without the President’s signature. This is a significant and significant part of the constitutional changes that should be made in this House. The President's mandate to appoint, and more specifically to apply for the appointment of two ministers, needs to be regulated separately. This is the Secretary of Defense and Minister of Foreign Affairs. We believe that this violates the principle of unity of power. This is about the fact that the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is formed by the Parliamentary Coalition on the basis of the submission of the Prime Minister. This means that, after the two basic functions that the President of Ukraine has and should remain, this is the function of national defence and the function of foreign policy, the President can, together with the government, run for the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, namely, through the mechanism where the Prime Minister, on the basis of appropriate consultations with the coalition, submits this motion to Parliament in agreement with the President of Ukraine. In particular, I would like to focus on the economic and social aspects of constitutional reform. One is to transfer authority and another is to transfer resources to carry out these government powers. That is why, in parallel with the process of amending and supplementing the Constitution, we have to make changes and adopt a new version of the two acts. The basic act is the Budget Code. The arrangements for the allocation of inter-budget transfers, the procedure for the accounting and accounting of public and local taxes to the relevant local community should be immediately followed by a new edition of the Ukrainian Budget Code. This will allow, in addition to the political component that will be reflected in the Ukrainian Constitution, to fill local self-government and territorial communities with adequate economic and financial resources on a fair and transparent basis. As far as the Tax Code is concerned. It is also our joint task to adopt a new version of the Tax Code, which must be implemented at least in 2015 in order for a simplified tax system to be introduced in Ukraine since 2016: a reduction in the number of basic taxes to eight with an extension of basic taxation. This will allow, on the one hand, to simplify tax administration, on the other hand, to overcome tax corruption and enable entrepreneurs to work in transparent and understandable mechanisms. And the simpler the tax system, the more effective the tax collection, the less the possibilities and the chances of circumventing this tax legislation. In the context of constitutional reform, we propose to regulate a number of more fairly systemic things that relate to the ratio of central and local authorities to the balance of power between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities that relate to the President's activities. But now, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine, there is a moment of truth and a moment of responsibility to the Ukrainian people. The Constitution is a basic document of how the country will live. The Constitution is the passport of a state in which every citizen of Ukraine must be registered, who knows and feels that it affects power. The Constitution, which should be adopted by Parliament, should correspond to the basic article of the current Constitution, this is article 5, where the authorities belong to the people of Ukraine. That is why the government is turning to all political powers. There's practically no time. Presidential elections are scheduled for May 25. By May 25, the country needs to see a new version of the Constitution. By May 25, every candidate in the Presidents has to say that this is the right constitution, and that's how I'm going to do it, and that's how I'm going to be called Head of State. By May 25, all political forces must find consensus by the constitutional majority, demonstrate unity and vote in favour of this constitution in the Ukrainian Parliament. And we need to draw the conclusion of the Venice Commission to comply with this Constitution with European standards. Someone might say that the Constitution is a very distant document. And our lives are governed by orders, acts, regulations. That's not true. The truth is that everything in the country should go away solely from the basic, basic, and key document. The Ukrainian Constitution should become a document of national unity. The unity that is essential to the country right now. That unity is the only guarantee for the preservation of the Ukrainian state. The unity Ukraine must create as a European state and preserve it as a territorially independent European and a state in which every Ukrainian has its legal place. I call on all parliamentary forces to make decisions, to agree by consensus, and on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I can say that our task, namely, the task of decentralization of power, the transfer of authority to places, will be implemented because this is a requirement of the Ukrainian people, this is a time requirement, and this is a political reform that will make Ukraine a European state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u3	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, we have scheduled 53 national deputies and those invited for today’s session. I ask you to sit down, dear fellows. Honorary colleagues, the secretariat, have come up with proposals for factions, national deputies, and so forth. It'll be possible, I'll give a speech to those who will at the end raise their hand or take a note to the fore. Now. Dear colleagues, calm down. I am now asking for the parliamentary seat of the Head of the Special Temporary Commission, which includes the preparation of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u4	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audiences! First of all, let me thank you, Mr. Head, personally and the Conciliation Council in particular, to the leaders of all factions for taking an extremely important step today in the Parliamentary Hall. I think that the uniqueness of the situation is that today, actually in the session room, there are representatives of the public, experts, representatives of local self-government, rural, rural, urban heads, judges of different kinds of courts, Constitutional Court judges, representatives of other state bodies. I think that this kind of action, and this is an attempt to sit next to each other and listen to each other, will allow us to find the consensus that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has just spoken about. Of course, I must tell you that the process of amending the Constitution of Ukraine is always a complex process. I'd even say it's an extremely complex process, especially in these conditions that we're in right now. And the fact that the Supreme Council on March 4th, think about it, literally a few days after it was adopted, as I see it, the decision-making decision in the form of the Act on the Renewal of the Constitution with the Amendments of 2004, 2011 and 2013 decided to continue the process of amending the Constitution. What we are now going back to this kind of process is a major disaster for Ukraine, because these changes and this process were to be completed 10 years ago. If you remember, then the so-called political reform, it had two main blocks. One of them was really about moving to the parliamentary-presidential model of governance at the central level of power and balancing that power. And the second stage was dedicated to what we now call decentralization or the real empowerment of the inhabitants of the territorial communities, their right to actually participate in local self-government. What's more, if you remember, it was in the 2004 Transitions that predicted that they would become effective once they became part of the Constitution that the other changes were made. Unfortunately, it has not happened as it was supposed to, and so far we have to talk about these changes as a project. Various circumstances have affected this. Although everyone has made a loud statement, including the political forces, the presidential candidates, the presidents have already made it clear that they intend to move on this very path of amending the Constitution. While in practice, we recall that there was a notorious decision in 2010 by the Constitutional Court, which actually brought everything back. And instead of going the way of further democratization of the political system, we went back to its concentration in one hand. At the same time, what Parliament has decided today to continue moving towards the continuation of constitutional changes is a great benefit and should be able to appreciate it. Unfortunately, not everyone has yet fully understood the specificity of this process. We see and understand the criticism that is heard at our address, realize that it must be objective and must have its basis. But we would like to point out that, in any case, we need to take into account some of the working conditions of the Supreme Council and the temporary special commission created by it to amend the Constitution. First of all, I want to tell you that this is not a constitutional commission that once adopted the Constitution. Then it was a completely different form of work of the Constitutional Commission with a completely different representation, with a completely different composition, according to the composition of this commission, it was involved with representatives of various branches of authority, it was headed accordingly by the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, and accordingly had a much broader mandate than those of the Temporary Special Commission. It's just a temporary special committee of the Supreme Council, nothing more and nothing more can come up with in its work than to be governed by the Rules, where appropriate working conditions or such a TSC are provided. Moreover, given that this is a parliamentary, exclusively TSC, it is composed of exclusively representatives of the political forces represented in Parliament. And so this is essentially a little reflection of the mood in Parliament around how they would see the need to make changes to the Constitution. That is what made it necessary for Parliament to review its approach to how the commission should make appropriate changes. If a decree of March 4 was issued to such a commission, by April 15 a certain bill would have been put into the session hall and further discussed by all the political forces, we had already reached the session hall on April 8, and the session hall had supported us, continued the commission's work and prepared such a bill by May 15, 2014. This was made entirely out of objective realities, since at the time when we were about to prepare an appropriate bill before us we continued to come up with proposals from various subjects of the legislative initiative, primarily those of the national deputies who are representatives of the political forces in the temporary special commission. We set up another deadline for such proposals to come to the commission, and the deadline was April 15th. But life indicated that this date was not final, and the changes continued to come, in fact the last of them came only last week, and on Friday we were able to send all the members of the committee to work. Yesterday, we literally assembled a commission and were able to generalize these changes accordingly. At the same time, the commission did not expect only the proposals to come, and certain things could be done during the period of time taken. First of all, I believe that a great achievement is the conceptual vision of all the members of the commission on what might be the extent to which changes to the Constitution can be made at this political stage. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can finish because I have information about the commission's work. About the commission's work. I'm reporting on the work of the commission as defined by the regulations of work. That's about what the commission agreed on. The Commission agreed that the changes to be made by the commission could not apply to chapters 1 and 3 of the Constitution. This is an important decision because you know that if such changes were to be prepared, in accordance with the Constitution, they must be signed by at least 300 deputies, and if they are adopted, they must be confirmed by an all-U.S. referendum. Moreover, given the standard of article 143, part 5, of the Supreme Council’s Rules, such a bill cannot at the same time amend other chapters of the Constitution of Ukraine. So we made a decision, I think it's a decisive fundamental decision that these chapters will not apply to the commission in their work. The second decision, which has also been taken and around which is the principle of consent of all members of the temporary special commission. In what part should we make adjustments, and we can make them? This is about the first block -- the so-called power balance block at the central level for improving the parliamentary and presidential form of government. The second block is a block of so-called decentralization or real powers of local self-government. And the third block is the reform of the judicial system. As for the suggestions you're telling me you've come up with. In the work of the commission, there were 986 suggestions on how to change the Constitution. If you want me to evaluate every offer, it takes at least a few months. And the commission is now looking for a format of work that will really help us to work effectively on these proposals. But there is a great benefit in the proposals that have come. First of all, I have to tell you that the vast majority of these are the three major blocks involved in making changes to the Constitution. This means that in the near future, I hope that we will have the opportunity and opportunity to work on the basis of a bill that will take into account all those proposals that do not generate a variety of interpretations and that the main negative perception in the environment of members of a temporary special commission. All those issues that are now controversial, and for which we cannot clearly agree immediately on a temporary special commission, will be brought up as parentheses of this project and we are specifically on each of these proposals starting after we have done it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u5	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u6	and try to find a suitable solution within the temporary special committee. Although if we don't find such answers to all the questions, and I think there are obviously certain things that the commission cannot do within its own format, we will take them to the session room and we will ask the leaders of the political forces and the appropriate session room to be determined on a case-by-case basis. And that's a proposal that will get the right number of votes and sleigh in part of the body of the Constitution. In a different format, we can't work in a different way, because there are a lot of suggestions that some political forces insist on and that are not perceived by other political forces. Our goal, the ultimate goal, is to try to find a subtle, fragile compromise that can unite all the political forces in Parliament and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u7	Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u8	And to find a positive outcome in making the appropriate positive decision in the form of at least 300 votes from members of the session room when final changes were made to the Constitution. This process is complex, this process is uncomplicated, but today’s meeting we hope should help us in this work. We think that after today's meeting, we will have at least a consensus conceptual vision of the Constitution, which will guide the work of the commission. We will continue to try it on the basis of proposals that have come to fill in concrete content, so that in the immediate future, by putting into place the terms defined by the Supreme Council, we have worked out a bill that can reflect all political visions and the need to make changes to the Constitution at this stage of the country's development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u9	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. It's a small trailer. Our task is more complex and responsible: not just to unite the political forces in Parliament, but to unite the Ukrainian society is our main goal and we must certainly work on it. Dear participants in the opening meeting of the Supreme Council! We've got a lot going on. As for the regulation, offer: 3 minutes for the performance. And the huge problem, my fellow Members, for all of us not to exaggerate the rules in relation to this, I stress again, we need to listen not only to the national MPs, but we need to hear our guests, especially the representatives of the regional government, the local self-government, we need to hear experts, experts who are familiar with constitutional issues and proposals that are very important. We've invited representatives from different regions, and most of all, we'd like to hear the position of different regions here in the Parliamentary Hall. That's why I want to keep them informed, so I didn't come out of the parliamentary rostrum. A sound will be given within half a minute of the end of your performance. This is the orientation for you, which is very little time left to finish your speech. Dear colleagues, in turn, I beg of you. One minute! The next suggestion is that we listen to political factions and parliamentary groups right now. It will certainly be up to them to vote on the Constitution. And then we'd do that: we'd do the guests, we'd do the invitations, and we'd do the vice-presidents of the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there are too many suggestions to make. So for five minutes, we're only going to have half the speakers. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, who is responsible for the duties of the head of the deputy faction "Fatherschina" Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished ones! This is already in my memory the Third Temporary Constitutional Commission. I remember well how the first text of the Constitution of Independent Ukraine, which was approved in those turbulent times, was done. And I think, unfortunately, the key issues that we are discussing today remain those issues that we will never be able to move forward. What kind of questions is that? I think the key thing I'd like to talk about right now is local self-government. Because somehow there's a constant substitution of the notion that we're trying to expand someone's authority, to decentralize them, or at least to announce it without understanding the key concepts. And I think without the key, "Yes, and for whom do we extend the powers of the local communities?" – can answer only from the key question: "What does the local community represent?".. Is this the territory of the area? Hardly. Is this the area of the area? Hardly. 100 percent of our citizens live in settlements. It's a city, a village, a village. And in my opinion, as long as we don't take the basis for this very thesis, on any extension of powers, on increasing these powers, on budgetary autonomy, on the possibility of filling the budget, we will only be speaking out of some city's patriotism, forgetting that the key tax and congregation formation, the key costs, the key life support is happening at the level of the city, the village, the village. I think this should be the basis for the changes envisaged in the broad changes in the decentralization of governance in the state. Because if decentralization is understood under the broad powers of the regions, the question is, how exactly do budgets, district and district budgets form?".. If we continue to predict that this formation will not take place at the expense of the city, the village and the village, not by the execution of the key programs, I think nothing will change and we will continue and in the new text of the Constitution we will remain in the ghosts that will not allow us to develop. That's the key point of change to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u11	Thank you for your time. From the faction of the Party of the Regions is Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Please prepare National Deputy Karpuntsov for Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u12	Dear friends, I'd like to start a little bit with another. Yesterday's tragic, cruel, senseless attempt on the mayor of Harkovsky must have put us in a different position. And it is important for us today to answer all these questions in order to understand which country we live in. What happened yesterday is a demonstration of the power of people who want everyone to be in a state of fear. This is a demonstration of impunity, which unfortunately has hampered the whole country today. We thank the harrkian doctors who saved lives yesterday for the measure that was responsible for the vitality and responsibility of the life of a city of one and a half million. As no one knows the value of this man, who in a few years made Harkov a flowering city with a great prospect. His motto of "love and work for the people" is repeatedly confirmed by them. Today, it is very important that politicians stop discussing who likes the political position, who doesn't like it, who doesn't like it, who doesn't like it. Let us be responsible for the results of our work. And we wish Gennadia Kernes an early recovery so that he can continue to work on Kharkiv, love the city and work for the people. Regarding the Constitution and the proposals of the Party of the Regions. We believe that it is essential to bring this issue to an end and right now. We believe that the question of decentralization today may be at the top of the agenda. I want to point out that I have listened very carefully to the speech of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and I want to say that we have a common position on many issues. But as they say, the devil, he's on small issues, and we all know that. A party of regions insists that it is in the Constitution that the issue of Russian as the second national language be resolved. We think that the question of decentralization of power is at many points. We propose to introduce direct elections to the district manager by open voting. We suggest that the executive authority be delegated to the executioners, who will be formed at the district and district level. We propose to create prefectures that will exercise control on behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the policy of the Cabinet of Ministers. We insist on regional budgetary autonomy. We're talking about that it's at the constitutional level that we can fight corruption by simplifying the President's impeachment procedure and establishing that impeachment will also be for corruption and for the President, including. And here, in the session room, without any delay, we're going to make that decision. If you don't mind, 20 more seconds. The balance between all branches of government needs to be finally made. We need to put an end to it once and for all when we have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u13	Give me half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u14	for years, unfortunately, we've been arguing about who owns this country. That's not supposed to happen. People should not appoint the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, as people who have any rights to this country. We all have to work for this country. Equally important is the question of how to settle election deadlines at all levels. And we want to have a broad dialogue here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u15	Thank you. Valery Volodymyrovich, thank you. Because we will not just have other guests of today’s meeting. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of Karpuntsov Vitalia, Valery Vitaliovich, from the political faction of "AWOL". Please. And the next one is Simonenko, get ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! Speaking of the idea of change to the Basic Law of the State proposed by the Impact Party, it has to be noted that it was based on the idea of the need to redistribute power in order to avoid its concentration in a single centre of influence. And this applies to both the "Parliament-President-Government" triangle and the decentralization of power in order to expand the powers of local representative authorities. On the latter, special attention is needed. In the information space, destructive forces inside and outside Ukraine are consciously trying to replace the concept of decentralization of central government and resources, the expansion of the rights of administrators, their representative bodies, the increase in the share of taxes remaining in the local budgets, and so on, the federalization, which is totally foreign to the traditions of state-building in Ukraine. In preparing the changes, we deliberately did not interfere with chapter III of the Constitution, which regulates the rights and freedoms and duties of man and citizen. Its extent of rights is more than sufficient to guarantee human natural positive rights, and any other rights and freedoms are essentially derived. At the same time, as today’s realities show, the main problem is not enough of the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Basic Law, but of the ability to implement them, which ultimately depends on the proper functioning of public and local electoral bodies, as well as on the availability of independent courts in the country. That's why the idea of change, proposed by the U.S. Council, the President of Ukraine, the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the round of powers of these organs and their content, as well as questions of the judiciary with a view to guaranteeing constitutional independence of the judiciary from the legislature and the executive and head of state. We also want to emphasize the complexity of all these changes. First of all, with the changes to the Constitution, we propose to depoliticize the procedure of appointment of both national and local elections, giving these functions entirely to the Central Election Commission. With a view to completing the transition to the parliamentary and presidential model, our proposed changes envision an expansion of the content and scope of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We propose that the work of the Supreme Council be established at constitutional level, namely, the presence of 226 people's deputies. We propose the introduction of the concept of constitutional law. These are laws that are fundamental in the State and must be adopted by three fifths of their composition. We're proposing a new format of government appointment along with a full team and a program of government activity right at the time of the appointment. Of course, we also offer systemic changes in the judiciary. We propose a change in the functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. We propose, of course, changes in the administrative and territorial reform of our state, we propose to restrict the authority of the locals at constitutional level.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u17	Give me half a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u18	By focusing mainly on coordinating the activities of the territorial authorities, central authorities, and overseeing and monitoring the legality of decisions made by local authorities and officials. Instead, it is envisaged that the executive body of the local councils is given separate powers by law to the executive authorities, which they implement within the limits of the public budget allocated to them. In order to exercise such powers, the State hands over not only the rights and duties of local governments but also the costs and public property to local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Communist Party’s faction Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, first of all, to our deep conviction, should be changed from the issues that today are causing severe opposition in society and threatening dangerous consequences. The Company's proposals are presented in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine of February 1st this year. And you have the opportunity to learn more about the company's supply package. I'm only going to teach specifics at the time that's set for the performances. First of all, we support numerous proposals to move to the federal system of Ukraine. Our strong belief is that this will address many of the thorny issues that divide our society and allow real content to be filled with regional and local self-government. Federalization will not only weaken the center’s dictatorship but, above all, help to raise the responsibility of local and regional authorities for the development of regions and respective territories. The abolition of the office of the President and of State administrations in the areas and areas, the transfer of their functions to the executive committees of the relevant councils, will remove the two-Power, will be an important step in the democratization of the country's political system, the implementation of constitutional provisions on the exercise of sovereignty and the sole source of power by the Ukrainian people. It is also vital that the transformation of regions into full - fledged entities of the Federation can serve as a basis for solving the very difficult problem of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. It is clear that the federalization of the country will make it necessary to turn Parliament into a bicameral. The National Deputies of the House of Representatives should be elected, in our opinion, by a proportional system, and the members of the Council of the Regions should be elected by a majority system. There must be a requirement of millions of our citizens to establish the Russian language status as a national language in the Constitution. Ukraine is a permanently neutral state that does not belong to any military-political blocs and adheres to well-known non-nuclear principles. And this rule should be reflected in the new text of the Constitution. In the Constitution, citizens in Ukraine should also be referred to as citizens. Not that Ukrainian citizens have such rights and freedoms, because today's recorded man has the right. And if you don't have any money, you've got nothing. And it should be noted that the State guarantees these rights and clearly sets out the content of the guarantees. Of course, it is also important that we today have a discussion. We consider it appropriate to leave the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in charge of the enforcement of laws relating to citizens' rights and freedoms. Each year more than a million Ukrainian citizens turn to these authorities for answers about how to protect their rights. We also believe that the Constitution should strengthen the fact that judges are elected as grassroots for 5 years directly to the population of the cities or districts concerned, providing for the possibility of recalling those judges who have not justified trust. And the last. We believe that in an environment of acute opposition in a country where war is taking place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u22	When there is a war against its own people, in which soldiers, tanks, planes and helicopters are involved, people are killed when some candidates for Presidential office succumb to moral and physical terror, there is no reason to expect that the presidential election will take place under the conditions of free will of the electorate. Therefore, elections need to be postponed and carried out after the situation has been resolved and changes made to the Constitution. The Head of State must be chosen under clearly defined constitutional powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u23	The word is given to the head of the "Freedom" faction of Dragniboek Oleg Jaroslavovich. Please get ready for Olessa Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u24	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We are discussing, society, an extremely important thing, the basic law of our state and the Constitution of the new Ukraine are needed. But today the Ukrainian people from the Ukrainian Parliament, from the Ukrainian authorities, need to hear another when they are finally finished, declared an anti-terror operation? Regrettably, this antiterrorist operation actually caused only a further surge of terrorism in some regions of Ukraine. And that's why we need to immediately convene an additional session of Parliament, get the muscle back here and listen to what's going on. Why is kidnapping still taking place? Why are they giving up Alphas and getting captured? Why don't you let them out? Why is it that today, in this territory of Donetsk, Lugansk region, ethnic cleansing has actually begun, people are disappearing? Perhaps we should first learn to implement the existing Constitution and then consider some updates. And so, society, these are the evil issues that are essential today, Parliament has to work, it has to adopt the Book of Illustration Act, because without illustration there will be no Constitution, there will be no new order in the Ukrainian State. But anyway, if we're talking about the Constitution, we don't have to go too fast. Do you really think that the adoption or even discussion of this Constitution will stop separatists and terrorists, in no way will this happen? And so Freedom has a clear vision and has proposed its draft Constitution, which proposes to discuss and approve publicly. And we think that our draft Constitution, our vision of how to change the power system in Ukraine, is much more effective. First of all, Ukraine must be a unitary state, no federations, and no autonomy. [[Applause]] The other one. As for the form of government, here we have to completely reject any effort we have here to impose on us the parliamentary republic of the state, exclusively the parliamentary republic. Yes, the decentralization of power is going to happen because it's the power and the Janukovitch regime that has centralized power, and by the way, those who have served that regime are now the ones who are currently the most screaming about decentralization. But the responsibilities need to be shared, and first of all we need to share in the fiscal allocations, so the budget has to be drawn down to the mountain, and this has to be fixed. But the Presidential authorities must likewise be strong and strong, there must be a new elected parliament, a legislative body, which should be reduced from 450 to 300. The Law on Deputy Intactness, Judicial and Presidential should be adopted. And most importantly, the people have the right not only to choose power, but a transparent and simple procedure, which should be enshrined in the Constitution, to recall this authority, the people must become truly the only source of power in Ukraine as it is enshrined in our present Constitution and should be enshrined in another Constitution. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Parliamentary Tribune is invited by Dony Alexander Sergiyyovich of the "Supreme European Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen! The day before we started discussing the Constitution, I called one of Victor Musiaci's famous experts in the Constitution and asked if he was ready to come forward and discuss the changes to the Constitution? He said no, no way. I'm saying, how come? He said he was willing to come only for one purpose to prove that there was no need to change the Constitution, sometimes it was a medical principle — no harm. When we do not want to comply with the laws and the Constitution, we try to make changes. The MPs don't want to vote on their own, which is, excuse me, article 84, buttons. They decide to make changes to the Constitution. The MPs don't want to be disfellowshipped, we now have nine people in both the state office and the deputies, this is articles 78 and 79. So, what do you need? 81st. So we need to change the Constitution, right? Instead, what did they offer us? I say that Arsenija Yatzenyuka’s talk will lead to the elimination of statehood without any softening or soft words. The elimination of aggression by the Russian authorities means giving up half the country. You've already betrayed Crimea, how much more do you want? Now there was this situation in Crimea, there was no district government, there was a Kabmin, actually an execution. Now you're proposing in the Donetsk region to eliminate the state administration. Yesterday Russian fascists beat up Ukrainian flags, now there will be no district government, there will be no county administration in Kharkiv, there will be no Herson. How many areas do you want? I am now addressing the ministers, the ministers of Midian. What do you not dare to say to your prime minister that it is a·neiʹa to eliminate the district authorities from the conflict with Russia, where your courage is? Are you a ranger or who are you? Where are your tongues and where have you hidden them? Disposal of regional governments in conflict situations means giving up half the countries. We need to put the authority in place. The places are a village, a town, a city, and that's where we have to transfer budgets and authorize the territorial formations that are the areas, and we need to connect in Ukraine, that's what we need to understand. And it's no wonder that the Party of Regions and the Company have aligned themselves with this disgraceful position of Arsenius Yatsenuk. If he does not change his position, he must resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u27	Please welcome Filipenko Volodymyr Philipovich from the MP's Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Economic Development Group, Vladimir Filipenko, Poltavščina. Honorary colleagues in Ukraine, joining the Council of Europe, committed themselves to fulfilling a number of special obligations contained in the special conclusion of Parliament’s Assembly No. 190. And for almost 19 years, Ukraine has fulfilled a large part of the commitments that come from its membership in the Council of Europe. However, a number of commitments remain unfulfilled, as the Parliamentary Assembly has repeatedly called on its many resolutions to cooperate with the Council of Europe in this regard, including the conclusions of the Venice Commission in the process of amending the Constitution. For almost 19 years, the Ukrainian side had asked the Venice Commission to evaluate constitutional issues 18 times. In particular, the 10 conclusions of the Venice Commission directly related to the analysis of draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine. Some of these bills received a favorable assessment of the commission, but a large part did not. Recognized that it does not meet European standards and requires further work. What do we have today? In fact, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has done much to return to the Constitution in an editorial form that has been amended since 2006 (2222). The bill has also been studied by experts from the Venice Commission, and it has also been identified by experts as imperfect and contains many gaps, which in principle the Ukrainians have experienced since 2006. Moreover, individual changes in 2004 were subject to criticism by European experts. What was the point of criticism? Let me give you just a few examples. First of all, it is a provision that national MPs should not bind individual deputies to their membership in the parliamentary faction or bloc, as this violates the free and independent mandate of the national deputy given to them by the electorate, as the Prime Minister has said today. These are the principles governing the relationship between the President, the Supreme Council and the Government, and this is also the role and competence of the Attorney General to be reviewed; the role of the Human Rights Commissioner – it must be strengthened. We're also on behalf of the group, and I want to say that we fully support all the work that the Venice Commission has recommended to Ukraine. We also believe that it is necessary to work directly in three directions: decentralisation of power, the balance of power between the President, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the strengthening of guarantees of the independence of the judiciary. But we should not forget other issues, especially those that concern voters, but unfortunately, they are not discussed in the Supreme Council. This is the same quantity of membership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these are the same questions about the status of the national deputy and the benefits. All of this must be discussed on a temporary special committee, and we must give Parliament a consolidated project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u30	which was approved not by 300 votes, but by 400 or 450 votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come to the Parliamentary Chamber of Golenka Valery Mikolaiovich, head of the Luhansk District Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u32	Respected colleagues, a key principle and at the same time a strategic task to be addressed by changes to the Constitution of Ukraine is the maximum decentralization of power, authority and budgetary resources. This is the same method, which is very important today, for overcoming today's sharper conflict. It is important that the idea of expanding the authority of local government unites Ukraine, and I have repeatedly seen this through meetings with colleagues. The leaders of the local councils and the East and the West insist on expanding the range of powers to the extent that will enable them to become effective authorities, not just the decorations that are taking place today. So let us implement this idea, especially since it is the decentralization of power and financial resources that is now being pursued by hundreds of thousands of citizens of eastern Ukraine who are participating in mass protests. Let us stop being afraid to take a decisive step. After all, we can meet two challenges: calm the protesters and move on to democracy. I fully agree with the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine to include the right of regional and district councils to form their own executive bodies. Regional administrations or offices, whatever we call them, remain solely responsible for the supervision and monitoring of the rights of citizens. But I'm sure there's no need at the administration level. By leaving Rajgosadministration, we leave the basis for a conflict of authority between them and the District Councils, which is always held hostage by the community. The State executive authority at the regional level is sufficient to carry out monitoring functions in the cities and areas of the region. Finally, another fundamental point. It is very important that the substance of the reform of local self-government and the administrative and territorial apparatus be understood and accepted by the people. Remember what happened to Roman Immortal's projects? The society categorically rejected them because the proposed scheme did not take into account the realities and needs of the people. The idea of uniting two or three areas into one is being discussed again. I'm sure it's a big mistake. People know clearly that there's a centre, there's a district hospital, there's a district D.C. and there's a whole social infrastructure. And if we start to unite, to scale up, that's, on condition, out of three hospitals, there's going to be only one, and everything else is going to fall. And that's how it's gonna be. It is important to preserve the areas within today's borders as a basic structural unit. Authorities may be established in the community as the primary body of local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u33	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u34	With regard to the changes that our Basic Law will make better, democratic and modern, I cannot help but say one more thing about the need at the highest legislative level to establish the state status of the Russian language of the country for tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens. This step will be a real convincing demonstration of Kiev's respect and appreciation for the millions of Russian-speaking citizens. It's mutual respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u35	Thank you. Thanks for the show. Dear colleagues, I invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government of Zvani David Važajevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I have prepared a long statement, but after the Prime Minister's statement, after the other members have spoken, I will probably not read it. I want to express very briefly my opinion, the opinion of the Committee and the structures with which we work hard. Today, when something starts to go wrong, it's going to swim wrong. The establishment of a commission within the framework of the Supreme Council is already in violation, because there is no draft prepared in the Supreme Council Hall that the Commission could consider. There are only two possibilities for the Commission to consider: either the President introduces a draft Constitution, or 150 people's deputies after the Constitutional Court examines this option. There is neither one nor the other today in the Supreme Council Hall. We've set up a commission and we're essentially looking at nothing. And I'm having a discussion on that. I would like to make a small amendment to Arsenia Petrovich that we have the 2004 Constitution, not the government-presidential form of government, but the parliamentary-president. Therefore, the Government cannot initiate the introduction of the Constitution into the House of Parliament. When we break the principles, we will not be able to go any further, to the appropriate quality of this discussion, the quality of the decisions taken will not be what the Ukrainian people expect. The fact that reform is ripe also underscores our international partners that the constitutional process should be extended and continued. It is a very complex, serious project, on which the well-being of the country depends for many years. And we are in a very critical situation. Therefore, to accept the Constitution of Fear, I do not think it is appropriate. We must accept the Constitution of reconciliation, both for the future and for development. That is why it must be adopted, first of all, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. Secondly, at a time when we will calm down what is happening in the country today, when the system of power is already in place when all institutions earn money. After that, I think that neither the President nor Parliament will refuse to take an active part in bringing the Constitution into normal form for the fourth year. It is meant for when there should be a balance between the presidential vertical of power and the parliamentary one. I want to emphasize again. When we begin the debate four weeks before the presidential elections on powers, that is the introduction, the misleading of the electorate. I wish to make it clear that the President, who will be elected by 25, will be elected with the powers enshrined in the Fourth Year Constitution, in which there is a State today. And there are no other possibilities. The constitutional process and the debate on the Constitution will then begin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers should go to work. I would ask Arsenija Petrovich, in view of the position mentioned here, to make some comments before the government goes to its office in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! First of all, we would like to thank you for listening to the Ukrainian government's position on decentralization of power. The second thing I would like to point out is that it's very sad when there are actually speeches in the Parliamentary Chamber about how to draw the Constitution under the new President. That's how Yanukovich painted! There's no Yanukovich. That is why the task before Ukraine today is to have the Constitution, not under the new President, but under the Ukrainian people. That is why the country must go through the process of decentralizing and reducing the powers of central authority and transferring it to places. That's why not Kiev should appoint the head of the district and district state administration, who was first appointed for bribes, but secondly, who cares about how to save himself in power, not how to work for the respective local community. That's why we have to give people extra weight to our community, to our city, to our district, to our area. That's why we need to finally realize that in a structure where the President is the only person that affects everything, there's one of the most wrong things -- then he becomes not the President, but the criminal. And that's why we don't have to tear votes and throats for presidential candidates. So let us tear our throats for the people of Ukraine and think about what the national constitution will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u39	Thank you. I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration, Baranov Valeriyovich. Please. Prepare Stavnichuk Marina Ivanovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u40	Good afternoon, dear friends! Today, more than ever, Ukraine needs effective power. It is a pity that we have been engaged in populism for 20 years and have destroyed the country. Today we have one last chance, that's my deep conviction. However, I am sure that the constitutional process cannot be placed at party auctions. When the Constitution wishes to be written by party leaders instead of being written by professional lawyers, by practices based on the best experience in the world, and by fundamental scientific principles aimed at democratic development of society and the economy. We have an obligation to eliminate regional and district administrations. This is opposed today by those who have never worked in local self-government and who do not understand what is happening there. About management. The perfect two-bell control system: you take one end of the stick in your hand and you know exactly where the other one goes. It's worse to run a chain, it's much harder. Our governance system today is therefore sixfold: the President, the Government, the ministries, the administration, the Raja administration, the village head, the community -- that is, the system is completely out of control. We need to address this problem first today. We don't just have to scare people into joining villages today, and that's what they're talking about. We need to talk about the disintegration of areas. We now have areas where 8,000 people live, where 3,000 live, where 20,000 live. We have 68 per cent of villages in Zaporozhye County, with fewer than 500 inhabitants. How can these people be managed? The election of local councils should take place only in the majority system. Party demagogies and corporate interests have destroyed our country. The ban on voter bribery through withdrawal from registration should clear the ballast and lobbyist advice. The Constitution should define a clear list of board and guarantee powers of 30 to 50 per cent of revenue collected. There is no need to take into account the means of delegated authority and our right to land should not be limited to housing. Today, there is a need for a system of public awareness of plans to decentralize power, namely, a system on a network schedule without preparing society's awareness of reforms, nor can any of them be implemented. Methodologies are needed in village councils, municipal hearings, conferences, round tables, TV and newspapers, even leaflets. People need to show that what they're fighting for is already coming true. This is the success of our reformist actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u41	Thanks for the show. The word is given to the Head of the Directorate-General for Constitutional and Legal Modernization of the Administration of President Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u42	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, colleagues! Ideally, including Ukrainian, constitutional reform should result in an updated Basic Law that was fully accepted by all Ukrainian societies. It must be a constitutional treaty, a social treaty that unites the country, will achieve that legal quality that will enable the State to consider the basic law the foundation of the legal system and the foundation of the State’s activity. In Ukraine, the adoption and amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine has historically been associated with crises. Today, we're also in crisis, we're in the process of a constitutional process. I want to say that the Ukrainian State has exhausted all resources of the post - Soviet transitional state, including the state itself, and its basic law. Today, we will tell the truth, the state has lost the trust of its citizens. External calls, including military aggression, are absolutely real. Under these conditions, however, it is vital that decisions taken on constitutional reform come from a long - term perspective rather than from one that is based on a reflection of the current constitutional moment. The Constitution, as he wrote, should be raised above ordinary politics. The cornerstone of constitutional law is the Constitution, such as an act that must have both stability and legitimacy. In this regard, I want to say that changes to the Constitution should be adequate, systematic, and complex. There are five priorities that unfortunately are left out by politicians in the constitutional process. The first priority, which is key and determines the essence of all other issues related both to the substance of the Constitution and to its formation and to the implementation of the Constitution. This is a question of real consolidation based on European standards, a system of human rights and freedom. Including today, there is a need to consider the rights of the third generation, which are long debated in the world. Now, unfortunately, in real terms, when it comes to constitutional and political changes, and the experts are unfortunately talking about power, forgetting and solving the main issues of power at the central, regional, local level, forgetting that the essence of power is what defines the content of human rights and freedoms. And the very breakdown in the human rights system, the lack of dignity, has led to the processes that we have. The other one. Expansion and improvement of the regulation of the institutions of direct democracy. People have the right to participate in decision-making and to be held accountable together with authority, at the regional, local, national level. Third. Indeed, there is a clear problem of the effectiveness of the public authority organization at the central level. The territorial structure of our unitary state, the balance of centralization and decentralization of power on the ground, the reform of local self-government is the fourth serious issue. And, with the rest, the fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u43	Give me half a minute to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u44	I'm done. The fifth priority that needs to be completed in the constitutional process is to define the international status of Ukraine with the ability of the Ukrainian State to integrate itself into world and European processes. Dear colleagues, the question of the constitutional process is the legitimacy of the Constitution, unfortunately, they forgot about it in 2004, 2010 and forget about it today. Dear colleagues, there is a procedure for changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which must be followed properly and in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u45	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u46	Consolidate society, there is a need to hold the President's elections in one round, and all politicians and experts must make efforts today to make sure that after we require full subjects of the constitutional process, Parliament, President, really, seriously address the issue of the resolution of the substance of the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. An extremely serious problem that politicians are underestimating today. In conclusion, respected colleagues would like to say that an artificial choice is being made on the outside. Those of you talking about federalization, have you seen how at the level of the Constitution of the Russian Federation the issue of federalization is resolved? There is such a huge amount of authority, a purely federal level, there is such a huge level and the extent of the common competence of the central and federal entities that are decided solely at the federal level and here is a tiny entity of the Federation that has such a minimum object of the federation. Dear colleagues, we have enormous value -- a unitary state. We have to work today first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u47	Thank you. Marina Ivanovno, I'm asking a lot of very speakers, I've already given you extra time. Thank you, please sit down. I say, please sit down. Thank you. Please give the word to Oleg Laszko, the national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I think it's obvious to everyone that the Constitution doesn't apply to machine guns. The Constitution is not accepted under the pressure of bandits, terrorists, and divers with machine guns, balaclavs, and so forth. When I see one of the Separatist sponsors in Lugansk coming out here and talking in the blue eye, give them authority. Steal less! Gases in Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u49	I ask you, Oleg Valeriyovich, to speak properly, here are representatives of local self-government. Please, I'll turn off the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u50	Alexander Valentinovich, there are not only local government representatives, there are separatists in our room, and you give them the opportunity to speak, and we don't. You're not turning off the microphone. So what do the local elite want? Yanukovich’s gang robbed the country for four years. The revolution removed Yanukovich’s gang from power. What does the Yanukovich gang want today? They want to stay in power, they want to continue stealing, they want to continue raping, they want to continue bullying the Ukrainian people, and they say, "Don't touch us, we'll be masters of our own territory." We'll take Ukrainian citizens to the Cabal, we'll do whatever we want. And if you don't, we're going to fund terrorists, we're going to open borders, we're going to give them a bunch of money to create problems, then we're going to go to Turkey, we're going to say, "We're going to solve local problems, don't touch our business." That's what they're doing, so today's main task is not to change the Constitution, today's main task, Mr. Turchinov, who's turning off my microphone, today's main task is to protect the country, territorial integrity and sovereignty. And you, instead of letting me unlock the microphone, don't give microphones to terrorists and separatists. You conduct an anti-terror operation and eliminate the divers who are killing people in Ukraine today on Donbas for what they say in Ukrainian for carrying a Ukrainian flag. You're beef cowards today, you've turned Donbas into a criminal enclave, where he's normally afraid to go out on the streets because he's either kidnapped or killed or raped. That's what you have to do. Get order in the country! Ukraine today needs stability, calm, no chaos, no terrorists. Ukraine today needs strong power, Ukraine today needs a strong hand that does not play with terrorists, does not negotiate with them. Talking to the enemy is one thing: If the enemy does not appear to be destroyed. Ukrainian citizens are our values that we value and respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u51	Please give the floor to the President of the House of the Districts of Congress of the Local and Regional Councils of the Council of Europe, Romanovy Natalija Andrijavni. Please. To prepare Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished national MPs, distinguished audiences! I think you and I are so hot when we discuss changes to the Constitution, we understand that today Ukraine has a window of opportunity. And as President of the House of Regions of Congress of the Local Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, I can testify that in the last year, two of us in our House of Regions, in our Congress, we have been paying constant attention to Ukraine. And of course, the bloc involved in reforming local self - government is one of the most important blocks of change in the Constitution. And it seems to me that when we talk today about having a balance of branches of power, first of all we're talking about transferring money to places to have good service to the population. When we talk about decentralization, we're actually talking about what Ukraine should have done a long time ago, because back in 1997, we approved the Charter of European Local Self-Government, where the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental. And so today we know that this concept that was developed by three associations, which has been worked for a long time, is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and it is based on the transfer of powers, including financial ones, to places. What do we have today? In my mind, the state we have today is very much like an exotic palm, where there are gold bars on the top and there are lots of leaves, but there's no leaves at the bottom. And you're all present representatives of local government know how hard it is to solve problems on the spot. So, of course, the Council of Europe is ready to give any opportunity: both financial and expert -- in order to model and finally to understand how the process of reforming local self-government will move, how much it will cost. And I can say that by essentially discussing this block, I don't think anyone here is against the question of decentralization. I absolutely agree with Marina Ivanovna that people in places don't understand the difference between federalization and decentralization, but they know clearly that they need money to have a kindergarten, a hospital, and so on. So I think that if I don't tell you the news, there's not going to be another monitoring mission, a post-monitoring activity that Congress and the Council of Europe will be doing. And I call on the government, along with the Supreme Council, to find the opportunity and place it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u53	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u54	and correctly place in time space the necessary changes that will create the necessary balance that will make our Ukraine a very strong state. And the last. During the last session, we voted in a resolution on Ukraine, where only 22 people were against it. It's just the Russian Federation. And everyone else is in favor. We are truly supported, we are expected, and not just Europe, the Eastern Partnership countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality of Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Please prepare Kozir's Paul Henrichovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u56	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear voters, dear colleagues! First of all, we put different meanings around the term "decentralisation." Some see decentralization as an increase in the powers of local communities, while others see decentralization as the disintegration of Ukraine. And hopefully such a minority. Decentralisation as the first stage in the process of eliminating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in general. This vision is to end and clearly distinguish those who want a unitary decentralized Ukraine with increased powers of local communities, with the transfer of money to a basic level, with the level "overall the village, the village of the city" and those who are just now using the situation in the country, including even these hearings, to continue the escalation of the tension in the eastern regions. Hopefully, there's a lot more constructively configured. At the same time, before any changes to the Constitution, we must condemn separatism and terrorism clearly, by all factions, by all political forces. Because changes to the Constitution cannot be made in the background of Ukrainian special forces being tortured on direct air by Russian television channels, in fact, as they find dead people in the rivers in the East, being struck by the fittings of people who have just other views and who have come out for a peaceful demonstration. All those who are currently discussing changes to the Constitution should condemn these phenomena and thus stress that they are behind the peaceful and evolutionary development of the social process in Ukraine, which will result in a consensus change to the Constitution. At the same time, if we speak very briefly in terms of content, the total cancellation will now lead to chaos and separatism throughout the country of local government administrations. Because it will be used largely by destructive political forces to destabilize the country’s situation. We need to be very careful and considerate in this regard. It's not six hundred with something, it's a hundred and a little more. There to leave state administrations, to reduce their authority, but these authorities must be strong and able to maintain order in the areas. Well, other issues related to the direct election of local leaders should also be settled. Because just pick a local prince who will announce a new self-proclaimed republic right now, you can. And then what to do with this is the big question. In this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u57	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u58	In this connection, I propose that a wonderful bill be tabled by the public and experts, 4289, which clearly addresses these issues both with administrations and with implementations, and with the authorization of local communities. This will be a constructive way to serve our common cause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u59	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Association of Small Cities of Ukraine, the city head of Ukraine, Kozirev Pavl Henrichovich. Please prepare Geller Eugenia Borisovich for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u60	Dear community, I am deeply shocked. Is that the Parliament of the State? They make decisions here, they make deals. At least you have to listen. I thought there would be people here who feed children who repair houses, well, cleaning communities, in our country. They'll say we've come up with something. Tell me, do you like it or do you need it or do you need it? They'll listen. They'll make some decisions. I'm sorry. They screamed at the camera, they ran. And for whom are we going to say this now if the turn comes to the city heads? I hope we have enough gossip, we have, you have, 300 votes, and we have to save the country. I firmly believe that this reform will change and we will not recognize Ukraine. In any case, I know for certain that if this happens, that Mr. Groisman will be an honorable citizen of our community. And I hope this is supported by all the communities in the country. But this holiday of life still needs to be lived. I hope Vladimir Borisovich, at least our professional vice-premier will hear today, is here. Treasury. Look, guys, you're having a club break with the Supreme Council. I came in, there's toilet paper in the bathroom. These are defenseless articles in the budget. How are these unprotected articles to communities, and for the Supreme Council or the executive authorities, these articles are protected? We need to solve this now and do at least what was right was once. Let's do it today -- state taxes are being spent by the state, local taxes are being spent by the community. A little, a lot -- as much as it is, we're spending. But the community spends its money, the state spends its money. Because today the community has no money! They're only on paper. Payments are blocked. The second question. These are tenders. I'll give you an example. Under our laws, the tender price can be increased by 10 percent. Fuel. You all know, maybe, well, everybody's fueling up that much more gasoline has gone up than 10 percent. We have to break the deal and make a new deal. But today there is no line in the legislation to be made during this period of time. But "quick help" needs to be fueled every day. Dear friends, there are a lot of things that need to be done today until we come to this reality of reform that will change the country. Let's do committee hearings, more professional. Let's gather government leaders, local self-government associations and.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u61	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u62	Let's talk about what to do today, tomorrow and tomorrow, until we find a voice for this country's reform strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u63	Thank you for the talk. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the head of the Gellier Budget Committee. The only thing I don't see is him in the hall. Dear colleagues, while the head of the committee is on the lookout, please find Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko. The faction asked me to give you a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u64	Honourable MPs, distinguished voters, respected Ukrainians! I understand that today is a very important day to discuss changes to the Constitution. The very important steps that we are taking and doing today. But the most important thing to do today is to keep our nation whole, so that every Ukrainian, regardless of the region where he lives, where he lives, feels confident. And today, all the events that are taking place in the East -- Lugansk, Donetsk, Kharkiv -- are very disturbing to every family, every family, every Ukrainian, no matter what region. I'm sure we need to assign, Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm addressing you as the Head of the Supreme Council, a lot of questions are about the force, a lot of questions about the situation that is developing today, and in many places is out of control. We, the strike faction, are initiating an off-the-shelf session, a closed session where we can ask questions, with the use of force, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the army, where we can hear a report on how an anti-terrorist action is taking place -- that's the first. And secondly, we all have a lot of questions that we want to ask. That's why I have a request. Tell me, please, whether it's after lunch today or tomorrow I'm going to have a session with the muscle, where we can hear the report and also get answers to a lot of questions that we have today. Once again, for each of us today, for every Ukrainian to be at peace, so that every Ukrainian may feel confident, not afraid, not worried about his family and be able to see for sure tomorrow. Because, unfortunately, there is no such confidence today in Ukraine. This is an extraordinary task for each of the Ukrainians. And we're waiting for you to answer your question about the convening of the Supreme Council meeting at the hands of the Force, the closed session, where we can hear the answers to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we're going to do this, and I'm going to talk to the faction leaders about when best to do this. Because it really is an immediate question that needs to be discussed. I invite you to speak to the head of the city of Alcevsk. Kosjuga Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u66	Respected participants in public hearings fully agree with the need to make fundamental changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which requires life itself. The delay in legislative decision-making on local referendums, the holding of the All-Ukrainian referendum, the constitutional definition of Russian status is a real threat to the country's existence. A permanent solution to these issues is necessary to remove social tension and restore public consent. Local self-government is an important issue of constitutional settlement. Guarantees its existence, autonomy, real opportunities and the vitality of communities. I am convinced that amending the current Constitution of Ukraine is an opportunity to bring about the organization of local self-government in accordance with the European Charter. The most painful issue of local self-government remains financial security. I mean, there are powers, but no one knows how to do them. To date, the territorial communities have neither economic nor financial incentives for self-improvement. In order to avoid further such problems, I propose the inclusion in the text of the Constitution of Ukraine of article 9 of the European Charter on Local Self-Government in full. I draw particular attention to the need to institutionalize the rules and responsibilities of the public authorities, in particular to local self-government. So what's the point of the proposal? Any decision taken that results in losses to urban, rural, rural and other communities must be fully compensated. However, legislative implementation should be sufficiently simple in form and time. I will give an example of housing and utilities, the city community of Alcevska, which has become famous for its technological disaster, participates in the government programme. With its money, it is designing 213 elevators, and the Government is making a decision, but it is not being implemented today. There are so-called investments that are located in Ukraine, as far as I know, the Government's decision is not being implemented. I would like to refer to Prime Minister Arsenia Petrovich, to the ministers present here, to take appropriate measures or to repeal this order so as not to disgrace neither the city's head nor those who have taken this decision. The most ideal Constitution would not work when its provisions were not secured by law. You know, you've analyzed the current Constitution of lawyers I work with. To date, we do not see the adoption of six laws regulating constitutional rules. This is primarily the Communion Property Act, the Peace Meeting Act, and so forth. As a city head, I'm sure we should all do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u67	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u68	In the country of the situation, for various reasons, we have not been able to realize much expected of our Ukrainian citizens, but we have a chance to correct everything. To that end, we must hear and comply with the demands of the people of Ukraine, independent of nationality, religion and place of residence. At the same time, there is a strong belief that the very fact that such a forum is an invitation not only to scientists but also to practitioners is evidence of the State's desire. Honesty.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u69	Thanks for the show. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanovich. Please prepare Yuri Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u70	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear fellows, invited, elected! Today, civil society demands that parliament adopt changes to the Constitution that would radically change the structure of power in Ukraine. You know, the previous authorities have done everything they can to centralize power, and now the current authorities have to do everything they can to decentralize it. The majority of the population of Ukraine, requiring greater economic and socio-cultural rights and powers for the regions in which it resides, do not distinguish external decentralization as a federalization that actually weakens the state, with the decentralization that the State actually has to strengthen. Decentralization itself should be about making changes to the Constitution, what? First, they will strengthen the expanded powers of local self-government authorities, with possible representation in the area, government or President for general supervision of the implementation and implementation of laws. The other one. The formation of executive committees, district councils, district councils instead of governments, that is, execution of executive powers, and decision-making on funds. The new Constitution also requires appropriate safeguards of control and accountability to the authorities. Such a safeguard in most countries of the European Union is the more proportionate distribution between the President, the Government and Parliament and the absolute independence of the judiciary, the granting of powers to Parliament to control the executive power. With regard to the political responsibility of government officials. You know, in the event that the current parliament expresses mistrust to government officials, it means that any government official has no right to occupy any government office that has been released because of mistrust in the current parliamentary office. Next. Amendments to the Constitution should also create effective mechanisms for public control over the functioning of the new government, such as elections, the possibility of recalling national MPs, as well as members of all levels, monitoring the state budget and local budgets. The new Constitution should contain mechanisms and rules for the conduct of all levels. You have to give up that shameful practice when in every election, the active authority chooses the system that is most convenient for it. The election of the members of the Supreme Council, the district councils are to be held solely on partyly open regional lists, and all other members of the local councils should be elected on the majority system. The changes should also include the cancellation of the general supervision of the prosecutor’s office. The updated Constitution should become a real social treaty, not just a treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u71	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u72	The reform of the Constitution should be aimed at strengthening parliamentaryism. And we, the Ukrainian National Deputies, have absolutely and undeniably to support the territorial integrity, sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine's borders today, the preservation of civil peace, the support of Ukraine's unity and European integration as the basis for further transformations in our country. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u73	Thank you. The word is given to the expert of the Council of Europe on local self-government of Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen! Several traps: the first – direct election of executive heads at the level of areas and districts. This is the first and foremost sign of federalism. The other one. The decommissioning of the public authority of general jurisdiction, local and state administrations, said, could be done by the prosecutor, although the actual function of the prosecutor's office was to present a public indictment, not a general oversight. Also exotic is the proposal to unite the positions of elected executive director and head of the MDA. The requirement for the transfer of most state taxes to regional budgets can be considered a fraud. Note: Areas, not basic budgets, do not take into account both the huge imbalances and the mobility of these taxes in the territory. Unfortunately, there are even more sophisticated proposals, especially the proposal: to appoint and release heads of government exclusively by the government. This is evidence of political conjunctivity, an effort to downgrade the presidency. At that time it must be, ensuring the stability of the political system, since the government is politically involved, it is impossible to ensure the political neutrality of the heads of government. Another mistake is the elimination of state representation in the areas. In fact, there are many today and they are weak, but the concept of the formation of common districts predicts that there will be no more than a hundred and these will be future areas. And transferring to this level most of the functions of government through MDA allow you to avoid separatism. By the way, the creation of 96 departments in France allowed Napoleon to save a country from the collapse of a revolution. In fact, the head of the government is the landlord's eye in places, the only official in the territory that can be fully trusted by the centre, both the government and the President, so the requirements for it are special. First of all, political engagement, it should ensure the only application in Ukraine, so there should be rotation every three years. The status of the head of the MDA allows to solve the painful problem of competence of the executive boards. Because the paradox of democracy is that people vote mostly with their heart, not with their minds, and they choose often professionally unable to manage complex utilities. Thus, the head of state representation exercises control over the legality of the local authorities and allows them to raise at least one month in the newly elected local council to stop the act, which is considered illegal, to bring it to trial. You shouldn't take functions like the head of an MDA just to control acts of local self-governance. Another area of responsibility is the coordination of the activities of the territorial authorities, ministries and departments. In this case, the head of the U.S.A. provides feedback, signaling the shortcomings of application directly to the Kabmin. This order is a serious anticorruption safeguard. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u75	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u76	For the Ukrainian policy, the relationship between local self-government and executive power requires reflection and testing. The use of such a model in Kiev is a wonderful possibility. This is about the adoption of Law 4289, which provides for the division of the powers of the city's head, which is chosen by the Chinese and headed by the executive authority, and of the head of the KMDA, who is appointed by the government and who performs control functions in relation to acts of self-government. This will demonstrate the sincerity of the authorities ’ intentions to reform the territorial organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am proposing that we work without interruption in connection with the fact that so many are willing to speak and that we have the opportunity to listen to all our colleagues. The word is now given to Catherineczuk Mikoli Dmitrovic, Ukrainian national deputy. Please. Please prepare Granny Mikola Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u78	Dear voters, distinguished listeners! I think it's surprising to everyone who hears this discussion now that there's a very low level of understanding of what needs to be done in the constitutional process. And I see here that we have a Constitutional Court judge, Alexander Frost is, well, they're probably looking forward to finally having a conversation about decentralization of power, strengthening local self-government. But unfortunately, in this political process that Ukraine is in today, it affects even the ability to listen to what the government is proposing. What does the government offer? Well, first of all, he's talking about handing power over to the Ukrainian citizens. That's what the existing elite like today: party, state? No, I don't. Because people will have to be counted. The power of communities is the basic slogan that today is meant to be echoed in these changes to the Constitution, because people live there, they make decisions. And listen to the mayors of cities who say they're away from being able to influence the lives of people living in their cities in their villages. Because they don't have anything. Above them are some ministers who are appointed school principals, and above them are ministers who assign hospital heads, and above them are some men who appoint militiamen. So anything that would affect a person's life is taken somewhere. No one is responsible for and responsibility for these assignments. So what the government is proposing is essentially a Polish model of decentralization of power. Strengthening the power of local self - government is the only right way for Ukraine to move. Under the conditions of Ukraine's choice towards Euro-integration. We need to think about the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty, part of the Lisbon Treaty, which is to become an integral part of our Constitution. And we also need to talk about what the presidential election is today. How do we want to see the President? Well, I think you're responsible. How can he be responsible when article 111 of the Constitution Act is called the impeachment? It's impenetrable. Because the President introduces his Attorney General, he is appointed. And this Attorney General will never reveal a criminal case against the President. We want to have a civilized movement towards a democratic society -- no parliamentary immunity, no touching of the President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u79	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Kyiv District Council of Babenko Mikoli Viktorovich. Please. Please be prepared by the German Leonid Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u80	Deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has adopted the concept of reforming local self-government, which we understand should be a road map for reforms of local self-government and decentralization of power. What worries us most is that the positive changes proposed by the concept do not stem from the fact that, once again, local budgets will have no financial autonomy and will depend again on inter-budget transfers. Based on a model of financial conditions for local self-government proposed by the concept and translated into real indicators of Kyivska in 2013, ideally out of 7 billion 500 million dollars of expenditure The Kyiv Region's new financial model would require 2 billion 200 million dollars of transfers from the state budget. So the government budget grants would be 30 percent. I would like to point out that 30 percent of the state budget transfers to local budgets is the most optimistic scenario, which provides for 100 percent of income from corporate income tax to local budgets and does not take into account the costs associated with the additional authorizations to be received by the newly created projects. In reality, the volume of transfers will again be between 40 and 60 percent. We have to stress that the real reform of local self-government and the decentralisation of power will not start with reform of the territorial organization of government or from the transfer of authority from the head of administration to the head of executive, but from the moment that the real financial autonomy of local budgets is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u81	Thanks for the show. The word is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Germany, Leonidas Aleksandrovitch. Please prepare for the Frost of Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u82	Thank you. The German Leonid Alexanderovich faction of Fatherskin, the city of Kiev. I want to talk about the changes that are going to be made to chapter eight of the Constitution, which today is called justice. And I would start by saying that for all twenty years with the hook of Ukraine's independence, we never had perfect judicial authority. And what happened in the last two years, when Ukraine's name made decisions, where the white was said to be black, and this was particularly apparent and was demonstrated in those decisions, as was the case at the events of the auto- and the Jew-maidan, the completely judicial trials where the records were copied with the same grammatical and orthographic errors were used in completely unrelated events by the same judge, who was clearly aware that he was taking an unfair decision, and he was doing so knowingly. Covering up and then stressing that he had been directed either by the court manager or by the President's Administration. It was clear that the judicial authority had recently been used exclusively as a tool for the totalitarian regime of Yanukovic. And Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk spoke correctly today. Our tasks and the tasks that we put before the Constitutional Commission today and before the Supreme Council to ensure that never again in the future anyone who is not in office as President has the opportunity to use the judge and his decisions that he makes in the name of Ukraine to satisfy his positions, ideological or any other. As the only arbitrator today between the parties to the dispute, the judge must exercise confidence. Otherwise, the judiciary makes no sense at all. And that is why the Supreme Council took the first step in the form of the Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary. And this is a very serious step that has taken for the first time, perhaps throughout Parliament, the transfer of powers from one branch of power to another, I mean judicial self-government, the parliament has refused and delegated the power of administration to judicial self-government. And the positions that we plan to introduce in the changes to the Constitution are the logical and powerful continuation of this system of decentralization of power in judicial self-government. And that's why neither the President nor the Supreme Council will take part in the formation of the judiciary today. Surrender these powers to the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u83	Let me finish half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u84	To form a new composition of the High Council of Justice on other principles and to provide with all the proposals that are today in the changes to the Constitution, what is now lacking in the judiciary and in the society of Ukraine, namely, confidence in the judiciary, in those who make decisions, and in fact in those decisions that they make. Our responsibility is to restore confidence in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u85	Thank you. The word is given to Mr. Alexandre Alexandrovich, who was Head of the Supreme Council in 1994-1998, 2006-2007. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u86	Dear listeners to the hearing! We are experiencing a serious state crisis today. If we don't do anything, we lose the state. Does the adoption of the Constitution solve this problem? No, of course not. But it does signal to society that politicians, authorities, are set up to change the system of government. Because we're going to keep moving to nowhere and we're going to crash. Changes to the Constitution are necessary. Everyone understands that today. And today's discussion also shows that in general everyone understands the essence of the changes that need to be made to the Basic Law. It's a parliamentary-presidential model of governance; it's a unitary state with strong electoral structures, elected local government; the elimination of state administrations (you don't have to be afraid of that word because it's an environment of corruption); removal. speculation about language, like it or dislike it, everyone can use their own language freely in preserving the status of Ukrainian-Ukrainian language; it's a transparent court system; and constitutional order is provided by the people themselves; authority under the control of the people in all chains. What's important is that we're talking about systemic change, not the new constitution. I specifically emphasize this, not about the new Constitution. For that matter, I would like to say a few things that people may not like. We need to give a signal to society that we need to do today both with the Constitution and with the whole system of power in a way that the Constitution is to be adopted by autumn. Can this be done by today’s parliament, even if it were absolutely unanimous? I don't think so. Read chapter 13 of the Constitution and you will say that it is impossible to do so. In addition, the parliament, like all authorities, has a negative assessment in Ukraine. Can we pass a negative assessment of authority on to the Constitution? By no means, the Constitution should be higher than that. So these changes relate to what the more general procedure foresees, the Constitution should be adopted in a nationwide referendum, an all-U.S. constitutional referendum, which should be announced by the President-elect to understand what he should do. Because his work, not to carry out the fantastic obligations that he now proclaims, one or the other, has ensured that the Constitution is respected by all and the law is one for all. Then there can be only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u87	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u88	I'll be done in a minute. The President can announce a referendum prepared accordingly under our Constitution early in June, September, early in September, to hold a referendum, by the end of the year, to hold elections, for the term elections of the Supreme Council, for the local authorities, and then we can only talk about the realization of what we are discussing here during the hearing. I would like us to be aware of the need for these steps, otherwise we will lose our state in our conversations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Kaidi Alexi Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, representatives of the public, media! Today, Ukraine is in the process of constitutional change and constitutional reform in the country is primarily a requirement of the Ukrainian people. Of course, the Constitution must first and foremost correspond to political and socio-economic realities, taking into account the prospects of the State's development, otherwise it will remain a declaration of intent. Many sectors of the economy, including the banking sector, are subject to reform, taking into account the need to make changes to the Constitution regarding the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine and the banking system as a whole. We therefore propose: firstly, Nutzbank should coordinate supervisory policy on commercial banks, while monitoring the activities of the National Bank on the part of Parliament and the public. The other one. The introduction of criminal responsibility from the antisocial, monetary, and other policies of the National Bank of Ukraine should be considered. Third. State control of the banking sector must be ensured, at least 30 percent of the country’s bank capital. This will allow the state to control the banking sector through market mechanisms, such as the introduction of current programmes and the limitation of interest rates, the bank’s bank’s share of the money. Four. There is also a need to stimulate the creation of municipal banks, when we talk about local self-government development, and we need to provide certain and financial resources to strengthen the role of local self-government. And these municipal banks will be owned by the local community and, in particular, by a control package. We're for the formation of mixed form of ownership banking structures under the control package of the state. Fifth. In addition, the control packages of all banks in Ukraine should be in the hands of Ukrainians. The results of the controls, the balance sheet reports of banks should be accessible and public. Six. To credit projects of different levels, it is necessary to create government development banks divided by a sectoral principle. They need not be too specialized to create excessive management costs. Seven. There is also a need to set up an effective, transparent mechanism to refinance banks, in which Nazbank is primarily directed by economic activity rather than political activity. Our Dignity Revolution has given birth to a new state that no longer intends to accept corruption, lies, bribery, or fair courts. The new Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u91	Give me half a minute to finish the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u92	The new Constitution of Ukraine should be a heartpiece for unity and the building of a powerful, just, indivisible, unitary and legal Ukrainian state on the basis of social and national justice. A state that will hold a decent place among the leading countries of the world and ensure the continued development of the Ukrainian nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u93	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family and Youth Policy of the House of Arthur Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! In recent times, we have given much time and attention to political issues, ignoring social policy issues. On the one hand, it is logical in terms of Russian armed aggression, on the other hand, that most people, both in the East and in the West of Ukraine, are primarily interested in social issues, such as support for families with children, multi-child families, young citizens. Of course, the issue of preserving peace, self-security, has come to the fore for all Ukrainian citizens. However, social issues need to be addressed in order to calm the situation. So in determining the optimum system of state power, we should not try to satisfy regional political and economic elites, but rather to define a system of governance that will be comfortable for millions of citizens of our state. At the same time, it should be noted that there is no universal approach to dealing with the problems of families with children, including many children and low-income families, as evidenced by regional statistics on orphans and children deprived of parental care. Yes, if the proportion of children in Western Ukraine is half as common in Ukraine, the proportion is unfortunately the largest in Kirovgrad, Mikolaiiv and Herson. Similarly, the proportion of orphans covered by family forms differs from 70 percent in Zaporzik and Mikolai oblast, to 90 percent in the Plain region. At the same time, the majority of adopted children are 17 percent in Kiev in the city and Kyiv and Donetsk areas, the smallest in the Ternopil, Lviv and Mikolai oblasts, up to 6 percent. So we need to give each area the opportunity to choose their own forms of state support for families with children and orphans, and other categories of citizens who need state support. At the same time, it is necessary to maintain State control over the rights of the child, by paying timely support to families with children, single mothers, and heroic mothers in order to protect the listed categories of citizens. There are now many discussions around two issues: federalization and decentralization. Not everyone understands what their difference is. In federalization, we're going to get an increase in the bureaucratic apparatus in all areas of Ukraine, the selection of local princes who won't be supported. Neither the people nor the President nor the central authorities are under control. It is therefore necessary to follow the path of establishing executive committees of district councils and district councils, which will receive additional powers for the development of local communities, including additional financial resources. At the same time, small ones need to be created instead of public administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u95	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u96	to maintain State control over compliance with legislation, the full use of budgetary resources and the protection of our citizens. I'm sure today we have a chance to get a European system of government and local self-government, where people's interests will be at the centre of our attention. We need to give up political ambitions and private interests, develop a balanced draft of changes to the Constitution, and have a public discussion of these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u97	Thank you. The word is given to Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u98	Dear participants in our hearings, distinguished voters! Let's take a look at the 20-year path of our history. And unfortunately, we'll come to a sad conclusion: no election, whether it's a parliamentary election, whether it's a presidential election, or whether it's an election of local authorities, we didn't have the same law. Under each election, we wrote a new law. Moreover, no President lived by the established Constitution, and every President was bound to have a new Constitution. Unfortunately, today, at the 23rd year of independence, we don't change those rules. And to be honest, and, I think, my words will be confirmed by academic and other legal representatives: no Constitution that has been adopted has practically been accepted, some have been adopted unconstitutionally, and others have been on the verge of a huge constitutional foll. Where did it start? In 1995, the so-called Constitutional Treaty of June 8, which was adopted by 240 votes in this room, and the Constitution changes 300 national deputies; the Constitution of 1996 was adopted 24 hours in a row under the President's decree that if you do not accept it, it will be adopted by the universal referendum, and in a way that I, the President, will write it. As the changes were adopted, or more specifically, the new 2010 Constitution is known to everyone. Plus the so-called unconstitutional third tour of the President, and the Constitution was voted on by one package. The Constitutional Court's decision in 2010 was six years later, which was legally correct: that we had violated article 159 of the Constitution in 2004 when it was adopted, but no one changed the Constitution with self-influence. We returned after the Constitutional Court's decision to the 1996 Constitution. What we did on February 27th of this year was in total breach of chapter 13 of the Constitution -- we once changed it without having any authority at all. What happens to what we're talking about right now I think I understand. Nothing's gonna happen. Because unfortunately for the first time, and for my history aside from the 1996 Constitution, we're talking for the first time about serious changes to the Constitution without any changes. So everyone sees them in their own way. For the first time, we don't see a text that needs to be discussed. Because neither the President gave it, nor 150 national deputies, but every political power, every organization. And so, unfortunately, there's nothing to discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u99	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u100	That's what I'm talking about. And it's probably going to be like the folk saying: we talk, and if we have to vote, if we have to vote, we're going to cry. Too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u101	The word is given to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u102	Good day to all those taking part in the special meeting of the Supreme Council! I have in my hands now the Constitution of Ukraine and the changes to it that are being proposed. We all know that the Constitution is much more than just a legislative act, that the Constitution is the spirit of a nation, that is a nation's strategy, that is the goal that we want to come to. This is much more than a legal document. I can say that after the revolution, the country is looking for radical change, and everyone understands that. If there is no real change, no matter how much we reform the Constitution, society alone will not feel that we are really doing something important. I fully support all the reforms, the proposals we are about to make to the Constitution. For many years, as I recall my work in the Supreme Council, we talked about giving more rights and opportunities to local self - government. We talked about transferring the executive capacity to the local authorities to give them independence to adopt the budget code that corresponds to such constitutional changes. I fully support all of this. But I just want to point out that if we give authority to local authorities, we are not obliged to lose our country’s leadership. If the country's leadership is violated, we're open to you both for regression, for aggression, and for anything that's bad today in our country. So I would ask that those MPs, the groups that were created, do everything they can to certainly open up opportunities for local self-government, in no way have we lost the country's ability to be whole, single, guided, and a country that is moving in a common way created by all elites and people of strategy. But at the same time, I would like to point out to you that today, unfortunately, both to the Supreme Council, and to the Constitution, and to all branches of power in the people very little trust. And this is not because we lived without a Constitution or with a bad constitution, we just lived in such a way that the Constitution had little meaning in the life of the average people. The rights defined in the Constitution remain defined. Not only are they not provided by mechanisms, they are not guaranteed to the people at all. And so our task, if we make changes to the Constitution, is to restore to this Constitution faith in society, faith in the heart of every human being. And that's why the changes they're proposing right now aren't enough. It's just handing over a piece of authority from one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u103	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u104	At the same time, we owe it to you to think that civil society, every citizen today, will not be affected by these changes. And besides, if we continue to leave politics with you, every virtually every element of our country's life is dependent on political corruption, the relationship between politicians and oligarchy, and the corrupt system, when money replaces any patriotic, legal and necessary country's decision, we will never change anything with you. Or you and I agree that Parliament no longer works for shadow money but works for the country. If we don't agree with you that we adopt such rules of our lives as are enshrined in the Constitution and laws that will make people feel that money doesn't solve everything in our country, it's not political culinary agreements, it's real constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u105	Please give Julia another half minute, Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u106	Half a minute, please. And I am convinced that after the revolution, we are simply obliged to change the country that way. And then the changes to the Constitution will have meaning, and leadership will have meaning, and Parliament will have not 1 percent trust, but 70-80 percent trust. That's what I want for everyone, and I believe you're ready for real change, and I always support you. God Give You Really Honest Work for Ukraine! I believe that. Good luck!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to National Deputy Shevchenk Alexander Oxentiyovich. Please. Please prepare Orlovsky Alexi Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u108	Thank you for your word, Reverend Head. Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable deputies and the guests present here, the participants in the hearings, to what we really need to hear the demands of the people. The point is that the Dignity Revolution has put into order the day-to-day real expansion of human rights and freedoms, not only of human beings, but of our communities. And that's what we've come up with in this fight with so-called national councils. See, today, even though it's not legal, today the communities continue to choose national councils, although it's not done by legal methods, but I would say by subterranean methods. That is why I welcome the desire of the Government and the Head of the Supreme Council to legitimize essentially the issue of the law and the freedom of the community. Not necessarily, I think we should take this to a broad extent and change the Constitution. In a separate law or in the Law on Local Self - Rule, certain changes can be made and legalized. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of changing our legal system. According to our Constitution, the rule of law is recognized and exercised in Ukraine. But what do we really see? We really see the rule of law. That's what's scary! The rule of law, not the right! And we issue and issue laws all the time. I'm just going to say that last year, the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority concluded a thousand eight hundred laws or bills, more loyally, a thousand eight hundred in 2013! And everything we have is valid according to one data -- 50,000, and according to the other data -- 90,000. Your Honor, it's time to change the sources of law. To put an end to this sea of legislative acts. No one knows them, they contradict each other. The source of justice must be the Constitution as a spirit of the people. But in addition to the law, there must be sound and sound sense, first and foremost, and the right of the just.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u109	Thank you. The word is given to Orlovsky Alexi Sergiyyovich, representative of the International Rebirth Fund. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the honourable ones present! Today, much has been said of this rostrum in the context of reforming local self - government, in the context of decentralization. But we should not forget that local self - government is not limited to the direct realization of certain powers by local authorities, the appropriate councils, and their executive bodies. Important attention must also be given to the so-called forms of democracy directly. Because today the Constitution establishes that the right to local self - government is exercised primarily directly by members of the local communities and by local authorities. Moreover, the European Charter and its additional protocols recognize the inalienable right of members of the territorial communities to exercise local self - government. Regrettably, the corresponding positions have not yet been heard from this rostrum and in no way, as far as I know, until they are reflected at the level of the corresponding projects. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these positions today, as I see it, in the context of the changes that are taking place today, stress the importance of developing the very forms of local, local democracy, as it is otherwise called. It's about establishing at the constitutional level an approximate at least inexhaustible (I underline this word "inexhaustible"), a list of forms of local democracy. These include forms such as general congregations of members of the local community, local initiatives, public hearings, and so forth. It is possible to exercise public control over the activities of public authorities and local authorities, as well as their officials. At the same time, there is an enormous need today for the development of a system of self-organizational organs. Because today’s legal status of self - organization bodies is at 140 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine is insufficient. Today, we need to ask about the need and the possibility, in the context of administrative and territorial reform, of instituting a single form of self-organization of the population, guaranteeing the rights of all technical capabilities, financial and other opportunities for members of the territorial communities to form self-organize the population. In fact, the organs of self-organization in many of today's positions, I emphasize, these representative bodies have to grow into a real system of governance at the local level. And for the rest. I would very much like to see our similar discussions in the future and, in general, constitutional reform being implemented with the maximum involvement of representatives of civil society institutions, not just in the context of this working group, this special commission, which was created at Parliament level. And it's very important that we don't lose what was done in the last few years. For example, for about a year and a half, a committee of the constitutional assembly is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u111	Half a minute, give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u112	Accordingly, the committee of the Constitutional Assembly worked to improve chapters 9, 10, and 11 of the Constitution. Yes, there are many questions to other chapters, to change, to other chapters of the Constitution of Ukraine, but these, believe me, have found consensus in the context and the scientific environment, and the political environment, to a large extent, have found consensus. So I'd like us not to lose these jobs and take them into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u113	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Supreme Council Committee on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement Activities of Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please. Please prepare Illenko Andriy Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u114	The Honourable Head, the honourable audience, the issue of constitutional reform, is obviously extremely relevant, but this is a responsible matter, not just today’s problems. I will note, despite the fact that today, according to the problem of federalization, local self-governance and distribution of budgetary resources between the center and the region, the issue of law enforcement is one of the main sources of the crisis that Ukraine is facing today. I would like to remind you that the escalation of the protest movements of the fall occurred just after the insolent, cynical, illegal actions of members of the Special Units of the Eromanadean militia. The brutality of law enforcement became the trigger that freed the spiral of violence from both sides. On the one hand, it was the criminal punishment of manslaughter in militia pursuits, and on the other hand, it was actually necessary to defend the civilian population against the armed group attack of so - called law enforcement officers. At the same time, all of this would be impossible without the harassment of police officers by prosecutors and judges. During constitutional reform, the committee considers that the following issues cannot be left out of the question: the constitutional status of a citizen in relations with law enforcement authorities, i.e. article 29 of the Constitution of Ukraine should be extended and divided into several articles, which would clearly regulate the different aspects of the interaction between a person and a lawyer, from the examination of documents to the detention of a court. The other one. To decentralize the system of organizations and to administer law enforcement agencies to ensure their leadership, it would also allow local authorities to address urgent problems of law enforcement in specific areas. Life shows that the former practice of dealing with these issues through one - person decision - making has led to the excessive cruelty of law enforcement officials. I also mean the events that are taking place today to capture the structures of the authorities in Crimea and East Ukraine, as well as the capture of the hostages by separatists in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. The position of people and experts for further action varies greatly from the calls for the organization of municipal police to radical proposals for the abolition of the right of the police to operational and search activities, the arms of the civilian population with short-term weapons and the legal organization of private-detective activities. In fact, this is all closely related to the overall problems of decentralization and the expansion of regional budgetary rights. In the Constitution, only the judicial branch of authority, the less regulated organization and the functions of the procuratorate are relatively detailed, and there is little about the law enforcement authorities. There must be a solution to the issue of the concentration of prosecutors and law enforcement agencies in solving their specific tasks. The sad general oversight is a question that is already being discussed, which is getting tired of everyone. The committee is adopted in the first reading on the basis of a new draft of the Public Prosecutor’s Law, but its approval is directly linked to its constitutional functions: whether we focus the prosecutor’s office on resisting crime and supporting the state’s accusations, or whether we spoil its competence, resources, and efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u115	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u116	in a few directions to the European-type, impotent prosecutor's office. Once and for all, we need to resolve the issue of separation from the D.A.’s office of investigators. In fact, the last obstacle on this path is the absence of the State Bureau of Investigation Act, which, according to the new KPC, is to assume the investigative functions of today's investigation departments of the Public Prosecutor's Office. By the way, the Constitution clearly defines neither the concept nor the list of law enforcement agencies, which has led to requests to the Constitutional Court for the dissemination of the concept of "rightful authority" to the executive service, other similar bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u117	Give me another chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u118	And the third, the last, is about parliamentary and public control. In connection with the foregoing, it is necessary to review article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the powers of the Supreme Council and the possible introduction in the Constitution of a separate group of articles on the principles for the formation of a system of law enforcement agencies and prosecutors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u119	Thank you. The word is given by Illenko Andriy Yuriovich. Please. Please prepare Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u120	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Honorable participants in a special session of Parliament. In fact, many pertinent issues have been discussed here in these walls, but unfortunately, there is something we do not see from the MP's corps about the issues under discussion, and that is not very good. Because, in fact, it is important today to make very specific and clear decisions so that, on the one hand, we realize that the state really needs decentralization and needs to develop local self-government. But it is not the so - called federalization of which the fifth column of the Kremlin is now related, nor is it the mere power of corruption at the central level simply to shift to the authority of corrupters at the local level. So that the same people, the same politicians, who were always doing the same thing, robbing their own people, now had the opportunity not to win and seize power in Kiev, but to have their own eyes feudal in places and do the same. This is not a development of local self - government. The development of local self-government is, for example, the development of direct democracy, it's the development of local communities, it's the development of referendums, plebiscites, it's when citizens have a direct impact on decision-making. When, for example, construction cannot be started in a certain area if there is no agreement of the community. You can't set up a kiosk if you don't agree with the community. You can't cut out the park because you have to ask the community. This is a local self-government, not a corrupt official sitting in a district or district center, drawing up a budget. It's not local self-government. Similarly, it should be understood that, yes, decentralization is good. And budgetary, economic issues need to be passed on. But we cannot pass on questions that, in our view, should lie within the exclusive authority of the State. This is a question, for example, language, which can only be solved at a national level. It's a question of what education should be and what should be in the textbooks, what's the historical paradigm. These should be questions that actually relate to the power structures. These questions are by no means to be passed on. And then when we do a literate decentralisation of power, when we actually do a real reality in Ukraine of local self-government and elements of direct government and the real impact of the community on the situation in our areas and cities, then we can really say that we've done our job and we've actually created a system that meets European standards and what we want. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u121	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech to Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich. I'm asking you to prepare Vododa Eugene Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I think in a case as delicate as the Constitution, we had to define ourselves in two positions. First, who writes the Constitution, who forms it, and who approves it. And I think we're making a traditional mistake because the government and the Supreme Council have taken responsibility for the first, second and third functions. I am convinced that it is the Constitution of Ukrainian society. If we invited experts and sociologists right now, they would give you the answer to all the questions that you're talking about, what are the topics that concern Ukrainian society the most and what is the solution in the form of Ukrainian society. I can tell you that Ukrainian society doesn't care what the prime minister's mandate is for both the President and the Supreme Council. Ukrainian society is concerned when an independent and non-corruption court is held. Ukrainian society is concerned that when local self - government is available, local councils and city heads will be able to finance education, health care, roads, and roads, and that parents do not repair kindergartens and schools and pay for hospitals and that they do so at the expense of local communities. And at the district and district levels, coordination is needed to solve inter-regional problems. That's actually everything that's relevant, which is of interest to Ukrainian society. If you want to hear the answer to the question of language from society, I'll tell you how it sees it. We have almost half of society holding on to those that should be one national Ukrainian and almost half of society now thinks that there should be two national languages. If we take one logic or another, there will only be conflict in Ukrainian society. So I think that the standard is constitutional about the national Ukrainian and free development of Russian, it's good, it just has to be written that we understand the free development of Russian, how we're going to warn Russian in those regions that are relevant. And that's why one trend and the other is conflict. And that's how you can go about every question and look for answers. Therefore, it is not for the government to present a Constitution that we do not see and not even the Supreme Council. Lawyers, experts of experts, should write to whom we have assigned a task through Ukrainian society, and we should agree on a political level. Because then we'll go three degrees of legitimacy: social legitimacy, political legitimacy and legal legitimacy. And we want to write the new Constitution in the old ways. We won't be able to do that in the old ways. Just as the book says, and as normal, civilized countries do. Because if we're going to write the Constitution, as they want to do now, the success of this constitution is going to be about what is the success of the anti-terrorist operation that our authorities are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u123	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the Dnipropetrov district council of Udodu Eugen Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u124	Udod Eugene Grigorovich, head of the Dnipropetrov District Council, head of the Regional Development Commission of the Association of District and Regional Councils. Our goal is the efforts of all communities to preserve Ukraine's unity. For 17 years, the Association of Chiefs of Regional and Regional Councils has advocated reforming the 1996 territorial organization system established by the Constitution of Ukraine, which has demonstrated its inefficiencies through excessive centralization of governance and resources. Our association therefore supports the immediate reform of the system. We talked to areas, areas, villages. And we have a question of both the general and the principle character. Article 118 and 119 of chapter six: "Executive authority is exercised by the heads of state representation" and "Executive authority is exercised by the executive bodies of the respective local councils." We have a question: where is the representative, and where is the executive? They are also subject to clarification and execution of decisions by the representative authority. The fundamental issues are: this is article 142 of chapter eleven, which is the material and financial basis of local self-government. The management and use of property and resources, as well as the establishment of a minimum percentage of taxes, congregations, and compulsory payments. According to 141 articles on the area and the area, we feel that we need to introduce circuit heads and district heads as if we were in communities before self - government. Enter them by secret ballot to all residents of the respective territories. With respect to Chapter XV. We certainly have a number of suggestions that need our discussion. It's also a self-serving humanitarian policy, it's also a consolidation of the election of the judges of the first institutions, it's agreement with the local self-government of the heads of state. After this meeting, we will also meet with the management of the association of district councils and district councils and cities and that we will discuss all the issues of other associations and specific proposals from Ukraine’s local self - government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u125	Thank you. The word is given to Philippe Victor Petrovich. Get ready for Screeching Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u126	Honorable colleagues, citizens, experts! The situation that is now taking place in Ukraine reminds me of 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed. The maximum centralization of power was then in Moscow. The hand of Moscow was everywhere. Accordingly, the territories did not agree with the policy of the Soviet Union. We may not have realized the experience of the Soviet Union and the centralization that has been particularly in recent years in Ukraine has also led to a degree of territorial rebellion. At the same time, this rebellion is in both the West and the East. It is very good that the Prime Minister raised the issue of the balance of power and, in particular, the balance of power, the distribution of power between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary. But I think the main and main problem of the country is that there is no balance of power between the center and the territory. From my point of view, what should be noted in the new Constitution and what should be noted. The Constitution should clearly stipulate the authority of local self - government authorities, and their functions should be more detailed in legislation. Rural, village, city councils should be given the widest authority. They should exercise authority as an essential part of public rights under their own responsibility. All municipalities must have the same rights and obligations. The need for a clear delimitation of the authority of the local authorities and delegated authorities is vested in them by the executive authorities. The regional and council areas are defined in the Constitution of Ukraine as local self-government bodies, but they are not the same in the sense of the European Charter of Local Self-Government because they do not have their own executive bodies to be created solely by them and to be controlled by them. I believe that the heads of the district, district, district councils should be elected by the citizens of the elections, not by the deputies of the respective councils. We should clearly establish a clear delimitation of powers according to the principle of subsidiarity. Decisions should be made at the lowest possible level, and top management chains should be used only if these actions are more effective than the corresponding actions of the bottom chains. Expanding the authority of local self-government to plan and improve the development and use of land resources. Each local authority should have its own budget. In doing so, the Constitution must recognize the statutory right of local self-government authorities to their own tax resources. And considering there's no time, it's the last. As a member of both the district and city council and associated with politics in Kiev, I believe that we should probably consider strengthening the special status of Kiev and returning.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u127	Let me finish, half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u128	Perhaps even a return through the Constitution of District Councils in Kiev. Why? Here's an example. In the Kyiv region, where more than two million people live, there are 11,000 members of the local level, different levels of the local MPs. In Kiev, 120 deputies are practically three million. Deputies are unable to communicate, carry out assignments, and influence events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word is given to Vasil Scripniczuk, the head of the Ivano-Frankov District Council. I can't see. There's no head, even though he wrote a statement. I then, dear fellows, invite you to the rostrum of the National Deputy Orphan Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please. Please prepare for Yavorovsky Volodymyr Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u130	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Dear ones present at the hearings, those who remain! Our nation’s right to sovereignty, independence, is written in the blood of our predecessors, a generation of Ukrainians who chose this independence. And this does not require any further legalization. Just as we will never agree to write the Constitution under the barrels of a toll machine, taking into account Putin's ultimatums. The Constitution must rely on the needs and tasks of our nation. And most of all, what we need to talk about in the constitutional process is the change, not in the text of the Basic Law, but in his spirit. Unfortunately, we are still living in a post - Soviet post - Soviet state. In a country that has shown its inefficiency precisely because it is pierced by Soviet heritage. And when there was external aggression over Ukraine, that inability was openly manifested. Our officials have found that they know bribes and do not know effective anti - crisis solutions. The militia prefers to cover up criminals, not to protect peaceful residents. Therefore, a fundamental change is needed in the entire system, not just the copying of constitutional texts. We need to talk about the creation of a new system of government, a new system of local self - government, a new system of law enforcement, a new army. In changing existing structures, we can't change the state. An example of this is the attempt to transform internal forces into the National Guard. Have we created a qualitatively new military formation? Unfortunately, the answer is no. It's about constitutional change. One of the most important obligations of the State and every citizen is to protect the Fatherland. Recent events show that only an armed and prepared nation can be confidently protected. This principle must therefore be laid down in the Constitution. Our army must be universal. At present, the Ukrainian Constitution in article 65 merely notes the existence of a citizen’s obligation to protect Ukraine’s homeland, independence, and territorial integrity, honoring its national symbols, applying the principle of its implementation to the sphere of law. We need to radically change our approach to forming and providing an army, to start creating a new army. The key principle of which should be the participation of every eligible citizen in the defense of our common homeland. After all, the armed nation is invincible. For comparison. The Constitution of Switzerland, which has not fought for 200 years, explicitly states that every man with citizenship is obliged to carry on military service. The Law provides for alternative service that replaces military service. Swiss women can serve in the army on a voluntary basis. The second is that today’s events show that Ukrainian citizens are not always able to count on legal protection. Law enforcement often stands ready to carry out criminal orders or to ignore justice. Therefore, it is simply necessary to grant a citizen the right to self-defence. An armed nation is a guarantee not only from external aggression but also from the internal injustice of usurpation of power. Therefore, the Constitution must give citizens the right to own arms for self - defense. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u131	Thank you. The word is given to Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. Please prepare Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, our constituencies throughout Ukraine! I remember that night, especially that morning, when we went up those stairs when the first Ukrainian Constitution was adopted, and we had two presidents with us: Kravczuk – ex and active – Kuchma. And then we thought that with the Constitution, the Ukrainian Constitution, everything started a whole new stage in our lives. Everything is going to come together very differently, very quickly, Ukraine is going to come out of this swamp, having, once again, the Constitution. Who was then assigned the title and the best in Europe, and the perfect one, and so on. But then there was the first critical situation with the third round of elections, and Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, who is no longer there, seemed to be his initiative, if I'm not mistaken. We began to change the Constitution to the situation that had arisen. They jumped out of this situation, picked Yanukovic, took Yanukovitch, took him away from the Constitution, and instead accepted the one he was comfortable with. So we've always accepted our Constitutions as a compromise. And here I think, six months ago, in this room, in Ukrainian society, there was talk about the need to increase the authority of local authorities? They were, but not at the state level, but, yes, among themselves. Indeed, we were aware of that. What is particularly important is to change the budget system so that the budget moves up below to stay there in the root system of those who make that money. That's where the main array will stay. Because, really on whose requirement today, let's be honest, are we going to these compromises? In the same regions as they say today, "Kiev can't hear us." Yeah, sorry, but there was your president, who, by the way, you pushed him over here and you chose him, and now you'd even have to be responsible for him, that he ran away like the last bug, give it to me, from the station, and all that. It's not good to hear them. So what was not heard when Yanukovich said "I'll hear every one." And he was deaf, he didn't hear any Merkel, no one, no Obama, no one. As a result, we will need to be very careful about this. Yes, indeed, we should increase the authority of local councils, give them more money to avoid going to Kiev to beat officials. And to the state-wide, federal level, it's only the money that we're going to support the army, diplomacy, national problems there and so forth. But once again, we can't be wrong. You'll see what passions there will be in this room when we start adopting the Constitution. As they will require political independence, that is what we should fear. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u133	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u134	I'm done, I'm done. I am convinced that the Constitution will adopt a new Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u135	Thank you. The word is given to Irina Heratchenko. Please prepare for Sergey Greeneweck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u136	Dear voters, the position of the strike party is the next, in no case can the Constitution of Ukraine be written in the euphoria of the presidential elections, when the position of political parties and factions is determined solely by the ratings of their candidates for the presidential election. And we have to be honest to say that by May 25, the draft of the Constitution is not real. But the question arises, why does the Ukrainian Parliament today not strengthen the existing Constitution with the necessary constitutional laws? In particular, why don't we take the second reading to the session room, for example, the Prosecutor's Office Act, which is absolutely necessary? Why, when we talk about decentralization, do we not take into account the need to adopt the Budget Code, the Tax Code, the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on State Administrations? And this is going to be a significant decentralization of power. Similarly, it is important to take into account that today, during the electoral campaign, where speculation around sensitive and important issues, such as language issues, such as the question of central and regional dependence, is greatly enhanced. We have no right to write the Constitution under the guns of separatists and under the dictatorship of the Kremlin. Obviously, this should be exclusively the Ukrainian Constitution, written by experts and Ukrainian politicians. And honestly, of course, decentralization is necessary. But nowhere in the world, only that does not depend on the efficiency of government rule. In fact, to strengthen the state, perhaps on account of the responsibility of power and responsibility of elites, because we have both in Parliament and in government and in places that have been represented by extremely powerful politicians, will first associate their work with the service of Ukraine, not to work in the fifth column, which today is tearing Ukraine apart. And for starters, the same must be done with the existing Constitution. Isn't it a wonder that today, in this electoral period, speculation around the subject of the referendum is intensifying? Although the existing Constitution clearly defines who can appoint a referendum and which issues. This can only be done by the President of Ukraine or by the Parliament on matters of preserving the territorial integrity of the State. And in fact, when such questions arise today, it speaks only of one thing that today’s elites do not intend to carry out and honor the existing Constitution. So the strike party is set up to work on a new draft Constitution, to make proposals, to support decentralization, first and foremost on the Europeanity of our future new constitution, but we also firmly oppose tearing up the center and the region and weakening the center. Because a strong state is a strong center, strong regions, and obviously we are against taking into the future President the powers that the Constitution gives him through the national elections and the Ukrainian people. In particular, to weaken it in matters of the sovereignty of the state and the definition of foreign policy. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u137	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u138	Which today has spoken from the government, obviously we won't support. In fact, we think that the work on the Constitution on the new project should be completed this year, but it should be a draft Constitution that is not as selective as it was in 2004 and what then led to the questionable drags of spaghetti between branches of power, and it should be one that would work to strengthen Ukraine as a single unitary state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u139	Thank you. Please be prepared for the speech of the Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, and please be prepared by the People's Deputy Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u140	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! The adoption of changes to the Constitution makes sense only if it is respected unconditionally because the negative practice, when law is one for all and lawlessness for the chosen can cause a new wave of discontent and mass protests. The Ukrainian constitutional tradition is considered to be the primary source of the Constitution of Philip Orlik. But few remember what is written in it, so I want to remind them of one of its theses. I quote. "But most of all, for the poor, they are subjected to oppression and extortion and are burdened by self-sufficient bribes, which, not for their own sakes, but because of their insatiable greed, seek to get into the government and the military and cohabited for their wealth. They tempt the heart of the Hehtman, and through corruption without full selection and in violation of justice and law, whether governments and the colonels break in, or embrace other positions, so it is definitively decided that no high-powered hetman shall be tempted by the greatest gifts and respects, no one shall be bribed in the governments of the colonels or other military or generalities, nor shall he give and forcefully appoint to the government." End of quote. It seems that these words were written not 303 years ago, but today, because the system of quota allocations and political corruption continue to be the main sources of governance at the top. Obviously, the new constitution should be the result of political compromise. The important thing is that this is not another compromise of elites, read oligarchs, about how to better divide positions and ensure access to public resources. The basic Law should contribute to the emergence of a national idea, for today the people are united only in revenge for the plundering and insolent humiliation of the country and of the people. We need, on the one hand, a new balance between the executive and the legislative, on the other hand, a smart combination of decentralization and the preservation of Ukraine's only political and economic space. There is a consensus on the need to establish executive committees for district and district councils in expanding the authority of local self - government. But there is a dispute as to how the head of the executive committee should be chosen. Opinions are divided, some believe that it should be chosen by popular vote, others by councils from the number of deputies. Each of these options carries certain risks and potential conflicts. However, the most acceptable choice among the population is to elect the heads of the district and district by popular vote. Another thing that needs to be created is a reliable mechanism of interaction between the government and the local councils, new methods of monitoring compliance with current legislation and the execution of delegated powers and ensuring their funding, applying new principles of financial auditing. Expanding the authority of local self - government requires solving a number of issues. But the main thing is to listen to the recommendations of the Centre for Expertise on Reforms of the Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe on the prospects for administrative and development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u141	Thank you. The word is given to Opanaschenka Mikhail Volodymirovich. Please be prepared for the Horseman of Oleg Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u142	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! I believe that today the issue of reform is a matter of peace in Ukraine and today the powers that we can give to local communities, to local councils, is the way to resolve this conflict issue. Now, in Ukraine, the east goes to capture the organs of the state, the citizens die, they are paralyzed. Economically paralyzed enterprises. A lot of people don't work. So today we should have considered a solution plan for this situation. Unfortunately, we cannot have a clear plan that would be given to all in this room. I believe that the first question to be asked is the question of the authority and authority of the people, the implementation of this issue, namely the holding of local referendums, the provision of referendums to local councils and citizens at the level of areas for the abolition or adoption of bills. I think it's one of the more important questions and the questions that are now in the East about conflict resolution, I think to stop what's going on there, it should have been in the hall today and looked at, and looked at, and even accepted. So one of the main issues I'm going to stress is giving citizens authority at the local level by way of referendum to abolish laws and enact laws. This will be the authority of the people. If the law contradicts and is not adopted more than, say, a fifth of the areas, why is such a law necessary? Citizens should have authority over its abolition. Otherly, there was a big mistake in the past of the President and in power, it was the gathering of power in one hand. It is not only authority in one hand but also responsibility in one hand. So I don't think we need to decentralize the budgets that we've heard, but we need to decentralize the government. And in order for the district manager to call him executive or governor, he chose the people, not the council, it would be important. If this leader manages more than 50 percent of the population, there will be no indignation at his actions, and without his appointment, he has not received instructions from above. So is this militia captain. If someone is not satisfied with the minister, people should be able to choose him at a certain technical level. And it's a matter of peace, it shouldn't be discussed. If people choose it and it becomes the authority and the person voted for it, it will calm the situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u143	Thank you. The word is given to the Horseman, Oleg Leonidovich. Please prepare Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u144	Thank you, Mr. Head. Oleg Kanovets, Citizens' Positions Party. It's a pity that there are so few fellow MPs, guests and guests in the session room. I see the only reason why this is here is because the government has abandoned these hearings. And all I want to do is thank Vladimir Groissman, Vice Prime Minister, who awaits the conclusion of these hearings. What are we meeting for today? Key words: "Constitution," "decentralisation," "referendum." I was very impressed by Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk's speech, who said we were obliged to sign the draft Constitution by May 25th. I was also impressed by his statement that the Constitution needed to be amended so that the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs could submit the Prime Minister in agreement with the President. So when there's a parliamentary-presidential republic and a coalition is forming a government, it turns out that the guarantor of the territorial integrity of our territory is who? A coalition that can change at any time. So I am a firm opponent of this novel, and I believe that territorial integrity should be guaranteed exclusively by the President of the State. And the Secretary of Defense, the Minister of External Relations, should be presented solely by the President. With respect to decentralization. Ladies and gentlemen, I support Irina Heratchenko's statement: for two months now, the government has been able to submit to this session hall a package of laws that significantly decentralizes today's relations between regions and the center. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Vladimir Borisovich Groysman to hand over to the government where the draft budget code that Julia Timoshenko, future Prime Minister, was still passing? He was wonderful! Who then made this dedication? Victor Yushchenko. It can be brought into the session room today, perhaps corrected. Where are the draft amendments to the tax code? Where are the changes to the Local Self-Government Act, the State Administrations? In order to strengthen the process of decentralization. But, Volodymyr Borisovich, as a professional vice-premier, I want to say, look at the important aspect of the State Regional Development Fund. This fund's work is decentralization. And unfortunately, I fought for a year and a half as the head of the subcommittee with the previous government of Azarov to get this fund to work and this government, and first of all, the minister of finance, didn't listen to my proposals and cut this fund by 2 billion. This is real decentralization. And about the referendum. If we're going to question people, we need to talk about plebiscite right now. And I took the initiative two weeks ago. We need to ask people. What do we have?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u145	Please let me finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u146	What we have to put in order of the day's referendum, not by asking people, but by forming the order of the day's referendum. Let's put 10-15 questions on the plebiscite that concern society, and on the entire Ukrainian plebiscite, when we get 50 plus 1, we'll figure out what questions society wants to answer in a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u147	The word is given to Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u148	Dearly Honourable Members of the Meeting! The focus in the reform process of the Constitution on the distribution of powers of the branches of government, has somehow been overlooked, as colleagues have already said, on the need for improvement in social and labour relations in society, the completion of full social insurance, particularly health insurance. That is, the constitutional protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, including living in a sovereign, independent, free and rich Ukraine. Following the adoption of the Constitution of an independent Ukraine in 1996, and following changes in 2004, many former labour laws should be re-examined with regard to the conditions of the rule of law. Appropriately, the Constitution was to be motivated by a new practice, a new practice of applying it. Unfortunately, this has not happened now. Thus, the main legislative act governing employment and related relations remains the Code of Laws on the work of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic since December 1971. It consisted of a preamble and 265 articles. During the years of independence, the changes have been made to 220 articles, 35 cancelled, and 20 made. Of the 18 chapters of the Labour Code, only 8 regulate their own social work relations. That's what the former country's "Working" Act is now. A law that does not protect a person’s constitutional right to work. And we have a contradiction today -- 2 articles of the Code of Labour Code in Ukraine and 43 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. In the context of substantial transformations of socio-economic principles, society's activities were inevitably needed to develop new labour laws. We've taken vacations, collective bargaining, social dialogue, employment, others. They played a positive role in regulating socio-working relationships, but they don't harmonize with the Labour Code. Because this document cannot work today when article 41 of the Constitution proclaims to the unbreakable the right of private property to the means of production, when a new subject of labour law, an organization of employers, changed the status of the professions, when market transformations brought into our lives phenomena that did not provide for the Labour Code: bankruptcy, debt of wages, moral responsibility, damage to the discovery of a commercial secret. In addition, we have ratified international legal instruments on labour issues. They must also be provided for in labour law. And the last paradox is that today's, future lawyers of law, the section of labour law, are studying on the basis of the 1971 KZOT! I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u149	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u150	I call on the government, which is constantly dissatisfied with the Labour Code, which has been introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies, to introduce its Labour Code so that we can put the social and labour relations at the level of the constitutional requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudzkowski insists on the performance. Let's listen to him. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! It seems to me that in order for us to adopt a balanced text of the Constitution, we need, not a government, but a constitutional commission to balance both the position and the role of the government and the President, the Parliament and other branches of power. Those suggestions that have been made, I think they need to be corrected. Today, we see, in view of the situation and the President's vacuum of power, that we must foresee in the Constitution sufficient powers of the President as head of state that could ensure stability, first and foremost, the protection of Ukraine as a whole state. This can only be done on one condition. When the President offers the Secretary of Defense. If we're saying that the President, as head of state, determines the course of internal and foreign policy, he should be able to offer a foreign minister. I don't want us to try to make a cranberry one way or the other, depending on who and when will take office as President. I also think it is unacceptable that we, once again, understand that the main requirement of Ukrainian citizens is to carry out constitutional reform in part of increasing the powers of the regions so that we can form executive committees so that we can transfer the funds from the central level to the places. This part of reforming the central authorities at this critical point is that we have to get rid of reform and do what people demand. So, in addition to that, we can vote in new changes to the inviolability, the removal of the inviolability of the people's deputies, the mechanism for recalling the people's MP, and, of course, the reduction in the number of the Supreme Council. I think it's a reasonable question, because even today we see that we are actually going to reduce the number of people who vote in the elections to the Supreme Council to 300 or 350 -- the composition of the Supreme Council. That'll be optimal. We need to come up with the questions that people are asking us, including language, social, and others. The Constitution should still answer people's questions, our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I have made it possible for me to speak to practically everyone who had such a desire. No one insists on the word? No, it's not. I'm asking Vladimir Groysman. Let's get out of here. Victor Mikhailovich, are you insisting on the performance? One minute, please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. And then Vladimir Groissman will be able to draw some conclusions on the observations that applied to the concept of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I don't want to speak at all on the subject of the Constitution. I'd like to emphasize procedural matters. I don't want to appreciate what happened today's discussion, I'm the only one who wants to welcome it. But I would like to point out that this is just the beginning of a conversation and perhaps not quite a success to be continued. Because even today’s discussion has shown very controversial statements and very often the opposite. And they need to be discussed separately. The main topic to be discussed is the ratio of the center to the region. We haven't found the answer to these questions yet. And here we have to have a very serious, perhaps separate conversation on this issue. When I heard that it was very important for us to ensure the independence of the judiciary, in my opinion, you would never provide it in the event that people would not choose their own judges. People themselves, citizens have to choose judges and the judge has to be accountable to the community. And I don't understand how, for example, you can form a team whose part is assigned to another person. Don't we see government as the only team? Cannot form the command from individual parts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u155	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u156	the question of responsibility for a problem to remove a government, no outsider will. I've given you these examples for what it's for. I would think that we should continue to discuss the fundamental issues that we want to change to the draft Constitution. Bring in a wider circle, maybe put some one topic for discussion, because we're not going to get 25 numbers on a solution if we're not fundamentally discussing some issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Groissman, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u158	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, distinguished audiences. First, on behalf of the Ukrainian Government, I want to thank you for today's discussion, because it is very important to hear the feedback on the proposals we are making. But I'd like to point out, I've listened very carefully to the speakers, and about 80 percent of the people who have spoken support the concept and the approach that the government today formulates in part of the reform of the local self-government of decentralization of power. I just want to assure you that we are committed to this matter, and we want to do our utmost to ensure that every citizen has his or her share in the affairs that are taking place in their territory. As for the parallel steps that we're taking in the decentralization of power. I want to assure you that the government is working today to decentralize and dismantle those restrictions that have been imposed on local self-government, especially in the last period of time and in the area of budgetary legislation, and in the area of administrative services, we are working well today. In the development of these bills and these initiatives that we have put forward today, there will be a number of bills that relate to the success of the territorial communities, the formation of the financial foundations of the communities and their development, the unification of territorial communities, cooperation, and many issues related to local democracy. So a number of bills, a package that will allow us to make these changes as well as possible. I'd like to say one more thing. When it comes to eliminating government administrations as executive bodies, it is the establishment of executive committees at the district and district levels. And when today's speakers talk about what will lead to the country's balance, I don't agree with that, because we're proposing that this system work since the fall of 2015. We have time to bring our country into order and to do everything we can to ensure that peace and tranquillity prevail in every local community. So in the direction of fiscal policy for 2015 and you're going to see it, and you're going to look at it, we're already assuming that public taxes, their share already remained for 2015 in the local budgets of their own and their own, which will allow communities to become more independent financially and more effectively addressing the issues they have, roads, gardens, schools, hospitals or the formation of social space. I want to thank you again. I want to call for further discussion. We are open and open to our desires. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-29-m0.u159	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have discussed seriously enough the changes to the Constitution, the concept presented to us by the Cabinet of Ministers, the proposals that the head of the Temporary Special Commission has been talking about preparing constitutional changes. And I have to say that there were really radical, opposite, mutually exclusive proposals. But most of the talk, however, supports questions about strengthening local self - government, about those reforms of local self - government. Many of the speeches involved independence and dignity, chiefly our judicial system, those balances that should take place and be present in power. There is certainly a problem that many want to hear. Sadly, though, we do not want to hear others. And here I thank those national MPs, representatives of the local self-government, who have heard everyone. Because many of our colleagues have spoken, seen that they have been heard, and gone, without wanting to hear another position, another thought, and this is certainly a serious problem, not just for Parliament, because Parliament is the mirror of our society. Therefore, the honourable participants in our open session, all the suggestions that have been made here, are included in the transcripts of our session and will be carefully processed by the temporary special commission. And even after these projects have been processed, we will be able to come up with these proposals with you, I hope, in any event, to come up with a project that will have a concrete debate in Parliament, and which can already be discussed, I hope that in the future, we can vote on how the draft constitutional changes can be voted on. At the same time, it is very important for this to take place openly, publicly and I am addressing representatives of local self-government, the huge request for that problem, and the discussion that was here to move it into the region, so that at the level of urban, district, district council, there was still a discussion of these problems, which today is the center of the constitutional changes around which we were working today. I hope that they will work around them, working on the final version of the Temporary Special Commission. I'm asking the experts here, the scientists, the experts, the huge request in your expertise to process those proposals, to send them to a temporary special committee, to our parliament, taking into account the scientific evaluation, the scientific verification and the correction. I very much hope, my fellow Members, that we will have a result, certainly a very difficult result, and I would not be so optimistic about saying that Parliament is ready to make balanced changes to the Constitution is hard work. And at the same time, we have a guarantee of an effective outcome only if it happens publicly, it won't be cool. When we're really looking for consolidation not only here in the Supreme Council, but for consolidation in society as a whole. It's very important. I thank everyone for taking part in the work, but at the same time I am now addressing the deputies of the Supreme Council, I see not many of them left, at the same time, the honourable colleagues will be our holidays, we will have the days before May holidays, we very much want these May holidays to be held in our country, so that we provokers, terrorists will be the most localized, prevented, prevented from destabilizing the situation. On a calendar schedule, we have two weeks of Parliament's work to do. But we don't have that kind of prerogative, and we don't have that kind of opportunity not to work on the Supreme Council for that long. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, in order to implement the proposal that was being made here, including with regard to listening to our ministers of forces, the prosecutor's office, the Security Service, we certainly need to hold such a meeting. And I propose that it be held at 6 at 10 o'clock when our Parliament continues its work. What's more, I think that by now there will be an opportunity and conclusions, and some make adjustments, including working on important bills that the Supreme Council should adopt, not just speak and discuss. Thank you. Good-bye.
