ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council is continuing its work. We need to take a package of very important legislation with you. These questions relate to Ukraine’s acquisition of a visa-free regime with the European Union. And that's why I'm asking the secretariat to announce outside the hall that Parliament has started working and that all the deputies have been invited to the session room. Dear colleagues, in our first reading, we need to consider a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine relating to the activities of the Authorized Human Rights Council in the field of personal data protection. The bloc is also concerned with the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Prevention and Opposition to Discrimination. And also, I take it, the question on which we need to determine what we're talking about and on which we need to vote. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of the First Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilian Inna Ivanovna. And I'm asking the Supreme Council to support us so that we can do much more today to process legislation, and to support the proposal and consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal, I only ask everyone to vote and consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:02:52]] For 122 The decision is supported. Dear colleagues, we're working. Please, Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, you have before you a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine relating to the activities of the Authorized Human Rights Council in the field of personal data protection. I want to remind you that last year we passed an extremely important law that passed on the area of enforcement of personal data protection legislation to the Human Rights Council. This law, which is now before you, is designed to complete the issue of this reform. This is very important for us to do the first phase of visa liberalisation for Ukraine. It is proposed to determine that the Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights will extend to relations between legal persons of public law as well as between legal persons of private law and to protect the rights of natural persons in the field of their protection of personal data rights. Such addition will allow the Authorized One to effectively implement his human rights protection functions to the inviolability of private life. I would ask you, honourable national MPs, to support this bill, both in the first reading and in general, taking into account the fact that the decision of the committee to do so is supported in general, and there is also no reference to this bill from the Scientific and Experimental Administration, and it is very important that we bring our state closer to our citizens, to receiving a visa-free regime from the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up from the faction for the performance. Please, from the Sovereign European Ukraine, National Deputy Haydosh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u4	Istvan Highdosh, the Sovereign European Ukraine. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the adoption of this law in the area of strengthening personal data protection will bring our legislation much closer to European standards and standards. It is the Human Rights Commissioner who will have greater opportunities for action in this area. It is proposed to extend the Ombudsman’s activities to relations between legal persons and individuals in Ukraine. The draft law also proposes to regulate the institutional component in the field of personal data protection in the laws of Ukraine on the State Register of Voters, on the collection and accounting of the single contribution and the mandatory compulsory social insurance, on the Single State Democratic Register, and on documents supporting Ukrainian citizenship certifying a person or his or her special status. We will also continue to implement an action plan to break the visa regime from the EU. Our group supports this bill and therefore I ask the deputies to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Sabi of the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u6	Please give the floor to Deputy Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u7	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u8	Our faction supports this bill with the expectation that the situation will actually improve in the area of visa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u9	A brief but meaningful speech. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u10	Please pass the word to Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u11	Valery Paccan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, the UDA faction will support the bill. This is a bill that relates to the implementation of the first phase of the visa-free regime. There are technical remedies. I'm asking you to support me as far as technical training is concerned. So in the past law, we've done the functions that gave him the ability to regulate between legal persons, and now we're also giving him the ability to regulate functions between natural persons. And we place these functions on the Commissioner for Human Rights. I'm asking you for technical assistance. And Ukraine will bring the entire Ukrainian people, Ukrainian citizens, closer to the visa-free regime that is now very relevant and necessary for our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u13	Thank you. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u14	Alexander Valentinovich, he's asking very much for the words of Mikola Tomenko, and I can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u15	Please, Mikola Tomenko wants to come out of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! The bill is important in terms of two positions. The first position is that we are moving towards European standards of personal data protection work, and on the other hand, we are clearly defining a whole range of norms that allow the Authorized Human Rights to work especially with legal persons, to expand the scope of protection and interference in possible conflict situations, because it has not been able to do so before. Equally important is that a personal data processing procedure will finally be made, which is approved by appropriate amendments to the Act on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. But at the same time, Alexander Valentine's Day, I would like to say that we are aware that the status and significance of the Authorized Institute is increasing and, obviously, our European integration will increase further. And, apparently, when, perhaps, the next day after the war with Russia, do we have to gather and think about everything? Even so, this institution and the person representing this institution have worked properly and properly. Because in the days of Eromaydan and the acts of protest, I did not see the worthy role of the Commissioner at the time of beating and killing journalists, at a time when people were being destroyed, the voice was somehow lost by the Commissioner of Human Rights, and I would like him not to just sound loud, but to be the first in the chorus of those who are in pain for the protection of human rights and freedom. And the third position is very important -- here we're dealing with the subject of access to public information, and I want to remind you that the Supreme Council has taken a very important step by adopting a bill to expand the area of access to information, by amending the Information Act, where, I recall, we have clearly written down a whole range of new positions, including full access to general plans. I read that there our government is offering to unscramble the master plan. It is good that he wants to do so, but our law requires that we keep it a secret. Not one of the city’s heads wants someone who doesn’t want to, but it’s their job to sign the law. This is a position for mandatory publication at the request of a journalist or a citizen of the commission minutes and many things. In view of this, Alexander Valentinovich would ask that you, if possible, speed up the signing of the bill, because the public is concerned that this Act on the Extension of Areas of Access to Information becomes a valid law -- and democracy, and that the public activity of local authorities and all officials becomes even greater. The faction will support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, the faction of the "Regions", please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u18	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law proposes to determine that the operation of this law in cases provided for by law is also extended to the restoration of what arises between legal persons of public and private law and natural persons who reside in Ukraine. The draft law also proposes to regulate at the level of the law the concept of "consent of a personal data subject" by introducing a corresponding definition into the Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support the bill, and we ask the majority to vote in favour of the bill, but only with their cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u19	Thank you. I support the offer. People's MP Opanaschenko. And we'll make decisions. I've given everyone who wants a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u20	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, we have a lot of organizations that are doing legal checks on private property enterprises. And we also allow the Authorized One of Human Rights to do so. First of all, there's not enough in the Authorized Device to check out a lot of businesses. And secondly, you know, let's first give our businesses at least get on their feet from the knees that they're standing on. That's why I think it's unnecessary to give another institution a test of the enterprises of the legal private form of property. In our country, unfortunately, this is in favor of one person and is being used, and very much abuse. So I'd like to be very balanced about how to give someone else, you know, an entrance to a private enterprise. So I think that this bill needs to be finalized and limited to a list of circumstances that allow the Authorized to enter businesses. And in that way, I don't think we need to vote, but we need to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'll remind you that it's the first reading of the law. And to the second, we'll be able to work on it and clean up the problems that are in this law. So I'm going to ask the question not generally, colleagues, but I'm going to call your attention, but I'm going to take the law into my first reading. Dear National Deputies! Colleagues, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, please. Now we're going to make a very important decision. This is about ensuring Ukraine's visa-free regime for our citizens. I am convinced that there are no deputies who are opposed. Any deputies against the visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens? There are no such deputies. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm asking, even the Party of Regions said they would uphold this law. Please, Your Honor, sit on your seats, prepare for the vote, and support in the first reading the draft of Law 4551 on amending some of the laws of Ukraine relating to the activities of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of personal data protection. Please, Your Honor, support this law by voting. Please vote in the first reading. [[16:15:29]] For 243 Decision taken. Can't I see how much I have? The computer's gone. How many votes do you want? 243. Thank you. For 243, the technique, I'm sorry, it can't take the pressure. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that some people in general offer to accept or, nevertheless, no, they can't. Colleagues in general? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I see. As a whole, the request is to be determined by voting to support the general public. Please vote. [[16:16:20]] For 210 Unfortunately, for a total of 210, your colleagues are difficult to give. A., there was no Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yes, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we must re-vote. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich asks to repeat the vote because he spoke to the electorate and was unable to vote. Please, Your Honor, will you please come back and support me, and I'm going to check and we're going to re-vote or not? Please support the proposal to go back to voting on this law as a whole. Please vote back now, dear fellows, we'll see everything now. Please support the proposal and return to voting in general for this law. Please vote. [[16:17:24]] For 217 Dear colleagues, I will not push against the Supreme Council, so we have accepted it as a foundation. And the only thing I'm asking you to do is support the procedure. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u22	There's no short-circuit procedure. Alexander Volodymyrovich, follow the reduced procedure, please. For the second reading, I don't mind you correct these suggestions. For a reduced procedure, your honor, I ask you to support a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please vote. Alexander Volodymyr, vote, please. [[16:18:04]] For 208 Colleagues! Well, I don't know! We do not want Ukrainian citizens to drive as fast as possible. 208, no decision taken. By factions, please: The region's party is 4 everything. The Fatherland is 67. And the potential for more in the Party of Regions is 67, 26, 26 is Economic Development, 26 is Sovereign Ukraine 26. One day they made a deal, three factions. "Freedom" is 34.0. Dear colleagues, I repeat, I will not push against the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council has been determined not to rush into this matter, so we will not rush. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Why do you think the Supreme Council is going to be out of work for three weeks? Why do you think that? That's the wrong idea. I think the MPs are going to keep working on the holidays. Dear colleagues, come on. Alexander. All right, that's it. Thank you. Let us turn to the next question, 4581, the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to prevent and combat discrimination). Please, the first deputy to Minustu Jemelyanova Inna Ivanovna, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u23	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Thank you for your support in the first reading of the recently voted law on the protection of personal data. And we very much expect that the Supreme Council will soon accept it on first reading and once again take a step and bring us closer to the first phase of visa liberalisation. The bill that I'm about to report is also on the road to visa liberalisation, and it's one of the last three laws, the Personal Data Protection Act, the Prevention and Anti-Discrimination Act and the Further Development of Anti-Corruption Act, all three of them are extremely important to us so that Ukraine can move to the second phase of the action plan. And phase two is implementation. What's the bill that I'm about to report on? First, it amends the Prevention and Anti-Discrimination Act. In which part: the term "discrimination," "direct" and "direct" discrimination, is defined; there is a particular form, such as "declared intention" and "assistance in discrimination". The mandate of the Human Rights Council of Commissioners is expanded to include the decision-making process: whether or not there has been discrimination in one or the other, and to seek the protection of public interests when it comes to violations of rights, discrimination on certain grounds, not of an individual, but of a number, of groups of persons. In addition, it is proposed to amend the Civil Procedure Code, in particular article 60 of the Civil Procedure Code, which sets out on whom the burden of guilt, the argument that a discriminatory act is committed or failed. I would like to point out that the complainant must first state the facts that prove that he has been discriminated against. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill does not modify the Labour Code, which has previously caused much opposition in society and which has caused much of the same dissatisfaction in the deliberations of the Supreme Council. We are not now proposing this bill to amend the Labour Code and not to address the issue of sexual minorities, but to address only the issues that are urgently needed to date in order for Ukraine to move to the second stage of action. Thank you. Please support him in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u24	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I didn't put in a reduced procedure. We're going to be looking at it in a nutshell? Short cut. Come on, guys, let's support this proposal, and let's look at the reduced procedure. Two for, two against. Please support: for a reduced procedure. [[16:22:40]] For-170. Thank you. Decision taken. 170 for. I ask, Your Honor, that you please sign up for a reduced procedure of two "for", two "against". Whoever insists, I'll give you an extra chance to say. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! First of all, I'd like to say that we should call things our names. Presenting the previous personal data bill and the Authorized Supreme Council, and the First Deputy Minister of Justice, and Alexander Valentinovich, you kept talking about visa-free treatment. Do you understand why you shouldn't say that? Not just because it does not correspond to the reality of these bills, but because overexpectation leads to deeper disappointments. It's not about visa-free mode at all, my dear. This is about visa liberalisation. And these are completely different things. Moreover, when we say that we need some of the other bills in order to move from the first legislative phase to the second implementation phase, right, we are saying that this is the liberalisation of the visa regime from the EU. Can you tell the difference? A visa-free mode is when you don't have a visa. And liberalisation -- it's about certain categories, it's about multilingualism, it's about a longer term for being in one country or another. Well, in closing this point, once again, I'm going to say that higher expectations give rise to deeper disappointments. Let's not let our citizens down. As far as I'm concerned, there's not much time for this bill. I have some comments. I just don't understand the next one. It says, "In the event that the complainant is quoted as confirming that there has been discrimination, the obligation to prove that the external requirements in this section are unfounded rests on the answer." What does that mean, reverend? It means I'm being accused of something, it's me, it's me, it means I'm being accused of something. And I have to prove that I'm not a camel. Where is the principle of innocence? I mean, the person who accuses me of something. It says here the facts are confirmed. Who are they confirming? In court? Then there is the question of why I have to prove, in violation of the principle of innocence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u26	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u27	To prove that I'm innocent. Why is the key principle of jurisprudence being violated here? Whoever claims to be me, let them prove that I'm guilty. And just one more moment. Another Ivanovna, aiding in discrimination any conscious help in making decisions, actions, inaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u28	Please, Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u29	I say professional things and you don't listen. I won't say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u30	I ask you, Your Honor, to the Deputy Minister of Justice, listen to the speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u31	Listen, please. Next. Another Ivanovna, aiding in discrimination is defined as any conscious help in making decisions, actions, actions that have caused discrimination. But right now, in article 4: the relationship between all legal persons is governed by public and private law as well as by natural persons. What does that mean? I'm a physical person. Someone next to me says he calls him in a way that's understandable. I'm not doing anything. Am I supposed to be responsible for this? Well, I'm sorry. On the street, I'm a natural person, and I shouldn't be accused of being called by someone at a tram stop by someone else by certain words that define discriminatory things. I don't know, maybe on the first reading, for how, Alexander Valentine's Day, you say it's very necessary. Although once again, it's liberalisation, not visa-free mode. These are different things. We can vote, but we have to work very hard on the second reading so we don't make a fool of ourselves, you know what we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u32	Thank you. Please, the national deputy Fedoruk gives the floor to the national deputy Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill, because we consistently support those laws that protect human rights and that bring us closer to Europe. Moreover, I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice, which, together with the Human Rights Committee, has passed this bill and has created the opportunity to vote for it today. I don't share the horrors that the previous speaker just gave us, but I want to pay attention and agree with him. It's really about changing the Civil Procedure Code, and here I want to agree with the previous reporter. Let us pay attention to what we are offered. That in the case of the plaintiff’s allegations that discrimination had taken place, the obligation to prove that these claims were unfounded would lie with the defendants. This really means that a disgruntled employee, for example, can bring his superior to justice. And this will have to prove to the chief in court that he did not discriminate against his employee. And we're talking about Ukrainian courts, where until recently, for example, in criminal proceedings, only 0.16 cases were decided for the benefit of those who had been charged. I think, unfortunately, in our system, that's the norm they're going to abuse. And it seems to me that if we are to vote in favour of the law in general, this rule should not be there. But in general, I want to say that this is a very necessary bill. I want to say right away and remove all possible speculation. We know that this question had been pushed into this room before because we were afraid that it would almost pave the way for the legalization of same-sex marriages and other things. There is nothing in this bill about sexual orientation, about sexual minorities, or about other things that are feared by propagandists in other countries. It is a law that makes and makes each of us feel free to feel free in this country. So we'll support, I urge you to support the entire session room. This is a law that draws us closer to a visa-free regime that draws us closer to Europe and is a manifestation of the changes that are now taking place in the country and that are awaiting all our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need more speeches? Yes, Leonov, National MP, Freedom, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u35	Please give the floor to the national deputy Oleg Pankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u36	Please, National Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u37	Oleg Pankevitch, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, our faction clearly advocates that Ukrainians can move freely to ensure that their rights are guaranteed. And this natural right of Ukrainians today is clearly being violated. And we don't need to adopt laws, additional laws to remove today's huge bureaucratic burden that Ukrainians face when they apply for visas when they try to go abroad or for work or for rest or for training. I emphasize that there is no need to change the laws and laws today and that the consulates should adopt very many different rules that would create real discrimination against Ukrainian citizens. And it needs to be done, including today’s authorities, and it has to be done earlier. With regard to the bill, of course, a number of very controversial points are deleted, but there are also a number of rules that violate the principles of jurisprudence, which have already been discussed today. In particular, article 60, “The Obligations of Evidence and the Submission of Evidence”. This article has already been mentioned. Well, there can be no situation when one part of society imposes a smaller part of society imposes its own rules on another part of society. This is not justice. And that's why we can't agree to that. And the next. Amendment to the Amendment of the Discrimination Act, including the position of discrimination. Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u38	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u39	I realize I don't have much time. So very, very short. So discrimination is a situation in which a person, by some indication, has a certain list of those signs, indicated whether or not he can observe restrictions in any form. I'll ask those who are interested to actually read this position. You know, in today's situation in Ukraine with Russian diversorators, I don't rule out that this article can be used for Russian, for example, divers who want to participate in the referendum and they will say and prove on the basis of, for example, this norm that they have the right to political views and so on and so forth. Society, I ask with understanding that the law requires further discussion, further improvement of the legal system. We can't vote in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Žuravsky. Please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, there are two positions. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the bill should be sent for further processing, and the Professional Committee should be based. The position of our Economic Development Group is to take as a basis. However, the expiration date should be changed. This law takes effect on 18 March 2014 to replace, I quote, “this law takes effect from the date of its publication”. Next. I'd like to say that this law is not about sexual orientation, gender equality, it's not about sexual orientation. I would therefore ask that the Freedom factions be at peace in this regard. The bill clearly distinguishes what discrimination a person who is discrimination against a person is, and there is a distinction between direct and indirect discrimination. In fact, this bill is drafted at the request of civil society, and it stands for the protection of human rights. The protection against discrimination is needed over all the citizens of Ukraine, not the citizens of the European Union and their officials. Once again, I will reiterate the position of our Economic Development Group -- to accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, we discussed the matter in principle. Are you insisting? Give the People's Deputies a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u43	National MP Opanaschenko, non-fractional. Dear colleagues, now and again, in the form of a package for visa-free mode simplification, many bills have been passed as criminal responsibility for legal persons, such as the notion of special confiscation, as the adoption of more stringent standards for business conduct. All of this is reflected in businesses, businesses, and people who want to create new jobs. In such difficult conditions for our economy, I think it's very balanced to refer to such a package of laws. And it was a very good practice to create interfractional groups that are preparing a package of laws on visa facilitation, and there, you know, all the rights and businesses and entrepreneurs are being investigated and all of these concepts are consistent with the EU requirements. So the proposal is to create this kind of group for more.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u44	Yes, thank you, I understand your offer. Dear colleagues, Minust will comment on the problems. One minute, please, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u45	I'd like to comment on just one question, what has caused the most attention is the changes to the Civil Procedure Code, namely: laying down, proving guilty, burdening, proving innocent. I would like to remind you now of the standards that exist in the Code of Administrative Judiciality for today, when wine relies on the official person of the authority of the KASU, such a principle has been in existence for many years now. And if we have citizens now complaining about action or inactivity, or the decision of an authority or an official, it is the authority or the official who must prove his innocence. In the same way, we are also invited by the European party to make changes to the protection of interests in the non-discrimination part. But at the same time, we wrote a more lenient standard because we are saying that the plaintiff should still give evidence to prove that he was actually discriminated against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to take as a basis in the first reading and to work on the second. Because we need to demonstrate to the European community that we want to do so in terms of European integration, the European perspective and, of course, the visa regime will be simplified and then cancelled. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support the vote, include the "Council" system to support this law in the first reading. Please vote 4581. Please vote, please support. [[16:37:46]] For 172 Unfortunately, 172, no decision is made. By factions, please: Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 71, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 26, Sovereign European Ukraine – 23, Freedom – 2, Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to show me where the Communists are sitting. We don't have any deputies. I. There is one. One! I'm asking one of the deputies to lock down. All other MPs from the Company don't close their salaries for today's business day. Because, excuse me, we have to respect our colleagues, they're out in the morning, and they're going to go get some rest. So please, the Secretariat, lock down! And then, please, it's about the absence of deputies in the hall that make decisions about their payroll. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have a third law from this package. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. This law was discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Dear national deputies, then discussions! Honourable National Deputies, 4556, Act amending certain legislative acts in the field of State anticorruption policy in connection with the implementation of the Plan of Action for Liberalization by the European Union of the Visa Regime for Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you remember that we discussed the matter, but we agreed that we would make a decision the next day. So, dear colleagues, I'm addressing you, everyone remembers the discussion? We didn't make a decision. That's why I'm asking now, my fellow Members, 4556, for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine. On the first reading, I ask Parliament to vote on the basis. Please vote, your honor, 4556 is the number of the law. On the basis of that, I ask you to support all the national MPs. [[16:40:08]] For 209 The factions, please. Regional Party - 0; 68 - Fatherland; 25 - Impact; 29 - Economic Development; Sovereign European Ukraine - 25; 34 - Freedom; Company - 0, non-fractional - 28. Dear colleagues! I'm going to the hall, well, that's a serious question. It's an anti-corruption policy. It was an offer to take as a basis. And we don't want to do any anti-corruption issues, we don't want to ensure that the visa regime is simplified for Ukrainian citizens. Please turn on the microphone for the People’s Deputy. All deputies, please come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u47	Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina. I spent the last four days in Donbas, Kharkish and Luhansk. I want to say that the inhabitants of this region gave a big welcome to the Party of the Regions and reminded them that all their elections, as well as the election of their President Yanukovic, as well as the Communist Party of Ukraine, were under way to fight corruption and the return of the nation. Now we see two zeros on the board. Two zeros that mean that these two political forces are actually sabotaging anti-corruption processes in the country. They are again trying to turn the country into a corrupt source, to preserve the power of those who robbed the Ukrainian people, who, at the expense of the miners, stole the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! I beg of you, National Deputy Laszko, one minute. Colleagues, one minute and let's make a decision. I ask you to make a proposal on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! As long as you can't get together and vote for Ukrainians to go to Europe without a car, to Donetsk from the district administration's premises, toss, toss, toss, toss Herb Ukraine! I'm asking the security forces to lock down. Hands to the one who tore up the Herb of Ukraine. To those who trample on our flag to scrape their feet. That's how much we're going to be allowed to abuse to make the state symbols of Ukraine: Herb, the Flag is to break the trample, destroy. People are beaten for speaking Ukrainian. I ask, is there power in Ukraine or not? Is there a parliament in Ukraine or not? For whom do we adopt laws to increase responsibility when the coat of arms, flag, national, of our Ukrainian State is destroyed in the eyes of the world? I demand decisive radical action against terrorists! Otherwise, the people themselves will bring them into contact.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a draft law that we need to adopt. I'm talking to the parliamentarians. Please turn on Mikoli Catherinechuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u51	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this is the first bill that will allow us to move from visa liberalisation to the absence of visas for Ukrainian citizens who will still travel to the countries of the European Union. Now all issues related to the so - called sex minorities and same - sex flaws that were not there have been removed, but in principle these decisions have been made. So that's the offer. Back to this bill, put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I did not realize that this was not a question at all. Mikolo Dmitrovic, we are talking about anti-corruption policy in connection with the implementation of the Liberalisation Action Plan by the European Union of Visas. It's an anti-corruption policy, it's a little different. Please, Opanaschenka, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head and citizens of Ukraine! A very important question about visa facilitation, a very important issue about combating corruption. But in this bill, again, I'm going to repeat, there's also criminal responsibility for jurosibs, there's the creation of services in the private sector of corruption services. And, you know, that cheese that we see, it could be in the mouse trap. So once again, I propose to create all the laws that are so important to us, a group of deputies from different factions who will work and deliver a package in one or two days to make us adopt these laws that are important to the country. Because, you know, to adopt as a basis and as a whole a law that can put businesses and entrepreneurs on their knees that create jobs and are the only source of budget filling, I think it's very balanced to have to deal with these issues. And a group like that needs to be set up to pass a series of bills on visa-free mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u54	My fellow Members, these bills are in different directions and so the different committees are preparing them, the committees of profile, we have enough expert committees. I'm asking you to include a microphone of the head of the Committee on Anti-Criminality and Corruption of Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. Please, Victor Vasilovich, comment on the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you very carefully to adopt this law. First of all, I want to tell those colleagues who are talking about establishing some legal responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, it's been installed since May of last year. In this law (you hear, yes, Mr. Opanaschenko, excuse me) it has been established since May of last year, this law imposes only liability and sanctions on legal persons. Moreover, these sanctions are normalized in part of their reduction or variation to improper benefits. I would like to say that this law is very important to the implementation of the visa liberalisation plan. Moreover, my fellow Ukrainians, I would like to say that all of us see corruption as a matter of number one in the country. 63 percent of citizens believe that once corruption is overcome, something can be said. I'm sorry, but the non-admission of this bill, I'm just saying, is just going to have to publish the names of all the MPs who haven't voted or voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u57	In order for people to know very clearly who are against the real fight against corruption, who are against the real fight against corruption, and who does not want Ukrainian citizens to go to European countries without a visa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, there is an offer, there is no other proposal, to return on the basis of this law. Dear colleagues, well, that's what we have to do. Deputy Bondar, turn on the microphone and we'll vote. And Rudzkowski must. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u59	Dear colleagues! We're really approaching the point where Ukraine and Ukrainians can get visa-free. In June? For months we await the signing of the Eurocontrol Programme on the Open Sky. These are Ukrainian airlines, Europeans will fly all over Ukraine, and with a visa-free regime, our citizens from Eastern Ukraine can go to Europe and see for themselves what's going on. I'm asking you, let's really support these bills. What do you think you're doing? Gather around, draw up all the deputies that are here today. See how many do not vote from coalition factions. You can't do that. Think for yourself. That's why I'm going to the faction leaders -- raise the MPs and secure 100 percent vote. There are 14 people in Fatherland, 5 people in there, 5 people in there. We really need to start voting. Three fine laws. And now we need backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u60	Thank you for the constructive offer. National MP Rudzkowski and we will be determined. I ask you to announce once again that all deputies enter the hall. Colleagues! We make the right decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Last week, I had a meeting with the Polish Parliament and the Austrian Parliament. They said that today there is an absolute possibility that if Ukraine fulfils all the conditions, we would have a visa-free entry for all Ukrainian citizens by the time of the new year. But they ask the question that you show at least a movement on your part. Adopting anti-corruption laws is a primary task for us. We need to make a more open society and a more honest society, so that we can get our income from the budget. The Europeans want to help us. They exert pressure because they understand that the level of corruption is such that corruption blocks the adoption of such laws in Parliament. Deputies! Don't work for corrupters!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u62	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues! All the suggestions are about going back to that question. I beg you, Your Honor, Igor Mironovich, please don't vote for the faction without you. Please, Your Honor, please sit down and support the offer to return to this issue, 4556: anti-corruption policy and visa liberalisation. Please, 4556. Please, Your Honor, vote back on this matter. It's very important! Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:50:42]] For 231 Decision taken. Until they break up, I immediately put to the vote: to adopt the law as a basis, on the basis, of fellow believers. Please be supportive. By the time it's gone, let's go. [[16:51:04]] For 228 Decision taken. Please turn on the microphone for Puckan’s national MP. I'm asking you, colleagues, don't break up! Very important now, only now important questions begin!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u63	Dear fellows, dear Head! We have now passed two laws concerning the first queue, the first phase of the visa-free regime. Without the third law that has just been broken in the hall, they are worthless. I ask you to return to the vote and ask again the question of discrimination and accept it as a basis, and then the committee will make a commitment, work, remove all negative norms, and the law will be with those amendments that have now been highlighted by the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Please come back to do the first phase of the visa-free regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u64	Let us support the path to Europe. I'm addressing all the representatives, all the factions: let's support the path to Europe -- and let's go back to this law and just take it as a basis, just as a basis. Please, dear fellows, concentrate! I'm going to the Freedom faction: first reading as a basis, colleagues, as a basis. Hold on, this law won't pass without you. Dear colleagues, please support and return to this question. Please come back to this question, dear colleagues. [[16:52:50]] For-179 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 75, 31 – Impact, 21 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 27. I'm so sorry. Dear colleagues, very much. Dear colleagues, please, we're in the mood to work right now, I feel it. And when Freedom decides to support visa waiver, give me a signal, I'll go back to that question. Fellows, I would like to ask that we now adopt a few laws that only need to be made, and then we will consider on the first reading. While we're concentrating in the hall, I'm asking you to support this. But before making a decision on the issues under discussion, colleagues, attention, we have at our morning session during the talks several national deputies insisted that at this difficult time, we must make a decision at this difficult time regarding the leadership of the National Guard, which Parliament has created. And this was insisted, including Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, who is a high-level expert on the security of the state. I ask you very much, there was a proposal by the deputies to support the introduction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I support this introduction as the responsibilities for the appointment of Poltorick Stephen Timothyovich to the post. These were the suggestions. And I'm asking you, dear fellows, to support Nachwardia and let's make a decision, it's very important. Can I put in a vote? I can. 4485, to all of you, dear colleagues, let's help at this difficult time to have a legitimate leader in Nacgardia. Please support me. Please vote. On the basis and in general. Turn on the council. Don't slow down, turn on the "Race" system. [[16:55:14]] For 216 Dear colleagues! I say again, I don't understand the position. Dear colleagues! Well, really, it's a difficult situation. The factions, please. 2 – Party of regions, 66 – Fatherland. Fatherland, please mobilize. Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 23; 32 – Economic Development, 28 – Sovereign Ukraine, 35 – Freedom; 0 – Company. Dear colleagues! Can I ask you again? It's a personnel issue, it doesn't need to be reintegrated. Colleagues, please take your seats, please. Please, colleagues, come on, support the country in these difficult conditions, please. Please vote, all of you, to vote 4475 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:56:08]] For 223 The factions, please. 1 – Party of Regions, 69 – Fatherland, 24 – Impact, 32 – Economic Development, 30 – "European Sovereign Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 32. I'm asking you to follow the example of "Freedom"! They vote like clockwork, 35 and 35. Because everyone's going to a meeting. Dear colleagues! Colleagues! Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u65	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm calling the heads again, all the deputies are being mobilized. And I ask, Alexander Valentine's Day, to read not only who "yes" but those who did not vote. Because we have a number of deputies who are members of the coalition but who do not vote. And we are laughed at not only by those regional and communist MPs, but by the entire Ukrainian people. That we have a coalition, but at the same time we don't have enough votes. I ask everyone to mobilize and once again put to the vote an extremely important question. Ukraine is in danger today. This is a matter of protecting Ukraine’s national interests. I ask you again to put the matter to the vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the faction leaders. We are, indeed, in these circumstances. We're not gonna make it, we're gonna take it off in five minutes. We're going to shoot in five minutes. But once again, now, actually, the Nachwardia is in military conditions. And I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support the assignment. In the event of failure to perform the tasks that will be faced by Nazgwardia, we will take down the manager. But now I'm addressing everyone, including the Party of Regions. In these circumstances, I ask you to support the decision. Please vote. This is the last time I'm going to put this to a vote. Please, Your Honor, identify and support the draft Decree 4485. Please vote. [[16:58:45.]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, for insisting on this decision. And I think that in these circumstances, we need to take swift and decisive action, then we need others to act quickly and decisively as well. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the people's deputies, now we're all focused, we have the opportunity to vote. And we've made a decision with you to go back to the issues that we've discussed in order to give an effective vote. You remember that we discussed them on Wednesday, Friday, when there was a large absence of national deputies in the hall. And now I'm asking, I'm reminding you of the laws that we discussed last week and I'm asking you to support them. 4367 is a draft decree on overcoming the consequences of selective justice aimed at the political persecution of officials of government authorities in Ukraine. That's true of all, dear fellows. 4367 is a draft decree. Please accept as a whole. Please vote. [[17:00:04]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Regions, 78 – Fatherland, Impact – 28, 22 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 22.34 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, next question. It refers to (now, colleagues, when we go through another issue) the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Humanitarian Aid (remember this issue) on the activities of the Commission on Humanitarian Assistance in the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine (2623). To unlock the issue of humanitarian aid in order to remove corruption from this issue, clean up, more loyally. Understand? I see. Registration number 2623. On the foundation or on the whole? Based on the base. Let's base it, let's be in a mood, then let's vote in general. Please accept this project (registration number 2623). Please. Please, Your Honor, vote. All the churches thank you. [[17:01:22]] For-191 The decision is not taken. For the faction, please. 0 – Party of Regions, 66 – Fatherland, Impact – 1, 28 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, 34 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 32. Dear colleagues, I don't see the readiness to make decisions in this room right now. The following question is the draft Law (No. 2461) amending the Basic Law of Ukraine on health care in the field of prevention and treatment of rare (orphan) diseases. You remember that Vladimir Volodymyrovich Dudka reported this question. Please support the proposal to accept this project as a basis. There'll be a committee proposal, we'll take it as a whole. Put it on the ground, I'll see it in the voice. Please support me. Please vote. [[17:02:26]] For 273 Decision taken. There is a proposal for a profile committee as a whole to vote. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Dudka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u67	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, one technical correction. Since the law has long been registered, it stands in the final positions of its entry into force on January 1, 2014. The request is to replace the words "from the time of publication". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u68	Do you understand the offer? Got it. Dear colleagues, let us support the sick. The proposal is to uphold the law with the law that Vladimir Volodymyrovich announced. Please vote. [[17:03:26]] For 260 Decision taken. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, we have had short negotiations with members of the Strike and Fatherland factions, and we are ready to consider this problematic bill in the first reading, to vote for it if a number of articles, such as problematic article 60 and a series of articles and amendments to the Prevention of Discrimination Act, are removed during the preparation for the second reading. So we will support the discussion in the first reading today in preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u70	A constructive offer was understood. Please turn on Valery Vasilovich Puckan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, we propose to join a working group that will be set up on the committee, to all desirous deputies, in order to work out all the standards that will be at issue in this bill. This is article 60, article 57. But the law must be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u72	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, may I put to the vote to return to this question? I can. I ask all the MPs to support this issue so that we can have all three of the laws in the package reviewed and prepared for the second reading, and this will be a very serious signal for Europe. Please vote. Please support the proposal to return to Project 4581. Please vote on the return of this question. [[17:05:17]] For 228 Decision taken. Right away, your honors, as long as you give the hot bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Please vote 4581 as a basis. We're voting for Europe. Come on. [[17:05:40]] For 225 Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council is working to see who is not looking for a weak nervous system of work. Do you understand? Colleagues, let's not do the card, I understand it didn't work. I ask you again, I understand that you didn't hear the vote on the basis of the vote, I repeat to my colleagues, I realized that you didn't hear the vote on the basis. I repeat, my colleagues have not heard that as a basis, not as a whole, but as a basis. I'm going to repeat that this is a project we're taking as a basis, that is, in the first reading. Dear colleagues, this is visa liberalisation. This is a question in which millions of our citizens are interested, I very much ask, dear colleagues, don't miss it when you vote. Please, I haven't heard again. In general, and I said on the basis. So come on, I'm asking you for a base and once again for a stenographer as a basis. So this is the first reading. That means he'll be working on what the Freedom faction insisted. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first, so that he may be further worked out, I ask you for the basis of your support in the first reading. Please vote. [[17:07:05]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 81, Impact - 36, Economic Development - 29, Sovereign European Ukraine - 25, Freedom - 34, Company - 0, non-fractional - 29. Dear colleagues, thank you for taking the basis of all three plots. laws. I'm sorry, it's hard to talk like this. from the package we need to liberalize the visa regime with the European Union. And as for humanitarian aid, Valérie Mikhailovich asked for words to return to that question. Let me give him a minute, and let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for your word. As head of the committee, I would like to say, fellow officials, we have always had a standard that applies to the definition of humanitarian assistance through a committee at the Cabinet of Ministers, which includes all the authorities that administer the matter. And there really wasn't a corruption scheme back then. Now there's an option in today's version, with the backing of the past government, a corrupt mechanism has been built that has now collapsed completely humanitarian aid. So I'm asking you, I'm looking at the impact faction and other factions, to support us so that we can actually get humanitarian aid to Ukraine. And I want to say, a number of financial international institutions that are sending us financial aid said that the level of decision-making on this issue should be at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u74	Dear colleagues, of course. Ask Valery Mikhailovich to return to this question. Well, the strike faction denies it. Please turn on the microphone to the People’s Deputy Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, colleague Suškević may not have understood what had happened. Yes, indeed, the form of work with a humanitarian worker has been changed. But we're on the Committee on Social Policy and Work, this is our profile, and we've assigned the Minister of Social Policy and the work of Denis's Humane Leontiyev to work. Give her a month or two to three, and we'll see if this committee works at the Ministry or doesn't work. Just like that, like it or not, there's a suspicion that this is going to happen or not, we remember who the minister was then, and we remember that story about the cache, the feeding baskets, and so on. If this happens again, we'll come back. Today, you can work with a commission that works with the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. So far, there's no claim or complaint against a fellow MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I see it in the mood: I'm not ready for the Supreme Council to support this today. The strike faction denied, I can see more hands on objections. Come on, Valery Mikhailovich, then we'll work with the hall -- and then we'll make sure we don't burn it down. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy Sluz is still asking us to try again: five votes is not enough -- regarding draft Law 4367, the ruling, excuse me, to overcome the consequences of selective justice. Dear colleagues, please, let's give it a try, let's go back -- so let's vote, let's not go back -- then I won't put this project on. Please, 4367, Your Honor, let's go back to this question. Please identify yourself with the Supreme Council and support the proposal to return to this issue. Please vote. [[17:11:25]] For-187 No, unfortunately, 187. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we're moving on to our first reading. We have many laws to discuss. I suggest we deal with them in a reduced procedure. 4591: Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (to increase the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[17:12:05]] For 186 Decision taken. Please Deputy Finance Minister Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u77	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes to define the characteristics of the State budget relationship with the local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the budget of the city of Sevastopol, in particular to foresee that all taxes and congregations are included in the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This includes taxes that were included in the State Budget. A total of 59 types of income, including large taxes - VAT, income tax, excise duties, and rent payments. Next. From the Autonomous Republic of Crimea’s budget, the return is made by falsely and excessively paid tax and tax liabilities, as well as by budgetary compensation for the added value of entrepreneurial activities that are registered in the territory of Autonomy. Let's move on. For funding from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, all expenses incurred in areas other than the power structures are transferred. In addition, it is suggested that the consolidated local budgets will not be subject to a levelling mechanism, i.e. the local authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are making no expenditure within their revenues and the grant of compensation for funds transferred from the State budget is not foreseen. So we're going to go out on a zero budget transfer with this region. The Crimea budget will be balanced without deficit, according to our calculations. The state will not interfere with the development of the Crimea local budgets, the distribution of inter-budget transfers between the Autonomy budgets and the city budget of Sevastopol and the corresponding local budgets will be carried out in an order approved by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Such local budgets are now in Crimea 326. At the same time, has it been necessary to ensure that the new article 67-1 is reconciled with other Codex standards and standards? design technology, in particular in article 67-1, part one, we propose that the standardization be completed for the purposes of this article - in paragraph 1 to take into account the characteristics of the environmental tax in accordance with paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u79	In accordance with paragraph 5.1. of the Code, i.e. in full terms, in the amendments to article 29 (for income), amend to read "with respect to the features defined in article 67-1, paragraph 1, of the second section of the Code and to make appropriate clarifications to article 87 and paragraph 5-1 of section 6 of the Code. To establish the validity of the law from the day following its publication and to extend its application to the legal relations that arose on March 18 of this year. The bill was supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Budget Issues on March 27, 2014. Therefore, we offer to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for this. The committee head, is there a need to report? Please, National Deputy Geller.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u81	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the Government's Bill No. 4591 on amending the Budget Code. Given the demands of time and the urgency of resolving the relationship between the State budget and the budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, the committee supported the bill and adopted the following decision: recommending Bill No. 4591 to the Supreme Council on a basis and generally as a law. It should also be pointed out that this bill is systematically related to the Act of 27 March 2014 amending the State Budget, so its adoption is relevant and necessary in terms of the implementation of changes to the State Budget. Considering that the bill requires technical and legal and editorial amendments, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should adopt the relevant law when it is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, should make appropriate amendments to the text in compliance with the requirements of the regulatory technique. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u82	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for the speech: two in favour, two in favour. National MP Blackwill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u83	Dear friends, this is a very smart way out of this situation, so I think we should all vote for it. It is obvious that after that changes will be made to the budget. I regret that for the city of Kiev there is no such bill, it would be very good for the city and for its development. I remind you that the hole in the Kiev budget is 2 billion 900 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u85	Please give the floor to Yuri Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u86	Please turn on Yuri Mikhalchiin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u87	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Indeed, the bill is a forced response by the Supreme Council to the occupation by foreign aggressors of the Crimean Peninsula. The faction then supports the proposed principles of amending the Budget Code, according to which the expenditure and lending of local budgets are proposed to be made at the expense of the proceeds that will, in fact, be submitted to the local and republican budgets of temporarily occupied Crimean autonomy. In fact, all expenses will be incurred on the basis of how the comings will be distributed and, in fact, for criminals, there will be a good reason to reflect on the extent to which the occupying policy of the new power, which is connected with the Russian occupation, will reign in the position that the Ukrainian Parliament and the entire Ukrainian people now occupy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy Pisarenko gives the word to the People's Deputy Chechtov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u89	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law proposes to define the characteristics of the State budget relationship with the Autonomous Republic of Crimea budget and the budget of the city of Sevastopol. In particular, it is envisaged that all proceeds paid and counted in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol will be included in the full budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Allowing the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol's budget to be determined and credited within the limits of revenues without applying the compensation mechanism, which provides for the granting of grants, alignment or transfer of funds to the state budget. Regulation of inter-budget relations between the local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the order of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In doing so, the local budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea propose to include the budget of the city of Sevastopol. The faction of the Party of the Regions will also support the bill as a whole. And we ask the majority to support this very important and necessary bill, and again, I repeat, each of them is voting on his own card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I ask the National MPs to make their decision on this law now. We discussed it, and everyone who signed up had the opportunity to speak. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this project as a whole. All the deputies understood the position set out in this law. I would focus on what it is that Ukraine will decide, including the budgetary issues of our territory that Crimea has been, is and always will be. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the draft law on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on increasing the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Project 4591. Please support as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:21:05]] For 249 Decision taken. We accepted the project as a whole. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to look at this in an accelerated way, we have a lot of questions in order of the day. It's 4160. Dear colleagues, the committee's chairman, Eugene Borisovich Geller, insists that we consider 4160, 4160-odd in a reduced procedure now and then adjust the order for consideration of the issues a little bit. Please, I'm asking you to support the consideration of these two laws, they're related, they're alternate, they're simplified. Please vote. [[17:21:47]] For 196 Decision taken. Please, Blagodir Yuri Anatoliyovich, please come to the rostrum. You don't? Then I ask for your head. Friends, that's when you're standing in the rostrum. Please speed up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, there is a request to uphold the law as a whole. He's half-species. It only conforms to the Constitution of the Code of Budgets concerning the restoration of the function of control over the revenue part of the State budget by the Court of Auditors of Ukraine. The Scientific and Experimental Authority supports, and also offers, without any notice, the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u92	Please, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Mr. Geller Yevgen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u93	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the bill and drew attention to the following. As a result of the adoption of Law 763 on February 23, Act No. 2592 had been repealed, which had been amended to the contrary. Therefore, most of the 4,160 issues raised in the bill should be settled. However, the adoption of this law has led to a legal colossal and ambiguous treatment of the relevant codex. At present, there is no final legal agreement, except for the codex. And the 4,160 bill in the paper will not have practical implementation, but it will exacerbate the problem. Thus it was necessary to introduce a new version of the Code, to which amendments were envisaged in the bill and in the Law 2592. In view of the above, the committee prepared and worked on the draft of this bill, number 4160d. The amended bill also proposes clarification. In the Code and the Rules of the Supreme Council, the appointment of state bodies and officials in the budgetary process to harmonize with other legislation and provide for their names to be shortened to ensure a clear understanding of the content. Make editorial and technical legal clarifications. To implement the Basic Principles of State Financial Control in accordance with the Budget Code. The Ministry of Finance supports a bill that has been drafted by the committee. In view of the above, the committee unanimously adopted such a decision. To recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on the basis and generally as a law by the Committee on Editorial Affairs No. 4160-d. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There's no need, I understand? We're all clear. Eugene Borisovich, please vote now. It's consistent with the Constitution, isn't it? What committee is he proposing to support? 4,160 or 4,160.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u95	4160-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u96	Please, I need to talk to you. I can see it in my hands. I wanted to shorten the process, it didn't work. Please sign in, two for, two against. Please give my word, Victor Mikhailovich, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u97	Please pass the word to Mikhalchino.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u98	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Mikhailchiin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u99	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, there is a need for the realities of the parliamentary-presidential republic to bring the laws governing the activities of those public authorities in the area of State budget policy-making and to monitor the implementation of budgetary legislation into line with the current Constitution of Ukraine. Then, with two drafts to be selected, due to technical legal preparation, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom proposes to support Bill No. 4160. And the second bill, registered as an alternative, according to the degree of technical and legal processing, is not considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u100	I got the offer. Please, National Deputy Momot, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u101	National MP Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u102	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u103	Thank you. Debenkov, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Respectable citizens! I disagree with the report from our political opponents that the 4160th Bill is not so perfect from the point of view of its technical and legal processing. I would like to point out that, among other things, the first and second bills are indeed of a technical nature aimed at unifying the rules of law in accordance with article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to which, by the way, amendments were made at the initiative of our faction. That is, the constitutional institution will oversee and control the Supreme Council of Ukraine not only by using budgetary resources but also by the coming of budgetary resources. But at the same time, I would like to point out that the bill proposed by the profile committee, 4160-d, has more extensive proposals aimed at improving the budgetary process, namely: the presentation, the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reports on the implementation of the budget and the drafting of the central executive bodies, which have the appropriate legal responsibility for the implementation of the budget process. That's why we're going to be supporting the proposal of a profile committee with regard to support on the ground and the whole of the 4160-d bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u104	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u105	Dear National Deputies! What is the purpose of this law? It's very simple. In connection with the 2004 return to the Constitution, the powers of the government and the powers attached to the President are transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This was the purpose of the draft Law that our colleague Blagodar reported. But the budget committee decided differently, he decided to enter other powers, and this is what is causing the national MPs to deny it. Therefore, the impact faction proposes to support the first Law 4160, which performs a technical function to conform to the requirements of the Constitution in 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, I think we will be determined by voting. In view of the comments, I realize that we can only accept the first reading. Yes, Victor Mikhailovich? Well, you bet. But respectable colleagues, which is the law. 4160, 4160-d, let's go in sequence as they register, and we'll vote. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Please request one minute before the vote, National Deputy Gellier, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u107	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! Draft Law 4160-d was considered by the Committee and adopted by the Committee as a whole. 4,160 was rejected. Therefore, I would like to put to the vote what was adopted by the Committee - 4160-d.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u108	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm going to follow the Rules here. There's a sequence. The Law Committee may reject, may support, but the Supreme Council will be determined. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm putting them in line as registered. We will be the first to vote on the basis of the draft Law under registration number 4160. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. On the basis of 4,160, please vote. [[17:31:45]] For 213 Unfortunately, no decision is made. By factions, please: 0 – Party of Regions, 73 – Fatherland, Impact 33 – Economic Development – 16, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29.34 – Freedom, Company – traditionally 0, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, the next law is 4160-d. On the basis of that, please identify yourself as a national MP. Please identify yourself with regard to the adoption of this law as a basis. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[17:32:30.]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the microphone to the head of the Gellier Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u109	The committee's proposal is to take 4160-d as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u110	We've already voted, we haven't accepted. Please turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great request to the head of the committee not to assume the authority of the committee. A minute ago, he said the committee didn't support this law, and now he's speaking on behalf of the committee. The Supreme Council can make a different decision. So I propose to go back to the 4160 vote, to identify myself in the hall and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I pay attention, including the committee heads. Eugene Borisovich, we are now looking at the issue, not as a whole, but as a basis. So I think we can now accept 4,160 if you support it as a base and work on it as a whole. Is there no objection? None. I ask you to return to the vote on these matters. Please return to the vote, support the return. [[17:33:56]] For 261 Decision taken. You see, we still have reserves. Dear colleagues, I'm voting for acceptance as a basis, i.e. in the first reading of Project 4160. Please vote. [[17:34:23]] For 260 Decision taken. A brief procedure is the need to vote, head of the committee? Or in general there is an offer. Please turn on the microphone to the committee head. There is a proposal in general and there is a proposal for a reduced procedure. What format?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u113	Don't vote him. For the shorter procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u114	It's a short-term procedure. Please. Dear colleagues, let's, uh, offer the head of the committee. I can't force a committee to take another position here. Please support the simplified procedure for this law. Please vote. [[17:35:15.]] For 230 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to be approached by the faction manager right now, and I'd like to ask that we, under a reduced procedure, now accept the issue of the state registration of real estate rights and their burdens. This is a question that the rural area and the villagers are very insistent on. There's no denying that we're going to look at this right now? I won't. 2252. Before that, I'm asking you to support the reduced procedure. So we still need to accept one very important question. Please vote. [[17:36:06]] For 213 Please, National Deputy Nichiporenko on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? This is particularly true of all deputies associated with agrarian districts. But not only do all deputies associated with agrarian districts have to pay attention to this issue. The question is very simple. By 1992, people who lived in rural areas to conduct legal proceedings with their property went to the head of the village council, took help from him, and were able to sell houses on this basis, and could donate them. In 1992, the law came out where people were to receive a witness to the right of ownership. People who lived in the village for the rest of their lives did not understand what it was. Today, the pensioner, once again, stresses that this is only about buildings that were built before 1992, only until 1992, so that a pensioner who didn't understand what a state-owned act was, would have to order a company that does a house survey that a man built back in the 1980s, and pay 10,000 or 8,000 dollars for it. She can't do that. So it's not about making something cheaper, it's about giving a person a state right to property on the basis of the information that the head of the village council will write on the basis of the farm book. This practice existed before 1992, and this experience is there. The state will lose nothing because the people who have not done so will never do so again in their lives, and they will never contact the BTI in their lives, because a pensioner who lives in a rural area.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u116	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u117	Ten thousand dollars he never collects. So I'm asking you to adopt this law as a basis. And if there is no comment, immediately today we will adopt this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we make a decision without discussion? We can. This applies, I emphasize, to houses until 1992. The palaces were not built then, of course. Can he vote on the basis or on the basis of it as a whole? On the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, identify and support the proposal: draft Law 2252 on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens. Please identify the distinguished national MPs as a basis and as a whole. [[17:39:38]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you for taking care of the peasants. Dear colleagues! Please let us now consider question 4638. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (to enable the city of Kiev to really influence the development of the city). We have two bills here. I'm asking you to support them until they're done, with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:40:23]] For-189 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Let me remind you that this is Project 4638 and Project 3004. Let's give the project authors a word. The first is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klitschko. Please, Vitalia Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! I'm sure you don't need to tell everyone in the room right now where Kiev is today. All the deputies from all over Ukraine are in Kiev, seeing for themselves what is happening in Kiev. The turmoil that exists today, the roads, and the infrastructure, the approaches, and so on. The same things are seen by all the residents, all the guest capitals that are coming. This is the result of the productive work that was carried out by the previous authorities when the breach was crucial -- self-government in the capital. In Kiev, there has been no mayor for more than two years. There is no master, and all the things that are happening in Kiev do not correspond to the status of the capital, do not correspond at all to the status of the modern city. We are confident that today we need to return to the Capital Law, where there is a clear provision for the unification of the mayor’s authority and the head of the KMDA. This will allow us to focus on providing services to the Chinese to solve the problems that Kiev is living with today. This is a draft decision to amend the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the city of Kiev. That giving the city’s head the opportunity to really influence the city’s development. According to part of article 10.1 of the Ukrainian Capital Act, the Kyiv City Administration, the KMDA, is the executive body of the Kyiv City Council. In connection with this fact, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, in its decision of December 25, 2003, made a clear and unequivocal emphasis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u120	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u121	The city’s city administration is to be headed only by a person chosen by the city’s Kiev head. However, part of the Capital Law allows the decision of the Constitutional Court to be ignored and the head of the KMDA, not the Kiev City Head, but other persons who deprive the Kiev City Head of the ability to actually carry out executive powers and their pre-election program that violates the rights of the Chinese as a territorial community and local self-government. Under these circumstances, the Chinese have become or are not the only territorial community in Ukraine, before which the executive authorities of the local authorities have no political responsibility, which is a clear violation of the European Charter of Local Government. In addition, according to the current version of the Ukrainian Capital Law in the case of the failure to establish areas in Kievrada, as is now the case at the district level of Kiev, local self - government is completely eliminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u122	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u123	Since the territorial community of Kiev cannot influence the district areas of Kiev, the state administration through any of its elected bodies. We propose to restore the order according to which the KMDA can be led by only a person chosen by the Kiev City Head, who is appointed by the President of Ukraine as the head of the KMDA, who is a person in the exercise of local self-government and executive power in Kiev. I can read this law, he, I'm sure there's not enough time. But there is a clear belief that we need it today, that we really need to implement things that have long been waiting for the Chinese, and that we can do it in the shortest possible time. Our proposal is to return to the Capital Law, which includes the unification of city heads and heads of the KMDA. Since we're confident that change will start with Kiev, change in the country, it's going to have to be done in the shortest term. And that's only possible by this way when the Chinese give the authority of the city's head and it has the ability to influence and realize the aspirations of the local people in order to realize their desire to live in a city where they live comfortably, which is a visiting card for the entire country. I ask the MPs to support this bill. This is essential for reforms to begin as quickly as possible and for reforms to begin with the capital. The MPs would like to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u124	Thank you, Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, let's now hear an alternative law on this issue. Pavlovsky’s national deputy, and then Natalia Vasilovna, will comment on these two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u125	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Dear compatriots, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed in Bill 3004, which proposes to amend the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, namely, remove article 10 from it. This will restore the traditional order of city administration when the city’s head is in charge of executive authority in the city. I would like to remind you of article 141 of the Constitution, which states that the territorial community of Kiev has the right to choose a city’s head, which is headed by the executive body of the Kiev City Council and presides over city council meetings. At the same time, this article is a prime 10. creates an unprecedented situation when a parallel public authority - the city government - is created to the executive council body. Therefore, this article is proposed to be deleted. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council has created a constitutional commission that prepares changes to the Constitution. As we know, in May we are ready to consider these changes, which generally foresee the elimination of such authorities as government administrations, and the creation of the appropriate boards of executives. That is, these public administrations will not be needed at all, nor will they need to be united. In view of this, I propose to withdraw my bill at all, and the previous one is because we will soon adopt the Constitution and there will be no State administrations at all. Therefore, I propose that these laws be removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u126	Dear colleagues! I'm asking the National Deputy's profile committee, Natal Vasilovna Novak, deputy head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor! The bill was considered by the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government on April 9, 2014. The committee noted that the proposed changes did not give rise to fundamental objections, since the need for the appointment of a city head, the head of the municipal public administration elected by the territorial community, and the head of the KMDA also derives from article 141 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides that a city head elected by the territorial community should lead the executive body. The content of article 10-1 of the bill is that the Kyiv City Administration is the implementing body of the Kiev City Council, which is a special feature of local self - government in Kiev. This position regarding executive power in Kiev is in line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its decision of December 25, 2003, according to which the Kiev City State Administration is to be headed only by a person elected by the Kiev City Head. At the same time, the committee noted that the project’s position could not be implemented immediately because the city’s head is not in Kiev today. Thus, the committee suggested that this rule would take effect from the time of the election of the Kiev City Head in accordance with the law. Also, the Science and Experimental Authority has reached a positive conclusion and we propose to vote in favour of this law, to adopt this law as a basis. It's about Law 4638. The next law is Law 3004. The committee also considered this law and, despite the positive findings of the Committee on Corruption, the Committee took a decision on budget issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u128	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u129	To reject this law in view of the fact that this law destroys a rule that is specific to the exercise of local self - government in Kiev under the Constitution, when the Kiev City State Administration is simultaneously the executive body of the Kiev City Council. So we're proposing Law 4638 as a base, and Law 3004 as a negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u130	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, let's do two or two against and make a decision. Please sign up for the performance. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u131	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, if everyone here is present, and you all have serious experience working in the regions, working in local self-government. He asked himself when it was better: when is there a single head of government in the city, in the coordination of the work of city structures, or when is there a two - government? All of you will say that if there is a bi-government, there is clearly a possibility of conflict. So the conflict between two governments. I don't know, maybe it's just in Ukrainian terms, but we live in Ukrainian conditions. Where there is a possibility of a two - authority, there is a conflict between the council’s head and the city’s head. According to a large account, yesterday, when the next meeting of the Constitutional Commission took place, it was proposed that, among the changes to the Constitution, such a bi-government be eliminated at the regional level, i.e. a population of already communities, when the district council would be held and it would have an executive committee, and when the head of the executive committee would carry out the functions, management functions in the area, in practice, all political forces, regardless of their fractional affiliation, would support it. Obviously, this trend, when one person is responsible for the area over the city, is the right trend. That's why the Group of Sovereign European Ukraine is ready to support the bill that Vitaly Klitschko proposed. And I don't think there's any point in calling it off, Mr. Andrew, your bill, because the content is correct, it's modern, and it's going to work for the benefit of the citizens. That's why we're going to support these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u132	Thank you. Please, Deputy Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u133	30th constituency, National Deputy Constantine Guzenko. Please give the floor to the expert on this matter to the national deputy Eugen Kartashov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u134	Please turn on Eugene Kartashov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! I'm addressing everyone who's in this room today. We are obviously all responsible for the trials that are taking place in the city of Kiev. This beautiful, beautiful, European city today has become a Roma camp. That's because we don't have leadership, we don't have a mayor for so many years. And I believe that the bill, which was passed today, 4638, requires our support. And I think that, in the same person as the person who was elected, the President of Ukraine should then assert himself. Because it's a capital. It is a dual burden both as an organ of self-government and as an organ that is today, it is exclusively the city of the capital that governs it. The consideration of this issue and the adjustment that was to be made in our laws is now the main and determining one. And I think that we must finally make our decision to make a literate decision that will never again allow the city of Kiev to become the kind of city today. We must pay tribute to those who have fought for freedom, for their independence, who have gone through this stage. And today our city of Kiev needs to be transformed into a model city in Europe. I want us to feel the responsibility of each and every one of us by adopting this law. And they made an effort to get all the foreign representatives to come here, and they said, "Here's Europe." That's how we always have to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u136	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u137	Please give the word to the active political and public figure of the city of Kiev, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u138	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u139	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear friends! The bill and both of them must be voted on and supported. Because the city of Kiev has been in an unprecedented situation in recent years when local self - rule was completely eliminated. And this happened both at the level because the past authorities blocked the elections in Kiev, both by the city council and by the city’s heads. And this involved some legislative and institutional changes when Kiev eliminated even local self - government institutions themselves. It was limited, in fact, the city’s head was nullified, and district councils were eliminated. By the way, the question is not to be forgotten either. The district councils need to be restored. So, of course, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, which has always consistently taken a stand to protect Kiev's interests and the Kiev self-government, of course we will support both of these bills. And I would like to say literally two words about what was said to the previous speaker. It turns out that Kiev's main problem is that there's a Maidan in Kiev. I don't think that's Kiev's main problem. I think the main problem of Kiev is that it has been looted for years by political forces such as the Party of Regions, which in due course supported Chernevski, I want to remind you, and in the Kiev City Council, it was in his coalition, and then supported by Mr. Popov, who in Kiev was not chosen by anyone, who conducted the same policy of destroying the city that Chernewsky was conducting, and completely destroyed local self-government in Kiev. So it's worth it now, I think, to talk about reinstatement of self-government. And the Chinese, when they can run their own city, when they can take power, I think they'll decide how they can better manage their city. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u140	Thank you. National MP Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u141	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill by voting it both on the basis and in general. Why, what arguments? You know, I meet very often with our electorates, the kyans, the Dniprovosts. I hear very often from them the words: When finally in Kiev there will be both responsible and effective, and legal authority. For a year and a half, Kyiv lives without a city head. For a year and a half, Kyiv lives in a state of disorder and irresponsibility. It is likely that the city’s head can be fully responsible for the events and lives of the city of Kiev. But this city head should not just be a decorative city head, which we have recently had, Mr. Chernowitz. And this must be the person who should be given all the authority regarding organizational, legal, financial autonomy, city autonomy. You know, I'm probably also a proponent of the same idea as Andrew Pavlovsky said about the total elimination of state administrations or the transformation of state administrations into organs that would essentially oversee the implementation of laws in cities or there minimally implemented in executive power. But unfortunately, I'm not as optimistic as Mr. Andrey about the very rapid changes to the Constitution in this regard and the implementation of the new legislative functions. Therefore, I believe that today we must uphold this law. To give the person who will be elected by the city’s head of law and function as head of the Kiev City Administration the opportunity to fully implement Kiev’s policy. But I want to tell you that the committee pointed out that the position of the project cannot be implemented immediately after its adoption due to the absence of a legally elected city head in Kiev. So I think it would be appropriate to adjust the End Position of the Project and predict that the law proposed in the project becomes effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u142	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u143	Let me finish, please. Since the election of the city’s head in accordance with the law. I propose that this project be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u144	I got the offer. Please, after one minute of the factions that didn't get a chance to speak. Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u145	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Honorable colleagues and honorable sneezes! I think that just if we adopt at least the first of these bills, the changes from Kiev will not start, at least because it's some sort of archaic scheme that's proposed in this bill. The whole world and self-government in the world are going in a different way: elected by the council community, elected by the boards, elected by the executives or by the executive bodies, and in parallel by the administrations that monitor the enforcement of legislation. All over the world, there's a city head, he's usually in charge of the city government, and there's a prefecture or an administration that's overseeing compliance with the Constitution and the legislation. And in many cases, the head of the government, the head of the city council and this head of administration are different people. Once again, we have a critical centralization of authority, and we are again invited to return to Kiev in one person: the Kiev City Head, once and for all, heads the meetings of the Kiev City Council, two, and he is the head of the Kiev City Administration, three. In order to cope with such a bulk of authority, competences must be needed and there must be a strong anticorruption mechanism in the capital city of Ukraine. And this one, especially the other one, is not. This means that once such a law has been passed, once again the risk of corruption and the concentration of powers in one hand will become as critical for Kiev and Kyiv as possible. That's why we're proposing to go back to the bill that's in the rescue package, which supports the public -- 4289 -- which provides for: a council, an execution, and an administration that has limited powers. Go back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u146	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u147	Go back to the People's Self-Organization Act, these are micro-regions, and the Citizens' General Assembly Act. And in these complexes, the three bills will start to solve the problem of local self-government as dictated by European experience now, not as we used to: by concentrating powers in one hand. That's why "Fatherland" agrees with Andrew Pavlovsky's proposal. We propose that both bills be removed from consideration and not voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, I continue to meet in Parliament. Please don't disperse the national MPs. Before making a decision on this matter. Please turn on the microphone for one minute, National Deputy Zuravsky. And we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? It's not about two-round elections or one-round elections. This is where the discussion on this subject just unfolded. The point is to return to the situation in Kiev when both the mayor and the head of the Kiev City Administration were Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenko. So we go back to the basic principle of local self-government: the community chooses the measure, and on this basis the constitutional guarantor, the President of Ukraine, appoints the head of the Kiev City Public Administration. I'm speaking for myself. And I will personally vote in favour of this bill, presented by Vitaly Klitschko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u150	I see. Dear colleagues, please, we have spoken to all who have signed up. Well, one minute. National MP Bondar, and we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, I am addressing you. So let's actually get to the situation. For two years, Kiev expected that there would eventually be a host in the city who would actually do the city, the utilities, and so on. We are now invited by Viacheslav Kirilenko, a colleague of mine, with all due respect, to appoint a remarrying general, who will then have his authority, two more leaders will be in Kiev. Three leaders to Kiev is too much. In the areas there is a manager, he works, the head of administration, he does all the functions, and no one tells him to give him two more assistants with different powers. For some reason we come to the big cities of London, New York, Munich -- there's one mayor doing all the work and he's doing fine, and it's not Kiev, sorry. So I propose, let's support this bill and finally give the Chinese the opportunity to get their own measure, which will be fully responsible for all the politics in the city, for agriculture, for municipal agriculture, for coordinating the activities of all the departments and so on. And do not dissipate the authority between a large number of people who will then share the authority and prevent each other from working. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats right now. All of them spoke, even more than that. And let's make decisions in order, as we have these laws in order of the day: first, 4638, then, 3004. Please, Your Honor, identify and accept. I'm going to be the base, when it goes through and there's no notice, I'm going to put it in general. Adopt Bill 4638 as a basis. Vote please, Your Honor. [[18:06:28]] For-162 The decision is not taken. Please, the next law, right now, colleagues, let's go through the next law and then I'll give you a chance to reply. 3004 please identify the distinguished national MPs on Law 3004 of the Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Capital Act. Please vote your respectable colleagues as a basis. [[18:07:13]] For-163 The factions, please. The region's 21st, Fatherland's 11th, Impact'-36th, Economic Development's 2, Sovereign European Ukraine's 30th, Freedom's 34th, Company's 0th, non-fractional 24. National MP Patchkan, ask for your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u153	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! What is happening now is once again trying to move away from the democratic norms that should be in the European capital. Is it if the "Fatherland" faction and MPs are introducing a bill and then not voting for it, what's it called? So they're voting against the Chinese and against the self-government in Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, when the faction leaders tell me that there are voices, I can go back to that question. Please turn on the microphone, the author of the law. Maybe we'll try to vote. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u155	Colleagues, you. Well, you don't need Fatherland. "Paternality" did everything if you remember that self-governance was restored in Kiev, and when Yanukovic deprived us of the right of Magdeburg. Now, notice that I said that I'm even against the activities of so-called government administrations. The councils elected by the people should be the city heads who are also responsible for these executive bodies, as they will be called, executive committees or otherwise, but this should be exactly what is delegated by the Board of Commissioners to these executive bodies. And we're just preparing the Constitution, and notice what we're going to be looking at in May about the changes to the Constitution on strengthening local self-government, where these state administrations are not going to be. I'm underlining that there won't be! And there will be executive organs. You don't have to rush to hell in front of your father! Let's vote for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, we have five minutes before 18.15, how the Supreme Council can work. I want to let you know, I've just got a call from Donetsk County. Ukrainian Special Forces have released the terrorists from the airport in Kramatorsk. [[Applause]] And I'm pretty sure we won't have any terrorists in Donetsk or any other region, and they'll be on the bench where they belong. Dear colleagues, I ask you, we have a draft of the Order, introduced by representatives of the Kharkiv region, to change and establish the boundaries of the city of Barwinkovo Barwinkovo district of Kharkiv. Dear colleagues, there is an offer of Kharkiv district to support. It's a simple question. It does not need hard work and vote without discussion, no objection? Katerina Vaszczuk fully supports me, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to this matter and make your decision. And now, and then Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will give the replica. Please, Your Honor, return to this question. A colorful, beautiful city name, changing and setting borders, please. Please come back to that question. Please vote, Your Honor. No, Your Honor, I'm asking you to take the vote, because I can see that we are in a hurry to leave now. Come on, guys, put your cards in, there's no need for MPs to work. Please turn on Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u157	Dear Head, your honor, I'm in charge of the previous vote. First of all, not all the deputies were able to vote, by the way, and not all the cards worked. For example, I voted, and the card showed that I did not vote. So there's this request: in order to preserve our attitude towards work and to preserve this coalition, which is very difficult to make, let's go back tomorrow and make a decision by rejecting all political motives. Because I feel that if we don't make a concerted decision, even if we step on our own political song (I ask you to calm down). I think we've got all the seats, we're just voting for you. Then calm down, please. Let's vote tomorrow and make a decision. And this is going to be a free decision, it's going to help us make decisions and work, or else I see there's not going to be a job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u158	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u159	Dear colleagues. Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. You know, I'm being "performed" by a party of regions that in due course destroyed the mayor's office, appointed a so-called governor in Kiev, and now she's telling us how she's going to save local self-government. Colleagues, either we're swindling east and west, or we're voting on a constitution that has a mayor and has a head of execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-15-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, I'm going to ask the MPs tomorrow to return to this question. And then I ask the MPs to identify themselves on this issue. Please, thank you for your work. The Supreme Council will continue its activities the next day from 10 a.m. Good-bye.
