ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking all the national deputies to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please take your seats so that we can start our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Today, on December 25, I would like to welcome the Christians who are celebrating the present Christmas of Christ, a beautiful and glorious festival. And on this beautiful bright day, I want to wish all believers good, well-being, success, peaceful heavens above my head. And let this day fill us with warmth, joy, and love for years to come and inspire us to work in a fine way today. With the celebration of all. Good and peace. People's deputies are coming along. Dear colleagues, I'll read it. There aren't many. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're starting our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that at 10 a.m. I would like to take into account that the start of the session is at 10 a.m. I understand there are factions, but, dear friends, please. [[10:11:08]] 307 national deputies in the hall. Dear colleagues, there are several announcements. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Revega Alexandr Vasilovich, into the party's deputy faction "Block of Petra Poroshenko". The next announcement, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, is the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For Equality!".. Headquarters of the interfractional parliamentary association "For Equality!" The national deputies of the Ukraine of Janicko Vasil Petrovich and Wozniak were elected. In accordance with 60 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of an interfractional European Cherkaščina in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "European Cherkaščina" elected the national deputies of Ukraine Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovic and Petrenko Oleg Mikolajovic. Next, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the creation of an interfractional "Colo" MP. Kolo was elected head of the interfractional MPs' association, the National Deputy of Ukraine Krivenk Viktor Mikolaiovich. The next, according to the Rules, is a parliamentary association "For the European Content!".. The head of the interfractional parliamentary association for the European Continuum! elected National Deputy of Ukraine Lavrik Mikol Ivanovich. Next, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report on the creation of an inter-fractional "Solidarity of Right Forces" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The interfractional MP was elected as the national deputy of Ukraine, Artemenko Andrej Viktorovich. In accordance with the Rules, I report on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association called the European Donbas. European Donbas was elected as the leader of the interfractional parliamentary association, National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerasimov Artura Volodymirovic. In accordance with the Rules, I report on the creation of a parliamentary union "For Ukraine's Future!".. The head of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "To Ukraine's Future!" elected National Deputy of Ukraine Kozachenka Leonid Petrovich. In accordance with article 60, and according to the minutes of the parliamentary faction of the Party "Block of Peter Poroshenko" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the election of the deputy head of the Party "Block of Petra Poroshenko" of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Matvienko Anatolia Sergeiovich. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have our colleague the nominee. Let us, in good tradition, welcome the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Mikhailovich Granovsky, with his birthday and wish him health and success in our work together. [[Applause]] Welcome! Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will now move with you to the agenda. Please, I'm asking you to focus on your work, distinguished national MPs. Please take your jobs. Faction leaders, I'd like you to be involved in the work of the deputies in the session room. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act (Registration No. 1343), which was introduced by the President of Ukraine for a second reading. I invite you to speak to the head of the committee of profile – Pashinski Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to take my seats. Faction leaders. Dear faction leaders! Yuri Vitaliovich! Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, please let the deputies take their seats. We're starting a day-to-day discussion. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u2	Dear friends! For the third time, I have to report this bill from this important rostrum. The last time I reported this law, I quoted the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, convinced and debated in every norm. Sadly, these efforts were not successful. You know, more than that, there were accusations in the room that it was a constitutional coup, that it was illegal, that it wasn't constitutional. One of our colleagues sitting next to me can see to help me scream from the place, "You include ecology there." Dear friends, don't give it to God, of course, but if there's an environmental disaster that's going to threaten our safety, and if there's going to be a need to include the MNS, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Health, it's a matter of national security -- don't give it to God. The second issue raised by some deputies, as if by this law they wanted to subordinate the uncreated Anticorruption Bureau of the National Security and Defence Council. Dear friends, I'm one of the authors of the Anti-Corruption Bureau bill, because we wanted to make this office completely independent, it clearly says, "Structure of Subordination." The anticorruption office and the head of this office is subject solely to the laws of Ukraine. Moreover, there is a comprehensive list of reasons why he may be released. By the way, it introduces a rule that can be set free by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the initiative of 150 deputies. But what is coordination and control in the fight against corruption? Let's model a hypothetical situation, that's what we have in our service. We all know there's no corruption. But let's imagine she's there. Customs corruption is a reduction in the budget's income, it's a threat to national security. What Is Corruption in Customs? It's smuggling, B.B.I., it's corruption, it's under the authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and it's a corruption of a higher echelon that's under the authority of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. How can corruption be overcome? Of course, this activity must be coordinated. Maybe we should put Nachwardia on customs duty, maybe we should put the border guards somewhere else. The question is not about usurping power. I'm just putting your weight on the fact that yesterday's decision of the U.N.R.O. was published on one of the rules of this decision. There's a state pension service that doesn't seem to be national.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a little more, with respect to a colleague who's speaking from the rostrum. I realize that everyone has very important questions, answers, conversations, but this can be done on a nonsessional day. Please concentrate, let me finish the report to the committee head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u4	I'd like to take another look at yesterday's, for example, the newly published decision of the U.N.B.O. on the State Penitentiary Service. It's not as if it's a matter of state security, the penitentiary service, but sorry, the funds we're spending there are not enough, and within these institutions, social dissatisfaction occurs. And that's why the NSA decided that the whole form of our service -- the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Defense, the border guards, the Naziwardia -- is sewing essentially the State Penitentiary Service to provide them with funds and thus to relieve social tension. Yesterday we received the opinion of the Legal Policy Committee, which confirmed the full constitutionality of these changes to the law, our committee reviewed all the amendments. We voted on them the other day in this room, and it recommends that the bill be passed as a law as a whole, as a whole, as an editorial. But yesterday at the parliamentary coalition's lunchtime, a working group was set up to produce materials, and now I'm asking you, carefully, for the transcript, to quote. Paragraph 2 of the first draft should be supplemented by a paragraph: in the first part of article 4 of the current law, replace the words “defined by this law” with the words “defined by the Constitution and by this law”. Paragraph 2 of section 1 of the project, sub-paragraph “v”, should be amended to coordinate and monitor the activities of the executive authority in the areas of anti-corruption, public security and the fight against crime against national security and defence. And in paragraph 5 of subparagraph "a" of paragraph 8 of chapter 1, paragraph 10 of the new chapter after the words "law enforcement authorities" should be added to the words "within the limits of the President's mandate." Dear Chairman, I ask, in the light of these amendments, that this law be put to the vote on the basis and as the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u5	Thank you. I'm voting on the committee as a whole as a second reading of the amendments that came out of the rostrum and the committee's decision, the profile committee. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u6	Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u7	Please vote, Your Honor, on the basis of the second reading as well. [[10:22:26]] For 253 Decision taken. [[Applause]] 9 – against, held – 7, not voted – 103, only 372. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, they worked all day yesterday. The other night, they were working south, having all the conversations. Today, I was informed that all issues were agreed upon, we were working on it. Dear colleagues, let us now consider the following issues of order. The following questions are asked for inclusion in the agenda. Attention, fellow officers! Attention, attention, attention, colleagues! Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, I have just received an application for a recess on the demand of two factions: the deputy faction of the Opposition Block and the MP faction, the groups, more specifically, the will of the people. In order not to announce the break, I would like to give the floor to the faction manager for Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko. People's deputies are requested to clear the floor. Attention! [[B in m in s a l in]] From the rostrum? From the rostrum? From the rostrum? All right, colleagues, I'll ask you all to take your seats. Take your seats in the hall! Please, three minutes to make the speech. Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, from place, 3 minutes. People's deputies are requested to take up their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u8	The Honorable Presidium! Dear National Deputies! Yuri Boyko, faction of the Opposition Block. This presentation of the Budget and Tax Codes for the next year is an attempt to blackmail the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the cover of the slogan: to survive, the country needs a budget at any cost. But the price of government proposals is very high for both the population and the country. What are we offered in these documents? Changes to the Tax Code, which will turn Ukraine into a tax-police state. Taxes on ordinary citizens and pressures on business are on the rise. It's about a dragon's increase in real estate taxes, an increase in land taxes, an increase in pension taxes, an increase in the tax on physical income. In addition, the tax will be given the widest remit of income testing and citizen spending, fiscals will be free to go home, evaluate property, and calculate 30 percent of the savings tax. The whole business is going to end up under heavy press. The changes to the Tax Code bring back bad practices in the '90s, undeniably, that is, no court and no inquiry into tax evasion. The introduction of VAT accounts will lead to a deterioration of financial position and job losses. The draft amendments to the Code of Budgets turn the idea of decentralization into an empty sound. The government places a large number of social functions on the scene, and local authorities take up real incomes. Local budgets collect 25 percent of the income tax that is proposed to compensate part of the income for the introduction of new payments. In times of crisis, this can be forgotten. In this way local budgets do not receive the necessary funds to finance the health, education, and education system. Based on these two documents, the budget project is making the population stalemate. The government has been freezing all the standards and payments for almost the year 2015. There will be a reduction in the number of social articles in the budget and in the amount of funding that almost 900 educational and medical institutions will be able to produce. The extent of all social payments will be reduced to the amounts set by the government to its discretion. As practice has shown, for many this will mean the elimination of all benefits, benefits, and relief. The only thing that brings together all these three documents is manual growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u9	Please let the People's Deputies finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u10	. In the Kabmin manual administration, nearly one and a half billion dollars are transferred to the administration of administrative reforms, almost 1 billion to carry out laboratory research into the health care of the population. Taking all these remarks into account, the Opposition Block is in favour of reviewing the draft budget and the bills on which it is formed. We insist on making real macroeconomic indicators and indexing pensions, wages and social benefits into the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the following issues of the agenda. And I would ask you to concentrate, take your seats. The first question I want to ask is a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to international organisations and inter-parliamentary assemblies on the liberation of the Ukrainian airman and the Ukrainian national deputy on the eighth call to the hope of Viktorovna Savchenko. As you remember, this decision was made, and it is a committee. And I'm betting on the vote to include in. We included it in the past, in the last session. So I'd like to ask you, Gregory Nemira, please. I think it's a reduced procedure. Everyone knows the problem. Please, Gregory Restless.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I thank you for your support for today's inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's decision to refer to international organizations and inter-parliamentary assemblies for the release of Ukraine's National Deputy on the Eighth Call to the Hope of Viktorovna Savichenko. Yesterday, this bill was unanimously supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Human Rights. I want to remind you that on December 11 we adopted a similar decision to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. On Monday in Moscow, this decree, and this appeal, was handed down by Hope Savechenko to the judge in charge of her case, and it was added to the case. Hope of Savichenko has given thanks to all of you for this support. But we also need to take a second step, which is similar to the content of the call to be addressed to international organisations and inter-parliamentary assemblies, first of all to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the text of the decree contains an entry for the non-quota inclusion of Hope Savchenko in the permanent delegation of Ukraine to South Africa. I would like to remind you that the address also contains the names of other Ukrainian prisoners of war and calls for their release. So today I call upon all, not only coalition representatives, but also opposition and non-fractional ones, to support the Supreme Council's decision and appeal to international organizations so that Hope Savechenko will receive another support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft decree has been issued. Is there a need to discuss it? We know what conditions our colleague is in today. So I'm asking everyone to focus. I'm also laying the groundwork for the entire draft Decree (registration number 1584) and I'm asking the national deputies to support this decision. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:32:52]] For 321 Decision taken. Against 0. Hold on to 0. They didn't vote, 50 deputies. Thank you, Your Honor. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act (as regards the conditions for the involvement of professionals) (draft by National Deputy Knjazević at registration number 1605). I'm going to put this to a vote right now in the order of the day session, and we're going to keep moving. Please, I'll bet you 1605. Please vote, Your Honor, for the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, Your Honor, the order of the day session. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:33:45]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to focus on the job, but it's not that we didn't want to vote, it's that we didn't want to vote. I ask you, honourable national deputies, now we will vote on the order of the day session, then on the committees, then on the first reading, the second reading, and everything else. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. This is only part of the qualifications of the procurator general. Ruslan Knazevic – author.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, indeed, last time at the session we made several attempts to include this bill. But then the obstacle was that the bill was a norm that allowed foreigners to be assigned to the prosecutor’s office. Since this objection did indeed make it impossible to vote on the question in the agenda, yesterday I introduced a bill in exchange, which today is the subject of our consideration, where this rule has been removed. So, as far as I'm concerned, there are no obstacles to putting this bill into the agenda right now. I would like to ask you again, Sir Head, to put this question to a vote and, I think, just until the end, the individual deputies did not understand this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a closer look at the order of the day session. Please, Your Honor, in the agenda of the day session, include a draft law (registration number 1605). I ask all members of the people to vote. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:35:30.]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, by factions. Peter Prashenko Block 120, People's Front 3. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to my colleagues at the People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, once we supported the Security and Defence Council bill. Now we're talking about qualifications for prosecutors. Today, it takes at least five years to get to work at the prosecutor’s office. This means that the same prosecutor's caste is sitting in the prosecutor's office. It is proposed that this restriction be lifted for five years so that lawyers, civil society representatives, and so on can work in the prosecutor’s office. So this is a modern, normal bill. And if we want a real reform of the prosecutor's office, not to leave what Visinsky has so far in place as a repressive structure. I call for support, for voting, for inclusion in the agenda and for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I think this position should receive support in the hall. And please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u18	Guys, we discussed this idea on the anti-corruption committee yesterday. It's really a necessity, not a simple idea, but a necessity. Today’s laws are written so that normal people cannot go to the prosecutor’s office. And this is a key organ that depends on the entire work of the law enforcement system. We won't be able to hire any normal prosecutors to work with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. So let's put this in the order of the day session, it's very important to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, we are forming a day order. We've got plenty. I'm voting on draft law 1605 registration number for the day-to-day session. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:38:14]] For 303 This is the vote! 303. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question (registration number 1499, 1499-1) is the draft Act amending the Food Safety and Quality Act. Draft Law, People's Deputy Kaplan. The committee's head is Angular. I bet you do. Ah, Kaplan, the author, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u20	Dear fellow Ukrainian citizens! This is a really important legislative initiative that will allow farmers to survive today in these conditions. We have decided that we will unite our efforts with Taras Kutov and Oksana Prodan, and I will act as co-author of the unifying legislative initiative and we will vote. As far as I know, Taras Viktorovich has already addressed appropriate references to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u21	Then we put you to the vote. 1499-1 is for day-to-day inclusion. Dear friends, please support 1499-1 for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:39:46]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next: Draft Act amending section VIII, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act. The Batenka People's Deputy Project and the Skuratovsky People's Deputy Project. Responsible Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities. Registration number 1505, 1505-1. Please, if necessary, Shinkovich, deputy head. Is there a need? Do you insist on comments? Don't insist. Vote. Please put to the vote 1505, 1505-1 for inclusion in the agenda. Vote, Your Honor, 1505, 1505-1 for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:41:02]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies, the following is the 1498 draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with a view to re-licensing imports of active pharmaceutical ingredients). The project of the people’s deputy, Zagoriya, was launched on December 19th. Head of the Halasyuk Committee. Are you insisting? Is there a need? Please turn on the author’s microphone. Burn, national MP, give your word to the author. Burn the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the purpose of the draft Act is to revoke the licence to import active pharmaceutical ingredients. That's why we're asking for support, because in fact, the state can be left with no domestic medicine on January 1, 2015 -- it won't be able to import substances, or active pharmaceutical ingredients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u23	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! The opposition supports this bill. We think today that removing the restrictions on imports of drugs that are of good quality will ensure the health of our citizens. Would it be interesting to see how this law would pass in the hall? And today, there's information that's started appropriate actions to block this bill. We believe that this bill should be considered as a priority, and it should give our citizens the opportunity to receive quality medication. And in terms of competitiveness, everyone has to be determined -- you can't use hundreds and hundreds of percent of the revenue on the nation's health. If you are able to produce appropriate medicines that ensure the level, standards, and health of our citizens, please produce. If not, you need to be able to receive quality treatment. And I believe that this law is going to be passed in the same way that it's proposed, and it's not going to be changed into a lobbyist agreement that hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars are going to make in licensing today, and not a bracelet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting for the inclusion of a bill in the agenda of the day, registration number 1498, national MP, author of Zagreb. Please vote. [[10:44:13]] For 306 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Acquisition of Ukrainian Citizens' Property, which is provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency, on strengthening the protection of the rights of borrowers. The project is the National Deputy of Fishing, number 1610. A performance? Please, the author of the word. It's a day-to-day inclusion. We will discuss it during the discussion. Next is the national deputy of Yemen. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In order to protect the rights of people to housing, the Supreme Council imposed a moratorium on the acquisition of Ukrainian citizens’ property on June 3, this year, which was provided as collateral for foreign exchange loans. Due to the considerable devaluation of the bracelets, the law proposed forcible repurchase of residential property, which is considered a mortgage or a consumer loan. The Moratorium works until the time of the restructuring of the currency loans provided that this property meets the legal criteria, that is, if the person lives there but if the building is not completed and the person has no other dwelling, and if the area does not exceed 140 square meters for the apartment or 250 square meters for the housing house. Yet this law is not being fulfilled. There have been massive violations of human rights to housing, and on many occasions the executive notary’s inscription has deprived the individual of his only residence. On Tuesday alone, we helped families in the Winnitsk region to repel such an attack when they were threatened with breaking doors. Many people on the verge of despair, there have already been hundreds of suicides in Ukraine because of the inability to pay off the loan. Natzbank, representatives of the Banking Association, representatives of the borrowers and we are the people's deputies who are obliged in the shortest terms to compromise and adopt the Law on the Restructuring of Monetary Loans. But before he's approved, you and I, your respectable colleagues, the task is to save the only housing for the people, they have to meet the New Year in peace. We're offering home. We have agreed to do so at a meeting of the working group on our committee, which includes the representatives of the Credit Majdan. Therefore, I propose that we urgently amend the Law on the Temporary Moratorium, which provides for clarification as to the participation of the Notaryus in this process. In other words, we propose to cover the holes in this law. I emphasize that several cosponsors of the bill have become co-authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u27	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u28	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, decided to recommend the adoption of this law on a basis and in general. Please support this bill and people, some of whom await our decision under the walls of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u29	This is an inclusion in the agenda, but I would like to thank the committee that you have carried out the task of Head of the Supreme Council so quickly, as a result of our previous meeting. Thank you very much. Please, the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head. I want to ask you a more procedural question, because I am fully supportive of those who have just heard the bill itself. The only thing I would like to point out is that five days before the bill was registered, I registered an entirely similar bill, which sounds (number 1519) to amend some of the laws of Ukraine to prohibit the execution of the executive notary on resorting to housing. I think this bill should have been, as a minimum, an alternative to mine or they should be combined. So I have a huge request: to include my bill as an alternative and to vote for inclusion in the agenda, including Bill 1519 as one that completely repeats both in fact and by the name of the newly proclaimed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u31	Thank you, Your Honor. I think when we look at them, we're going to view them together as one alternative. Please, Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u32	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! These two bills are not formally alternative. The solution would be to include both of these bills in the agenda of the day session. Please support such an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u33	All right, good fellows. Let's vote 14. [[B in m in s a l in]] Do you have a bill, too? Are you in support? Okay. People’s MP Papiew announced his support. Thank you. You're going to vote now. Dear colleagues, then let us include two bills, and then we will unite them during the consideration, and everything will be fine. One: 1610. The National MP is the author of the Fisherman, Sergius Viktorovich. 1610: pending inclusion in the agenda. First. And then the national deputy of the Yemeni. Please vote. [[10:50:00]] For 324 Next. Deputies of the people of Yemen. I'm asking you to announce. 1519 registration number, national deputy Yemeni, author. Please put to the vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[10:50:29]] For 297 We'll be in the process. 30 seconds for Oleg Light. And 30 seconds for Michael Papiev after, for justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to remind you that today is December 25. If, by the New Year, this law, which we have just voted for inclusion in the agenda, does not take effect, people will be evicted from their homes from the new year. So I'm asking you, in the morning we'd put this bill in the agenda, there's a committee decision. Let's look at it and vote on the basis and in general, according to the rules of procedure, so that the President can sign it and publish it. In order for people to enter the new year with a guarantee that they will not be evicted from their own homes. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Papiev, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, the opposition bloc faction supports this bill. What's more, we're taking the initiative to have this bill put into the agenda today and voted on both the basis and the whole. Dear colleagues, and I ask you to put this proposal to the vote. We also voted today in violation of the Ukrainian law, but that's another question, "To make changes to the LRA." I'd like us to be right now, before.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u37	Thank you, People's Deputies. I emphasize that I can give my word only on matters that are being considered. I ask the relevant committee, together with the apparatus, to work with the regulatory committee on the proposal to vote this law by the New Year, as announced. Thank you, Your Honor. We're working on it. Dear colleagues, I'd like to concentrate. And so I want to point out. We are now moving on to the important issues related to the adoption of the budget, to the tax money and many other issues to be settled in the budget that we hope to receive before the New Year begins. I realize that so many people today want to talk, to speak. And I think today is not a good time to be working on a television camera, but it's a good time to work on committees, with people, with experts so that we can do very quickly and very well, without wasting time, to prepare drafts from first reading to second reading. This will mean that many of the positions and problems that concern society will be taken into account. In other words, rather than chewing the air, doing the real thing. So I would ask you very much to understand this. I'd like to ask you to put all these bills to a brief vote. Next, we'll go to the committees, work out decisions, including those that have just been announced, which are important. I mean, don't waste time, we don't have that many days. So I would now like to put to the vote all these bills today to follow a reduced procedure, dear friends. I ask you to support this and ask for this proposal to be voted on by my fellow Members of State. Procedure for consideration, by summary procedure. Please vote. [[10:54:34]] For a hundred and Dear colleagues, in summary procedure, what we have said to you is to accept it as a basis in the first reading. On procedural issues, we need 150, questions, 150, decisions taken, we can work. Dear colleagues, if there's any discussion, well, let's take the floor. But the question is, start working real, not on a TV camera, but on the result. That's the way it is. And when we look at it for the second reading, there will be tables, there will be speeches, there will be debates, and there will be factions. We'll take it all into account and everything will be fine. Moreover, I urge the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make their work on the committees as public as possible. Then the drafts that you and I have just approved will be dealt with in an appropriate manner. But this is more important than what we can say in the room right now. Thank you, Your Honor. And the first law that I'm announcing, registration number 1557, is the government's draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (reforming inter-budgetary relations). He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance, Umanski Igor Ivanovich. Igor Ivanovich for the report. Associated with the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u38	Good morning. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies present, you are presented with a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Budgets. The main directions and the essence of the changes that we propose to make to budgetary legislation. First of all, the main objective of this law is to ensure budgetary and financial independence of budgetary relations and the formation of local budgets. To date, local authorities have made these suggestions. local authorities will be able to form local budgets on their own, starting on September 15, which is ahead of schedule, in line with the provisions laid down in the draft budget for September 15, the Government should submit to the Supreme Council accordingly. Whether the State Budget Act has been adopted or not, local authorities will have the opportunity to approve their own budgets by December 25, ahead of the planned budget, on the basis of the powers and opportunities afforded to them by the Budget Code. After the adoption of the State Budget Act, there will be only adjustments and refinements in the percentages of transfers transferred from the state budget to the locals. It also simplifies the procedure for granting local guarantees and introduces the so-called silent agreement principle when local budgets determine the need for borrowing, they inform the Ministry of Finance. In the absence of comments, it is considered automatic. The Ministry of Finance will no longer determine the indicative income figures or lead them to local budgets. The revenue will be directly defined in the Budget Code Law, and local budgets can do so without adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u39	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u40	Local budgets provide stable sources of income generation and expand the existing income base, including: 100 per cent of administrative fees; 100 per cent of government duties; additionally 10 per cent of the income tax on private-sector enterprises; new congregations are being established; it is based solely on local budgets, the so-called excise tax levied from, under the excise group of goods and is being set up by local councils between 2 per cent and 5 per cent on, under the excise group of goods other than cars; and the tax base on real estate is expanding. - one of the most controversial and discussed topics. But the authority to install this tax base is passed on to local councils from 0 to 24 rubles per square meter. There has been an increase in local environmental tax rates from 35 percent to 80 percent today. Local budgets will also have a basic grant to increase fiscal capacity. It is calculated on an average per capita in Ukraine, and those budgets that will have this ratio of less than 0.9 will receive a tax-equity grant for those budgets that have this ratio of more than 1.1 only 50 percent will be eliminated for redistribution to the state budget. To date, the system is completely different, anything that exceeds the income of the local budgets in total terms today is being eliminated to the state budget, anything that is completely funded below the appropriate level from the state budget, which distorts the logic and motivation of the local budgets to increase their income base. A new transfer policy is also being introduced and the responsibility of the ministries of profile for the implementation of State policy in the relevant fields is being strengthened. Today, those delegated powers concerning, including the implementation of educational and medical policies, are proposed to be changed to ensure the responsibility and implementation of this policy through, on the one hand, appropriate ministries, on the other hand, through the application of a formal approach to the distribution of these subsidies in place. The proposed draft amendments to the Budget Code were worked together with relevant associations of different levels, including our external donors, and was generally supported by both our regional colleagues and our expertise. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, co-rapporteur Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, Deputy Head of the Budget Committee. I remind all the national deputies that we will consider in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u42	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, invited, the Committee on Budget Affairs has considered, at its session, draft laws amending the Budget Code under headings 1557, 1537, 1576, which have been tabled by the Government and which have been defined as the first priority, and has adopted the only decisions on these bills. Bill No. 1557 on amending inter-budget relations lays down the basis for new approaches to the formation of local budgets and determines the organisation of inter-budget relations and the revision of the budgetary regulation mechanism. In general, the committee supported such proposals and warned that the adoption and implementation of the legislative initiative involved risks. I'm going to call them separate. First of all, the proposed changes to the budget's income and distribution between different budgets include elements of future changes in tax legislation. First of all, on the issue of property tax reform, the establishment of a local congregation for the sale of excise goods. So our position that the bill should only be adopted in a mutually agreed manner with the adoption of appropriate tax changes. With regard to the unification of the territorial communities, they can also be implemented only if the whole bill on voluntary unification of the territorial communities is adopted. At present, the government has not submitted a bill on the listing of administrative services, although it has already been proposed that fees for individual administrations should be directed to a special State budget fund with a purpose of use. We believe that such an offer is premature and unscheduled. Moreover, certain positions are recognized as requiring further refinement or harmonization. In particular, settling the issue of suspending the borrowing of local budgets for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u43	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u44	made at the expense of a single treasury account, before the issue is settled by law and the establishment of a clear deadline for the cancellation of such debt. It is also necessary to determine the requirements for payment periods and to increase the liability of the Treasury authorities for breaching the relevant requirements. Define whether to include the Government right to set budgetary appointments for newly created public authorities without amending the State Budget Act. In addition, the bill requires further elaboration from the point of view of the harmonization of legal rules and technical and legal requirements. In view of the above, and in view of the fact that the issue of change, the reform of inter-budget relations for the time being is socially needed, the Committee on Budgetary Questions has adopted such a decision. Recommend to the Supreme Council a bill number 1557 to be accepted as a basis. Other drafts under articles 1537 and 1576 are proposed to be considered as proposals by the government in addition to the second reading of Bill 1557. The relevant bill of order is proposed by the committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u45	Thank you. Two for you, two for you. Please sign up. Two for, two against. Please. Please Ostap Semerak, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this is one of the draft laws introduced by the government to implement the reform programme and to approve the budget, which should be considered later. I would like to point out that we, many of us sitting in this room, worked in the local government before working in Parliament. We understand very well the relationship between the top-level and bottom-level budgets. The bill proposed by the government and the faction of the People's Front fully supports and asks our colleagues to support our decision. And I point out that the draft law is able to achieve the decentralization of powers and finance, to strengthen the material and financial basis of local self-government, which today is a major debate in society. The bill will provide local budgets with budgetary and financial autonomy, as is discussed by local government officials, members of parliament, representatives of political parties and public organizations. Similarly, this bill will allow communities to be interested in uniting and forming capable territorial communities that can better ensure the participation of citizens in the management of territorial problems and the resolution of territorial tasks. I refer to members of Parliament, to coalition colleagues, first and foremost, to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u47	Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to point out that all the changes to the Budget Code proposed by the first-reading three bills are exclusively supported by our faction. That's why I'm in favour. But at the same time, I know that there is no MP in this room who would call the word "decentralisation" many times. We know that decentralization is, first of all, more money for local budgets that they can form themselves, manage themselves, and actually increase their income. So I can tell you right now that the proposed changes have no relation to decentralization, no increase in funding for the regions. On the contrary, everything you have just heard in the State budget for 2015 reduces your own and well-established incomes from local budgets, diminishes their right to form budgets on their own. All the changes to the code, they only make organizational arrangements, which can be done by treasury, which cannot, what additional powers are given to ministers and how the indicators are applied to local budgets. But please note that you have to count and read the numbers. In the 2014 budget, the local budget's own and well-established revenues amounted to 111.5 billion, and in 2015, only 104 billion remain after the whole package was adopted. That means much less. In addition, you and I have always analyzed: to decentralize, we need to put more money into the local budget. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u49	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u50	If 42 percent of all the money in the budget went to local budgets in 2014, only 40 percent of the budget. This means that there is no decentralization, no additional funding is provided, and that means that you and I are not in the process of reforming the budget system. There's cosmetic adjustment, it needs to be done, but it doesn't address the issue of fundamental fiscal reform, decentralization of finance. And I also want you to know that they're going to tell you that 39 billion dollars is going to increase the income of local budgets. It's increased on paper, actually it's not going to reach local budgets, because it's not fixed taxes, it's subsidies from a well-established budget. To date, 24 billion have been underfunded since 2014. Next year -- 39 will be underfunded and local budgets will get 14 billion less, I want you to understand that. In addition, a bill, one submitted, removes all benefits without exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u51	Julia Volodymyrna, regulations. I'm embarrassed, but it's been almost four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u52	concerning the use of means of transport. Disabled people are taking away the benefits of transportation, veterans, ATO participants, of all, dear friends, they are coins. And at the same time, 4.7 billion are given to traders, grain traders, an added value tax that they didn't pay. I want to tell you that we will never support 1776 -- the removal of aid for transportation services for disabled people, veterans, Chernobyls, Afghans and so on. And that's why we're willing to vote in the first reading, but it's not budget reform, and it needs, even this, serious redrafting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the following: we have two minutes to make a statement. I understand when you have to finish there for 10 seconds, 20 seconds, but double-time is wrong. So I would ask everyone, including reporters, to follow the rules. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Pinzenick. Tomenko? Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is an unforgivable and contradictory document. From the point of view of the main objective that he would have to decide, the transfer of powers, he's not achieving those goals. Why? Because the local budgets, as government officials, remain. Only the mechanisms of these relationships change. In the past, there was a daily transfer of funds from the state budget through daily accounting standards, and now this system is being replaced by a system of medical, educational and other subsidies. However, since these institutions are being used to maintain the state budget, an additional tax exemption is being made on citizens: 25 percent and 40 percent on Kiev. And in terms of purely arithmetic, the centralization of the budget is even increasing. Actually, I'm going to say that local budgets will get more. Some of it improves the situation by giving local budgets the right to enter a sales tax, even though it's called a "sale excise" and a real estate tax. But it's not even the Budget Code, it's the Tax Code. And I'd add to these rules -- that it would give local budgets the right to decide for themselves the list of the goods for which they set the payments, and limit the limit amount. And secondly, to make a small adjustment to the excise on fuel, to direct them to the construction of local roads, that is to say, to give these costs to local budgets. [[Applause]] What questions of the Codex Budget are of concern? Question one: The budget code essentially wants to cancel the limit on debt limits of 60 percent of GDP. Just as the written edition of this rule essentially deprives the government, it allows the government to go beyond the norm, because today's norm requires action, and the new norm only provides for the development of a plan of action. We have to prevent this from appearing in the codex. There's a question about treasury budgeting. I understand how much everyone is concerned about this problem, but we need to understand where the root of evil is. Imagine you've been asked to accept 200 billion dollars of income and spend 400 billion dollars. No treasury can solve this problem because it's not the treasury, it's the budget balance. We need to respond to this problem because by destroying the only treasury bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u55	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u56	We're losing control of the revenue and expenditure of the budget and the deficit. In addition, treasury has direct control of expenditure because it cannot spend outside the budget. And the last. It is unacceptable that certain rules of the Code of Budgets, which transform the authorities into commercial structures, allow them to work on a commercial basis. I stress that we do not allow these standards to appear in the 29th and 30th articles of the Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u57	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. "The Opposition Block." Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who are they fooling around in this room? What decentralization, when, notice, do they reduce the real income of local budgets, the income tax of natural persons? Much of it is taken into the general fund and compensated for 10 percent of the income tax. At the same time, they say we're expecting a drop in GDP, which means we're not going to count these profits. Next. And our citizens need to know that. Chernobyl, our veterans, a significant number of other socially-needed categories of our citizens, including children of war, are actually sentenced to zero security next year. Why? Because amendments to the Budget Code propose that payments be made at the discretion of the Cabinet of Ministers. The concept of indexation is taken out of the Budget Code by reason of inflation-devalvation losses in general. This is a gross violation of the Constitution. And the Constitutional Court has already determined from this issue that no one has the right to restrict the social guarantees of our citizens. And the government can't help but know if it's Ukrainian. In doing so, I'm asking why subsidies are now limited for the extended passage of our citizens. Think of our neighbors. As soon as they tried to do so, Russia rose immediately! Do you think the Ukrainians will sleep? I think these changes to the Budget Code are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u60	and everyone who votes for these changes is an anti-Ukrainian element and a non-Ukrainian, and is voting against his own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u61	I'd like to say, dear colleagues. All the performances are very good. But they only talk about the only thing that needs to be prepared very carefully for the second reading. Please, Oleg Lazko, did not take part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. With regard to Bill 1557 currently under consideration on amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (reforming inter-budgetary relations), I will not repeat what previous speakers have said. Many of them say exactly what is true. And I'd like to ask the Ministry of Finance and the government not to look at what's going on decentralization, but to have real decentralization. I'm going to show the visibility that the government creates, for example, in one example. Exclusion from Kiev’s budget of a tax on the income of natural persons The draft Budget Code proposes leaving 40 percent of the PDF in the budget of Kiev and 60 percent in the central budget. I think it's definitely wrong. The city of Kiev should use the tax it receives to solve the social problems in Kiev as well as in other regions. That's why we're going to support this bill, but if you leave a tax on the income of the natural person in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u63	Thank you. I want to say one nuance, but it's very important. When it comes to the tax on the income of natural persons. Of course, we're going to be working on this on the committees. But today the city, I'm talking about cities, and the principle is the same. They receive 75 percent of the person’s income tax to the first basket of the budget. Everyone agrees. But this 75 percent is accounted for in the determination of inter-budget transfers, which means that these funds are financed in full by the state's delegated authority, i.e. 75 percent by delegated authority. What's now being proposed in the project that we're going to consider is what we're going to propose. If Kiev is 40 percent, but not the delegated authority of the State, but the authority of the city of Kiev. Today, this budget is going to be zero, and it's going to be 40 percent of the income tax on citizens, plus 10 percent of the income tax on businesses. I've seen this last edition. If there are any changes, we'll look at the committee. But I put that concept into decentralization, and it's been worked out by all the professionals, including it's discussed. Thank you, Your Honor. We'll be on the committees to see if we can't. We'll understand. Anton Yatzenko, please, Economic Development. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I'd call this bill "later feudalism." Why? Well, let's see, for today, Ukraine's State Budget is getting zero from the income tax on individuals. Here, 25 percent is offered. For example, only 15 percent are offered for the income of the district budgets, which are now 25 percent of GDP. And in fact, we have 60 percent going to the general budget of cities, districts and so on. So today, in fact, the government budget of Ukraine is taking from small villages, cities that are 25 percent that they've been given for development. For example, if there is a registered enterprise in a village, today this village will receive no money in this budget, and this is its main income article. So the government budget actually takes money from small towns and cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u65	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u66	Ten seconds. Thank you. So the Economic Development Group, of course, is not going to support this. And we urge all our colleagues, especially the majors, not to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u67	Please, Oleg Berezuk, you didn't take a minute, self-help didn't take part in the discussion. Don't be confused, dear fellows, delegated powers with your own, I'm asking you very much. And that's not gonna be very convenient in front of the people who are dealing with it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u68	That's exactly what I was going to say. Delegates and their own powers are two different. According to this budget, cities can theoretically have more money for their own authority. But it's only theoretical so far. You and I need to be very careful in our second reading. The second question. Villages and small cities are really in danger if we don't change these things. But one more very important thing, we have to limit the Treasury to the end. Unfortunately, our suggestions that the Treasury has a responsibility within two days to secure delegated powers are taken away within five days of its own authorization. If this is not the case, the Treasury will be an arbitrary authority to control the budget of local authorities. And that's one of the key things that we wouldn't give them money, if the Treasury kept it, it wouldn't be like now. Therefore, the second reading is responsible and needs to be treated well, and the first reading supports the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u69	Thank you. Why is it so important that we accepted the first reading? We took the Parliamentary course and continued to work in an articleistic way, both in Treasury and in other ways. Thank you, Your Honor. I propose that we set the stage for both the first reading and the second reading of this question. Is there no objection? One, one, one minute from the non-faction. One. Sign up, colleagues. One, register with the non-fractionals. One minute, please, and everyone made a statement. Tree of Yuri, nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u70	May I have the floor to Sergio Mishchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u71	Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u72	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. Let's imagine the electoral process where some party or major on its boards and in its advertising materials says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, the Treasury, which, in manual mode, will redistribute the funds of local communities and will not let them be blocked. No, decentralization because decentralization doesn't exist, because last year it's 111 billion, and that's 104 billion, minus 7 billion. If it was 127 billion, I'd know it was decentralization. When it comes to ordinary things, for example, no casualties on Maidan. You're making changes to the budget that the public protesters don't get anything. Whatever you get.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall. Please call the deputies to your workplace. Everything we haven't agreed on right now is on second reading. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come to the hall and prepare for the vote. I lay the groundwork for the first reading of the Ukrainian Adoption Act as the basis for the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code, number 1557, on the basis of the first reading and reading. Dear colleagues, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. On the basis of the first reading, I said, colleagues. On the basis of the first reading. [[11:27:36]] For 264 Decision taken. 43 — against, 7 — abstained, 64 — did not vote. There's no point in not accepting it today. We accept and work on committees throughout each article. Otherwise, we'll never get out of the gap that we have in life, including decentralization, but we need to put it in a real document, not just talk like air from the rostrum. Thank you. We turn to the next bill, 1576, the Law of Ukraine amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine (for protected expenses), Deputy Minister Matvijczuk Volodymyr Makarović. The reporter is Melnik. I don't think we should give a co-report, he's fully informed us about the committee's work. So please, Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! You have introduced a bill to amend the Budget Code in the following parts. We have a number of issues that are not yet regulated by the Code of Budgets according to modern requirements. For example, we get the money from the realisation of property rights for movies, the original material for movies and movies created at budget costs. These funds need to be included in the government budget. This is foreshadowed. These changes also include protection of cultural institutions in the budget code. This is very important, museums where there are significant material values and so on. In addition, the bill provides for improvements in the rules for the submission of budgetary requests to the judiciary and so forth, which are essentially technical. I ask, honourable people's deputies, to accept the amendments to the Budget Code in this part on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u75	I don't understand. We're voting on the basis. Well, that's a nice request. Colleagues, is there a need 2 in, 2 in? It is, isn't it? No, or on a base. 2 in, 2 in, 2 in. Please write 2 in, 2 in. Vladimir Makarovich, sit down. Actually, have a seat. Paul Ungurian, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u76	My fellow Members, I think this bill is also one of the bills passed by the government for our further decentralization into the financial system. The only thing we can do for the committee that the co-rapporteur has announced under the previous bill is either to base the bill on it and to unite it in preparation for the second reading of the basic bill - 1557, as well as other amendments. And also, the next bill that goes on is another additional amendment. There is a suggestion that, in preparation for the second reading, all three bills, of which Bill 1557 is the most thorough and fundamental, should be merged into a single bill. That is why there is such an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u78	Deputies! Our proposal, however, is to consider it when it comes to the second reading of the basic bill. Because of the exclusion of compensation from government social protection programs for the extended passage of individual categories of citizens. This issue should be addressed in a comprehensive manner by making appropriate suggestions to articles that determine the costs of local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, the Opposition Block, Dunaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear Sir, your head! Dear National Deputies! I want to point out that this bill is essentially antisocial and anti-national. We have no moral right to vote for the bill, we have no right to support it. Because this is about state support for the most socially unprotected population, namely, exclusion from the State budget, from the Budget Code of Ukraine to the category of protected expenditure to compensate for the indemnification of individual categories of citizens, disability benefits, children with disabilities and persons with disabilities of the first group and children with disabilities. It's the least socially-protected population. I don't think they're pulling very large costs from the State Budget. Please do not support this antisocial, anti-national legislative initiative of the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention to the problem of funding oncological children? Two years ago, we had only 20 percent of the funding for cancerous children. The Ochmadit Trust Council has broken through the amendment to the state lottery bill for the creation of a special fund, and we are guaranteed the only ones who had funding for the purchase of drugs on the sick children of Ukraine. This year we had 135 million -- that's from the general fund, and we had a special fund. Aah! Sorry, the general fund is 196 and the special fund is 150. Thus, 315 million dollars of medicines were purchased. Now, the Cabinet of Ministers, by putting this whole special fund into the general fund, is going to leave us 135 million dollars, even with a small increase, it's going to be 155, which is twice as much money, given the inflation. How will children in our country be treated if there is no more medicine?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, in a minute, Fatherland, Economic Development. In a minute. Cool, please. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u85	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to vote on this bill as a basis, only if we rule in the vote order on the basis that a paragraph is excluded, in accordance with which compensation for the invalids, children with disabilities and persons with disabilities are deducted. What the government has proposed is to cancel the disability benefits, that is, in fact, not to do so. Therefore, these amendments to the Budget Code can only be voted on if this paragraph is excluded. And secondly, we voted on Decree 1557, and we based the bill on amending the Code of Budgets. In accordance with this provision, paragraph 2 clearly states that the provisions of Bill 157 will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Yatzenka, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, well, this law is really closely related to the following law 1577 and to the previous one that we voted on. What does that mean? On the one hand, they're taking money from local budgets, and they're saying it's going to be good for the subsidies. On the other hand, the next law, 1576, which we are currently considering, provides for a clear abolition of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets to compensate for the tax travel of individual categories of citizens. And who are these particular categories? According to the government, these categories do not deserve free passage, they are children of multi-child families, citizens affected by CHAES, participants in hostilities, and even persons with disabilities of war and with disabilities of 1-3 groups and veterans of labor and others. That is, we cannot vote for this law in any way; it is an anti-national law. And first of all, I ask all majors to pay attention to this. Because you've been chosen by people. So the Economic Development Group is not going to support this law and the next 1577. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u88	Thank you. Please don't trade it, it's not a law, it's a bill, it's a bill. Then, when he's voted, you'll be looking at him on the committees, and the committees of the deputies will give their recommendations. After that, they will vote in the hall. Dear colleagues, don't bargain, please. From the non-faction, a minute, write down, the first one gets the word. And we vote on the basis after the non-fractionals speak. Krulko is a factionist. Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u89	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. If we now vote on this bill in this way, I can assure you exactly how this is going to happen. If today people who are suffering from haemodialysis and need 2-3 times a week to go to a hospital in Kiev or the White Church (this is in the Kyiv region) to get it, they will no longer go. What is it for them? It's death. If the Chernobylites who need treatment, if the disabled who need treatment, the pensioners who need treatment and have benefits, do not go to the district or the city hospital, because they have a pension of 900 dollars and they have an enormous cost every month for transportation. So this is how we kill our defenseless citizens so that they don't go to treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u90	I have heard many variations on this subject, but do not let anyone in the room make decisions that kill people. Therefore, MPs should identify those categories that need support, provide real support to these people, and make sure that they live and are treated well rather than suffer. Please, Victor Pinzenik, a minute from Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to pay attention so that we do not create problems. We've just heard two draft amendments to the Budget Code from one initiator, from the government. If we adopt two of their laws, there will be a situation where there may be a conflict of norms, by right to one and to another we will create a conflict of norms. So I'd like to listen to the budget committee's proposals. We voted in our first reading the basic Law on Changes to the Budget Code. Decision - making: To entrust a budget committee with the preparation of a basic law (I do not remember the number) to take into account the proposals provided for in this law. And then we're going to have one document -- and there's not going to be a conflict of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u92	All right, good fellows. I think it's going to be perfect for everyone. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have expressed the principled position, and we will now determine by voting. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik made a very good offer to give the committee a commission to bring him in, to process him for second reading. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u93	One more moment, I'd like to emphasize, dear colleagues. It's on the first reading, you and I will be preparing a draft for the second reading. No, we can't reject the amendment. What are you talking about? I then put to the vote Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik (for commissioning the committee and further processing). There are no risks, colleagues. Don't exaggerate, there's no risk. Please put to the vote. I am voting on Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's proposal not to vote on this bill, but to instruct the Committee on Budgets to prepare changes to the Budget Code, taking into account these proposals, which contain the provisions of this law, and to continue to determine its support. People's Front, please, Semiraq. Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, Ostap Semerak, People's Front. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to what the Rules of Procedure Act says about the procedure for preparing the law for the second reading. And novels, articles that are not in the project, cannot be introduced. So I would ask you to put to the vote a separate bill introduced by the government, which has the number 1576. The reporter was Matthew, deputy minister of finance. And vote it as a basis, and put it on the Budget Committee so that they can work. Because the proposal made by Viktor Mikhailovich puts in conflict with the Rules Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u95	That's right. Then I want to put 1576 to the vote as a basis, and then I want you to work together on the committees and make your proposals. Please, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! We ask you to support in the first reading on one condition that there will be a rule that will not be compensated and removed free passage from children with disabilities, from the disabled and from the group and accompanying them. Then please take the second reading. Everything else we're ready to work on. We have suggestions on how to give them discounted travel tickets, as was done in the government of Yulia Timoshenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u97	Budget Committee, please, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement on the basis of the vote. The second paragraph of the previous regulation stated: “The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues to finalize the draft bill on State capital investments” (Registration No. 1537). We voted to consider this in our second reading. What are we talking about? Why do we need to vote again on what has been voted on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u99	1576 we put it to a vote, I understand? Please put to the vote 1576. No, well, there's an offer. We don't get it. We'll think about it. 1576 in the first reading. We work together and no one wants to. [[11:45:16]] For-136 None. None. Then there's a proposal to put Victor Mikhailovich to the vote. Please, Pinzenik Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! Let us listen once again to what Sergey Ivanovich Melnik, deputy head of the budget committee, said. In fact, another clarification is very important when we voted on basic Law 1557 on amendments to the Budget Code, and it turns out that we have voted and voted on a rule that takes into account the position of the bill in preparation for the second reading of draft Law 1557. So, in fact, we don't have to vote, but it's up to the budget committee to take these rules into account when preparing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u101	Thank you. It's an assignment. The committee, please, I'm giving you the commission to deal with position 1577, let's go back to his government more precisely. 1576. [[B in m in s a l in]] He'll just count in the vote. That's not what this decision's all about. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] From motive before. Next, Honorable Colleagues, 1577. Matvijczuk Vladimir Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u102	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! You have before you a bill amending some laws of Ukraine and recognizing them as invalid, some legislative acts of Ukraine (registration number 1577). The bill provides for amendments to 66 laws and recognitions that have lost the validity of 5 Supreme Council decrees. The purpose of this bill. In the East of Ukraine there is a war, there is a need for order in the use of budgetary resources, greater efficiency in the use of budgetary resources, and the establishment of state defence and security spending at least 5 per cent of gross domestic product. To clarify the position of legislative acts in relation to modern requirements, to eliminate differences in various legislative acts, and ultimately to protect the poorest citizens. To this end, the primary objective is to reduce expenditure on public authorities, not to allow for an increase in the cost of maintaining government officials under the conditions of an antiterrorist operation. I want to remind you again, the State Service Act is halting, 28 billion dollars, we can't raise the civil servants' wages more than twice at the moment, we can't. Set the number of special pensions from 60, to 60 percent instead of the current 70-80, so that the pension is given to employees of public authorities as any employee in any enterprise. Cancelling payments to a civil servant who can resign and then earn 85 percent of the salary, rank, and service payments for 20 years. Cancelling the recalculation of special pensions at the time of promotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u103	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u104	And so on. In the budget area, there is also a reduction in the number, meaning internal affairs officials, prosecutors and so on. And it's like that. I also want to say that the time has come when benefits should be paid depending on the income of the citizens, well, they can't just be given to anyone. The Committees of the Supreme Council will address this issue. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u105	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u106	The Cabinet of Ministers agrees that in the Supreme Council decision, it will be written by the Cabinet of Ministers on the results of the 2015 budget implementation to deal with the improvement of the social welfare aid system for the most vulnerable categories of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u107	Thank you. Correspondent Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, your attention is given to draft Act No. 1577, which proposes to amend the 66 legislative acts of Ukraine, which cancel the hands around the benefits and payments to individual categories of persons and change the order of their implementation and review the level of social guarantees. The committee understands that in the face of a deep financial crisis and military action in Ukraine, we are adopting a survival budget for the following year. And we need to optimize government spending. But at the same time, the committee stands in the position that education in Ukraine is guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. There are also our MPs ’ obligations laid down in the Coalition Agreement on the Inadmissibility of Deplorable Paying of Teachers and Other Workers. We are also aware that, under such difficult conditions, it is not advisable to remove from the laws the social security standards of Ukrainian citizens who will put them on the verge of survival. In practice, such standards can be suspended for a period of time. Because their removal from the law will lead to inevitable stagnation for many years, particularly in the education system and in the prospect of worsening the situation in the country as a whole. Then we offer a balanced and constructive approach. There's part of the rules that we can discuss and work on and even accept. There are rules in this bill. But there are those we can never go to. In particular, the non-admission of amendments to Ukraine's legislative acts will result in a reduction in the salaries of teachers, scientists and educators. When they're removed, they're proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u109	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u110	Honorary colleagues, 18 professional committees, have drawn their conclusions on the bill. Most of these conclusions are for reprocessing, to reject. In this regard, we believe that this bill should be sent for further work. We're ready. [[Applause]] We are willing to work fruitfully with the Ministry of Finance, with the entire Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u111	Let me finish, it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u112	work constructively. Once again, I reaffirm that there is a part of the norms of this bill that we are prepared to adopt and consider. But there is a binding part that we are obliged to remove.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u113	Lilia Mikhailna, what if we're on first reading as a basis? You mean just to come back? A lot of things. I see. Thank you. Thank you. Please 2 in, 2 in. Fatherland, Schlemko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u114	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u115	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u116	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. We support the committee's decision, I work on this committee, we can't even take this bill in the first reading. It should be sent for processing immediately. Before what she said, Lilia Mikhailovna, a few important things that I can't help but say. It is proposed that the benefits of passages for persons with disabilities, war veterans, laborers, war children, the Chernobylites, victims of Nazi persecution, political repression, and, attention, be paid to the injured participants in Maidan. They just passed the law, we're calling it off! What is it?Oh, my God! Next. Of course, the absolute majority of these people are a category of disabled people. There are 2 million 832 thousand. Most people with disabilities receive a pension of 949 dollars. In terms of purchasing power, it's 2009. What about the drugs, and the other drugs, my friends? It's genocide. Next. We can't make a living, we can't make a living, we can't make a living, we've only got one in four. Next. The adoption of the proposed changes will cause mass closure throughout Ukraine of preschool, non-school, general education, vocational and higher education institutions of municipal property. This is especially true of the village. There will be serious coalitions in part to meet the constitutional requirement for compulsory full and general secondary education. Friends, is education offered in 10-11 classes on their own account, and the Constitution? Friends, it is suggested that schools be reorganized and eliminated without the consent of the respective local communities. Count it down, close it up -- essentially 9 out of 10 schools in the countryside. Next, it is suggested that the students, the teachers, the students, and the students be taken away. employees of the right to pay-as-you-go, to take out children and socio-sensitive groups of free hot food. Cancel extra payments to teachers for other types of pedagogical activities, cancel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u117	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u118	Cancel all benefits – by scientific level, by scientific title. Science in general will dictate this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u119	Thank you. "Peter Prashenko's Block", national deputy Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich. "Clock of Petra Dustenka"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u120	Can we get out of here? Deputies! I support that opinion -- both the Committee on Education and Science and a number of deputies -- that the law needs to be sent to work. Yes, the situation is quite difficult and difficult with the budget. But what the Cabinet of Ministers and especially the Ministry of Finance has done with a number of laws that are being drafted here is not worthy of the Ministry of Finance. Because in fact, the primary education system is being destroyed. And what's particularly surprising is that something that is most affected by this bill is the education system, both general and preschool and higher education. And I'm pointing out to everyone that the only categories that are actually reducing wages since January 1st are teachers, teachers and science teachers. So, in my opinion, there are a number of rules that we can agree to with some of their cuts, taking into account the situation in the country, but those standards that apply, first and foremost, to pay for work, to pay for direct wages, should be excluded. So my proposal is to go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u121	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, "Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u122	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! You can't just understand what the Cabinet of Ministers is talking about by referring to war. I feel like the Cabinet of Ministers needs a war to cover up their absolute incompetence and inaction. [[Applause]] That's the first one. If this is such a big problem, make an offer to limit the operation of this law in 2005. The other one. The act of grabbing and thieving these laws, thinking that people don't know anything, is absolutely immoral. People know everything, they've all read what's in these laws. I think it's a bill that dictates a village and a village to die! [[Applause]] And the deputy majors, I'm addressing, I need to either write statements and make credentials, because in the district after that, do nothing. Next thing you know, if we're talking about needing a survival budget, let's say what survival plan, how can people survive, and then we'll make decisions. And evil is reported by the reporter: he speaks of 66 laws, he speaks of officials, he says all things correctly, but he does not say a word about education and medicine. The village survives at the expense of education and medicine. It will die definitively, and you will look for the guilty, as you have searched for 20 years, at the same time. With this approach, dear colleagues, we need to make one decision: to transfer the right to form a budget and to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It all says that everything is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's not how criminal power did it! [[Applause]] Next, the responsibility of the local authorities is taken down, and all powers are concentrated in the government and it's called decentralization in Ukraine. And finally, we can't let the useful idiots continue to leave the country permanently to the mice, let's understand their responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, you know, I'd like to propose. I'd like to suggest we get him back. Everyone wants to take my initiative to get him back into the government for work. Yeah? Are you insisting on the performance, Oleg Valeriyovich? Please, Oleg Lazko. And then I'll give you a word from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u124	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We regret to note that the 1577 bill we are currently considering is an anti-national bill. Makarovich, Matviyczuk, who reported that you should be interrupted on the Maltese Cross for introducing such shameful laws from the government. And all governments need to be set up. Minister of Finance, I'm calling you, Mrs. Jaresko! I realize that in the United States, perhaps people and benefits are not needed because they have decent insurance, wages, pensions, and so forth. Go to our villages and tell them that you'll close the hospital, that you'll close the school, that a disabled child won't be able to get to a school because they have nothing to do with getting benefits that you're disposing of. You children of dead ATO participants are deprived of the right to learn. We have a war going east, parents are giving their lives away, and you are depriving the children of these parents of learning and receiving appropriate education. Listen, when you talk about reforms -- start reforming yourself, start reforming the oligarchs, start reforming the power, not the ordinary Ukrainian citizens. They're through this disgraceful 23-year-old authority, and when Litvin Vladimir Mikhailovich comes out telling us that the criminal authorities didn't do it, those bastards did it even worse, they killed people in Maidan, they shot them, and they want to take the means to exist. So we definitely don't support this bill and we say no to the genocide of Ukrainian citizens. Reforms start with oligarchs, soak up fat, take money from them! And do not touch those who are not to be touched! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u125	Oleg Beresuk. Then there's Natalia Royal. Then Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say very simply. Not only is this law criminal because of its content but it is also criminal because it is insanely unprofessional and indiscreetly prepared. I am addressing the Minister of Finance officially with a request from the National MP: to get an explanation from the people who were preparing this law and to release them from their jobs because of the frenzied inequity of preparing this law. It's a provocation! Because mixing cabbage with peas, quality things with disgusting and unprofessional criminals is criminally unprofessional. Freed from work until the end of today!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u127	Colleagues, I think it's quite obvious what kind of decision we're going to make right now. Control your emotions. Please, Queen. Please, Queen, give me a minute. Then Lucenko. And that's it, and we're going back. And let's put a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, Project 1577 is another anti-social anti-government gift from the Cabinet of Ministers. But the Opposition Block believes that after such gifts, the government should resign. Because it is clear that we will not hear anything good from them. And they will never do anything good for anyone. When we heard today how all the factions of the coalition said that it was not a working government, a government that was unable to start reforms from the richest, to start reforms from the oligarchs, to start reforms from the deputies of our parliament. And the government, which today is harassing the most underprivileged people, is taking the last piece of bread from people. Therefore, the opposition bloc categorically opposes the bill and categorically opposes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u129	Yuri Lucenko, please. That's it, that's it. Yuri Lucenko, that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u130	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. We have to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers, who did not listen to the coalition's wishes before the bill was passed, is now receiving results. To introduce a bill that starts the struggle for economics from the poorest and most important in this country, I mean disabled people and teachers, is wrong. So we also support the idea of sending him out for work. But, dear colleagues, if we are to accept this year's budget, we must at the same time commit the government and the committees of profile to consider this bill today and tomorrow to submit it to normal tomorrow or tomorrow, without compromising the poorest and most important levels of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u131	Thank you. So what, we're going to the government for work? Let's, let's send, let's put it to a vote -- send it to the government for work. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. Or the committee? The government's got some work to do. That's the offer. The government's got some work to do. Put it to the vote. For one day. To the government for work for 1 day. Please vote. Put it in the government for further work. [[12:07:40]] For 175 [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies are coming along, they say they haven't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u132	Take your place, please, a distinguished national MP. On the way back, I say again, the two deputies are on their way. I have to re-set the rules on their request. They did not vote. Dear colleagues! Careful! Invite people's deputies to the National Assembly Hall. Let's put it back, as the committees have said, to work for the government. The government is working on it, bringing it in, and we'll take another look at it. What are you doing to make such a tragedy? I'm betting on the vote to return to the government. Please vote, Your Honor, to return to the government for processing. Please vote, please vote. Let's go back, they'll look at it. Maybe they'll bring in more quality. To be made into a government. [[12:08:49]] For-170. This decision is not made. Thank you, let's move on to the next one. Calm down. Ostap Semiraq, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u133	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Wait a minute! Let's calm down. As soon as we considered the bill, we heard a report from the minister, the deputy minister, the committee representative. The government's draft Adoption Order was introduced in the first reading. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm talking to the coalition representatives. Stop speaking like that, 'cause in the Opposition Block, your hands are sore. We have to take responsibility. Of course, this bill is difficult, it needs to be worked out on the committee for the second reading. But we need to understand that there is a complex story. And we need to organize the extended benefits that we have in the last 23 years. So I am very much asking to put to the vote the government's decision to adopt the first reading. And allow the committee to work on this bill within the necessary parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u134	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, obviously this bill as a "constitutional social genocide" will not be accepted in this room. He doesn't have a vote, and he won't. And that's why I'm proposing that I withdraw this question in the first place, reject this bill. The government is tasked with submitting another bill, but which would provide for the cancellation of benefits for judges, prosecutors, representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and so on. And to remind Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk that according to the United Nations international standards, poverty is considered by those living on $5 a day. According to our calculations, Ukrainians live on $1.5-2 a day. They are one foot in the world because of this policy, especially those who spoke in this room. Don't touch ordinary citizens! Take the oligarchs, prosecutors and judges and the government and ministers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u136	Pashinsky, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I share the indignation of our colleagues, but I want to remind you of one thing. We, all of us speaking, represent the coalition formed by the government. If we have such a strong rejection of this bill, the factions that have issued the Minister of Education, the Minister of Social Policy, the Minister of Finance, should recall their ministers and then return the bill. [[Applause]] The Parliamentary Coalition is responsible for the government. And you don't have to pin that responsibility on the Prime Minister. I don't like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u138	All of it. Dear colleagues, we did not vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the unvoted bill, we turn to the next law. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, no? What, no? What, no? Please give me a minute, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u139	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. If this bill is adopted, there will be turmoil in the country, there will be opposition in the country, and then Putin will applaud. And that's why those who introduce these bills think with your head what you're doing. As far as procedure is concerned. Vladimir Borisovich, if there is no support for the decision to send a bill to the government for further work, please put this bill as a basis if the bill is not supported, it is considered rejected in accordance with the Rules and everyone. Please carry out your duties as Head of the Supreme Council and comply with the Rules of Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u140	Please, Sergey Pashinsky, his microphone has been turned off. I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u141	One minute, dear friends. The People's Front faction believes that this law needs further development. Let me remind you what pre-processing is. We accept it in the first reading and work together. This morning, this morning, the prime minister of Ukraine agreed with our arguments. We have to work on the drafts, not be completely critical. I agree with previous speakers, there are shortcomings, and our faction also points to these shortcomings, and these shortcomings of this law need to be rectified. I would like to vote on the first reading, work on it, and then put it into the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u142	Colleagues, now, come on, come on, you, let's not direct, please, fellow MPs, sit down, there's Rule 114 of the article. The return is not over, I will now lay the foundation for it. Please. Nestor Schuffritch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am addressing my colleagues from the pro-Coalition faction. This is no opposition to you for this law, and against this law, the people of Ukraine are speaking against it! And today he has united this hall! Protest against this law, its inadmissibility has united the country today, because we will not allow ourselves to be washed over teachers and our people with disabilities. And today, you say correctly, those ministers who have prepared this law together with your Government must resign. And now I propose to put the law to the vote in accordance with the Rules and we will see who is today as a nation and who is against the people. We demand that the law be put to the vote, as required by the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u144	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, we have a Deputy Prime Minister, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u145	I literally have one comment to make, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u146	30 seconds, please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u147	Comment, Mr. Shufrich. You don't applaud, because the coalition is offering to take out the poorest people, but to lay the richest ones in your faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, Viacheslav Kirilenko, from the government. I ask you to take your seats, national deputies. I've heard all of you, and Ukraine has already heard that everyone is very concerned about everything, obviously, colleagues. It is clear that there are huge patriots here. I can see that. The decision has already been made that he won't be voted out right now, but you're using the rostrum to get out and show us what's nice and what's good. So I ask you to consider this when you go out to the rostrum. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, Vice Prime Minister, attention. And have respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u149	Honourable National MPs, honourable members of the ruling parliamentary coalition, have passed 42 bills to ensure that the budget's income is filled for the next year and start and start some reforms. At the same time, the non-adoption of this bill virtually nullifies any discussion, consultation, discussion on the 2015 State Budget Project. There is no law, no budget. So our proposal, you know, can't be a controlling coalition and opposition at one point of view. These points of view should be different. So for the ruling coalition we have a proposal, please vote in favour of drafting this bill tomorrow in one day. Give me 226 votes. Together with the factions of the coalition, we will be working again tomorrow, responding to all the comments made by the coalition factions, and then we will be discussing this bill and the draft state budget on Sunday. Otherwise we don't see a way out. Otherwise, it is already a matter of the political process.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u150	That's right. That's right. You should. So let's do it again. I'll put the vote back. Okay. Return to the government for pre-processing, one day. Vote please, Your Honor. To be drafted into the government for one day, please vote, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to vote. To return to the government for a period of work. And then we're going to figure out what to do about it. [[12:18:22]] For 257 Decision taken. [[Applause]] My colleagues, look, there's one thing I want to tell you. I haven't been working in Parliament that long. The factions. But I would like to address you with great respect and respect, dear friends. Calm down, please. Now, look, this looks amazing, I think that when you understand the complexity of the question, when you understand that there are maybe a lot of questions about the quality of the document, as professional people, you should get back to the government for the first time. The government's gonna work it out, it's gonna come back. If we decide, we vote in the first reading, we work on the committees, we go into the agreed position. I speak for the opposition today, and for the coalition, and for all the other groups that don't join the opposition, or the coalition, or the national MPs. But what you're doing is, when you just feel like you're somewhere to get caught up in, just to get to the rostrum, to move around, I don't think it's right. It's not right from the point of view that we're delaying the process in a way that's not results-oriented. I'm not teaching anyone to live, I'm addressing again, I'm stressing those who haven't heard, with great respect for every national MP and with great respect. And this teaching, and this request, has to be distinguished, yes. I respect each and every one of you, and I want both of you to respect each other and respect the people who chose us. Dear friends, now we have a schedule, I have to announce a 30-minute announcement, and at 12:45, we'll be back with you in the session room to discuss the agenda. Thank you for your understanding and attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, we must begin our work. I'd like to ask the secretariat to invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. We're starting our work. Or continue our work. I would suggest at all that we work now until the end of the day without the announcement of a break from 14 to 16. We'll work on the committees in the afternoon and take a closer look. In this regard, I would like to offer you the following thing. The following bills are not discussed in the first reading, and the committees continue. If there's something very conflicting, then we'll bring it in. No, well, you're national deputies, you can figure out another procedure. Nice, listen to Michael Papiev's offer: right away, everyone in general to adopt laws. But we're against it. As Head Against, I think my colleagues too, because we need to talk and prepare them for the second reading. The Secretariat, please invite the national deputies. Faction leaders, please invite deputies to the session room. We're starting our work, distinguished national MPs. A bill (registration number 1578) is presented for your consideration. Draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and certain laws of Ukraine on tax reform. Reported to Deputy Finance Minister Dennis Alexanderovich Fudashkin, please report to the rostrum. The head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nasirov Roman Mikhajlovich, will report. I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that we are considering a reduced procedure. So I would ask everyone to follow the rules, and the technical services to follow the rules according to the short-term procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to focus on your work, and once again, I would like to emphasize, dear colleagues, first of all, that we are looking at the drafts in the first reading. This means that between the first and the second readings. Thanks to the work of national deputies on committees, as well as representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, ministers and their deputies, we will work with you on the decisions that will be made in the final voting room. There may then be discussions on articles that are controversial. We agreed on that yesterday, today. I would ask that we follow this approach, since there is still much work to be done on the Committees of the Supreme Council. Is there no objection to such an approach? And I would also like to inform you that for the second day in a row, we have representatives of the public in the Supreme Council who are in the Supreme Council Hall, watching as the national MPs consider the bill. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] And let us always remember that people are looking very closely at our work. Please, Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u152	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The government proposes to accept changes to tax legislation, which are constructed as follows. The government is proposing to reduce taxes from 22 to 9, leaving income tax, income tax, value added tax, excise collection, environmental tax, rent, customs, and local taxes: property tax and only tax. This will allow you to ask the administration procedure, reduce the workload on the business involved in tax accounting, reporting. Some taxes are cancelled, some being merged by a single base and subject. Very significant supply of income tax changes. I want to point out that today tax payers are actually doing double accounting: one is financial reporting, the other is tax reporting. The government proposes to go to financial reporting only to determine the tax base. In doing so, the taxpayer chooses either international financial reporting standards or national financial reporting standards. I want to emphasize that companies that have turnover of up to 20 million a year are 95 percent of all taxpayers. The tax base is determined solely by financial reporting, without any limitations or adjustments. Only large payers, which make up 5 percent of the total, the financial result determined by the financial report, will be adjusted to 3 groups of tax differences. That's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u153	I've just announced at the bookstore. Please, hold on. Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u154	It's about depreciation, it's about financial spending, it's about fine capitalization. The government also proposes to increase the liability tax from 15 percent to 20 percent. The government also has advanced proposals for electronic administration of the added tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u155	Regulation. Please have a seat. Take your seats. Dear colleagues, please we have 1578-1, Ukrainian national deputy Golovko Mikhailo Josifovich. National Deputy Golovko Mikhailo Yosifovich. Is it? You don't? No, no, he's a reporter in 1578. Now, now. Then the committee, then the reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u156	Good afternoon. Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable deputies, colleagues. I actually proposed the bill number 1578-1, which is to introduce an alternative bill to the Tax Code, the Customs Code, because we think that these changes proposed by the government are unacceptable. Because we've heard that today we see instead of loud statements that are declining tax burdens, we've seen it increase, including from taxes on the income of individuals from 17 percent to 20 percent, and so on. We talked about decentralization of tax burden inside, including local budgets. We've seen the opposite of centralization. Again, the pressure on small and medium businesses is increasing. We said we'd tax the oligarchs. At the same time, we see that there is no tax for oligarchs. And that's for the rent of gas and oil. They left it the same size and did not take the index into account. And we understand that this is a loss to the state budget of about a billion dollars a year. And for today's course, these are huge costs. We're talking about that there's no money in the social budget that teachers, doctors, students don't have. That the funds will not have local self - control. At that time, no one wants to tax the oligarchs. Once again, they are given the benefits. And the snort is aimed at closing down on small and medium businesses, on ordinary Ukrainians. Once again, the village will not receive funds, nor will the authorities of local self - government. So our task is to do everything for this, society, I propose to support our bill. Including increasing excise duty on alcohol and tobacco for the alcoholic and tobacco mafia, which is now parasitic to the nation’s health. And we see how fast the Ukrainians are dying. Instead, they earn billions. I propose that, according to our suggestions, the oligarchs should share their profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, head of the committee, Nasirov. Roman Mikhailovich is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u158	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meetings from 23 to 24 December considered a draft Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain laws of Ukraine on Tax Reform No. 1578, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to point out that, over the course of two weeks, national MPs, members of the committee, have worked in working groups to improve the number of provisions that the bill provides for. Regrettably, I must say that the Ministry of Finance did not listen to the proposals and did not take them into account. Thus, when discussing a bill at a committee meeting, members of the committee made substantial comments. This is primarily the case with the introduction, as of January 1, 2015, of the legalization of citizens' incomes through the single voluntary declaration of all types of income and assets. On the one hand, in support of such government purposes, members of the committee cannot agree with the proposed revenue legalization mechanisms. The introduction of indirect methods of determining income and expenditure for natural persons in the proposed bill could lead to numerous violations of citizens’ rights and freedoms, possible corruption and abuse by officials, authorities and courts. The committee proposes that in the first quarter of the next year, together with the government, a clear, simple and easy-to-understood tax policy be developed for citizens and that a harmonized bill be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration. Another equally important issue is the introduction of the added cost electronic tax administration system on January 1, 2015. For this reason, I am aware that the Committee of December 17 was supported on the basis and as a whole by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to cancel the electronic administration of the added tax).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u159	Let me finish with the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u160	In addition, members of the committee feel it is necessary to cancel the electronic tax administration system at the added cost. You have to make the final decision. And year after year, the government is trying to destroy the export component of grain and technology. Everyone knows perfectly well that a direct producer is unable to export grains on his own. The committee was given a decision by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, proposing that the draft legislation on non-reparation of VAT be repealed to exporters of grain and technical crops.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u161	Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u162	People’s deputies, members of the committee, also supported such a decision. Briefly on other issues. The proposed mechanism for taxing the immovable property of legal and physical persons is highly dissatisfaction. In addition, the bill introduces a nonderogable, indisputable order for the collection of funds from taxpayers. The position is unacceptable. Since January 1, 2015, a new concept of corporate income taxation has been introduced. The position is also unacceptable. They don't support national MPs, they don't support committee changes in the concept of inheritance taxation. And the last. Taking into account the relevance of the bill and taking into account the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (number 1578) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u163	Let me finish my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u164	Excluding the positions that are reflected in the draft decrees and that have been wiretapped to me. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u165	Thank you. Thank you. Two for, two for, please. "Fatherland," Abdulin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u166	Kugel, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u167	Alexandra Kugel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u168	We have not voted in favour of the summary procedure, for we have to say in a moment what we should consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u169	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u170	Three?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u171	Two.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u172	Well, thank you, for two. The honorable government, unfortunately, here is the only lady here, my dear Natalia Jaresko, I mean, the worst thing we have to say is that the government that we chose as a professional government, there was no party, there, quotas, please tell us what we expected? We were looking forward to reform. Is there any money in this Tax Code, one minister for reforms in his ministry? I beg you, I can't hear you talking about tax cuts. Well, tell people honestly, not a shortcut, but a merger. And from that, you know, transfusions don't go away. As for taxes you're canceling. The Fatherland faction strongly opposes the cancellation of the rent for transportation. I want to bring it. Don't be distracted, Minister, I'm asking you very much, I want her to hear it. Mrs. Natala, the cancellation of the rent for transportation cannot be and not only leave it for a year, as you just predicted, but it should remain. I'll give you an example that you haven't calculated in your ministry and that I'm offering you. You leave five and one bracelets in the Tax Code, which means that the state receives three and eight dollars. I've counted it, Mrs. Natalia, if we put one and eight dollars in rent, I'll give you an extra raise with the "Paternity" team in the budget of about 390 million dollars. And so on and so on. Next, the "Fatherland" faction supports the decision that the Committee has prepared on tax and customs policy, provided that on second reading, our proposals will be taken into account. First of all, with regard to the rules of the Tax Code for the Organization of Persons with Disabilities and the Taxation of Lands, regarding the cancellation of advance payments from enterprises, I apologize for the amount of credit available to the country. Look, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u173	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u174	You don't know what to get out of the village. And the cars have to be four, and they have to take this rule down to the villages of two and five, because these are all the cars in the village. Save and re-emphasize the rent, and remove the benefits from those technologies. Look, we don't invest anything, we just take the money out of these people and we keep our intellectual potential. And yet, Mrs. Natalia, we propose to introduce a tax code that increases, I emphasize, the income portion of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Princess Nicholas, People's Front. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u176	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that our faction supports this bill as a basis, but obviously we demand that it be redrafted. Work on the situation in which our country is. We're talking about weapons, medicine. We're not talking about an education that we're gradually killing, but I think we're not going to be able to do that, and we're talking about culture. We demand that we do not tax educational services. Because taxation of educational services leaves our children with the possibility of getting a normal education. We demand a tax return for the Ukrainian book. Our committee voted yesterday on the wording of the Tax Code: "Providing services for preparation, literary, scientific and technical editing, editing of design and vertices, production of publishing products in the form of periodical publications of printed media, in addition to editions of erotic or advertising, books, student notebooks, textbooks, teaching manuals, dictionaries, provision of services for the provision of periodicals of printed media produced in customs territory of Ukraine, exempt from the value added tax." If we do not do so, neither the Ukrainian book nor the Ukrainian textbook nor the Ukrainian newspaper will be published in Ukraine. So we're also asking you to provide a tax on Ukrainian cinematographers whose funding is drastically reduced, which in fact can't exist if we stop the tax on Ukrainian cinematographers, in fact we can say that Putin, who created the huge Russian cultural fund yesterday by his decree, is going to win 50 percent of the war. But I'm sure we won't let that happen. The faction supports and asks for support on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u177	Thank you. I think this is all going to work out in preparation for the second reading. Please, Opposition Block, Wilkul Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u178	Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies! The bill, proposed by the Government, is intended solely for the absolute impoverishment of people, to destroy the last business, the latest production left in the country and the establishment of a police state. For example, it's suggested that a tax be imposed on absolutely all real estate, which is for every square meter of cartilage, every square meter of Sarai, the garage. We've done the calculation, we've done the calculation. A teacher living in the Borispol district, a house of 40 square meters, a smoker of 15 square meters and a residential area of very modest, 6 hundred, here it is under the new law, if, God forbid, he will be admitted, he will be forced to pay, at the salary of 24,000 bracelets per year, 7,000 bracelets per tax only. It's a real genocide, it can't be allowed in any way. Another innovation is the attempt to tax a pension of more than 3,000 600 bracelets with a tax of 15 per cent. Metallurgy, machine-builders, miners, miners, chemists — those who have spent their entire lives humping careers, mines, machines in the marten furnaces and earning pensions, graves their health, will now have to pay once again from a pension that exceeds 3,000 600 - 15 per cent of the tax. The package of legislation proposed by the Government was in no way acceptable. In terms of business, 24 bracelets of every square metre of real estate that is on the territory of our State are offered. It will still be translated into the cost of food and travels bread, milk, grains, travels all. We already have more than 30 per cent of the deposit flow this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u179	Anton Yatzenko, please, Economic Development. Please, Vitaly Hometic. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u180	The opposition bloc would certainly not vote in favour of the bill. We insist on our amendments, and the attention of all entrepreneurs, which has been welcomed since the bad ones of the 1990s.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u181	Thank you. Vitaly Hometic. I've seen this bill, and I've never seen any of these numbers within a meter of square, none.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u182	Dear Sir, your head! Dear colleagues! Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u183	Just a minute. One minute, it says "up to two percent" is the first. Second position. By nature, it is a property tax that belongs to the territorial communities and no one will decide to tax the poor, the needy. What don't you understand? Everyone understands that. But. Please, Homutinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u184	Thank you. If this is about real estate tax right now, I'm talking about it. I want to remind everyone that there is housing and housing benefits today. 120 meters for flats that are not taxed up to 120 meters, and 250 meters for houses. This bill cancels this benefit, and starting with a 1 meter tax, all the housing is taxed. At the same time, yes, indeed, the benefits are passed on to local councils, the local council can determine, within their incomes, only the income they receive, what kind of benefits they will set. To our conviction, everything about the benefits, the size of these benefits, and who should receive them, must be set at the legislative level, so when we work on this bill block, we will insist that the benefits be clear in the law. And the fact that this is supposed to be a local tax, in this, I hope, there's no doubt about it and there won't be. Also, the real estate tax applies to taxes, in fact, to all the houses in the village. So farms -- built-in, non-upgraded, Sarai, garages, whatever -- will be taxed at 2 percent. Today it's about 25 bucks. And imagine that some farm, there's 10 or 20 thousand square meters, has to be taxed at such rates. At the same time, some business center or trading center will also be taxed at the same rate. So in this direction, we're also going to have to work together. Excluding. Of course, for a little while, I can't tell you all the questions I have. We have work to do, please, 20 more seconds to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u185	Add 20 seconds, because I took it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u186	I'm literally fast. The question of inheritance. You can't have an inheritance in differentiation from the size of an inheritance. The first relationship has to be. No taxes. It's always been that way, it's that way around the world. This is where the concept changes. If the inheritance is more than a million, it's taxed, less taxed. We are also not ready to introduce ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u187	Thank you, Vitaly Yuriovich. Next, please, from the factions that didn't participate in the discussion, please Self-Help, Oleg Barrezuk, then the Radical Party, Lyashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u188	Please hand over Giurgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u189	Then it was sold. Andrew George, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u190	Colleagues, we propose to support this bill as a basis. Excluding from its text the positions outlined in the decision of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u191	Thank you. So I did. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, and the committee has been introduced to accept. Proposal: To be accepted on the basis of the Committee's proposals. Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today there were deputies from the rostrum who were really talking about the editorial proposed by the Ministry of Finance and Government. But the committee has made a decision that now proposes to be approved with exclusion, excluding the innovations proposed by the Ministry of Finance regarding the difference between expenditure and income tax. We suggest that we rule out the introduction to the village, what was said by the real estate tax. We're proposing that the committee remove the restrictions on grain exports. The committee decided to exclude VAT from the Tax Code. All the standards against which society and taxpayers have spoken, the committee proposes to exclude them. At the same time, we propose to leave and work on the second reading all the other standards proposed by the Ministry of Finance, such as those that give the income part of the budget. So I ask once again all MPs to support this bill in the first reading by deleting it from its text.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u193	Thank you. Please. It's so clear that it's in the text. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u194	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable colleagues, this bill can be supported solely in the light of the very substantial work done in that, first of all, there is only a mechanical tax union. Tax pressure is not going down, it's going up. It increases to small entrepreneurs, the ban on taxing what's paid to entrepreneurs, it kills several industries. This is an attempt to reintroduce the electronic administration of VAT, which is actually going to result in the laundering of the company's circulation costs. This is a real estate tax, which is absolutely unacceptable to enter as it is now introduced: 1 meter for all types of real estate. This strikes at small and medium -sized enterprises, by industry, in every citizen of Ukraine. Military congregation. We've expanded the billing base, but we haven't lowered the bet. The Radical Party insisted that by increasing taxation on passive income, the income of rich people should be reduced by the military assembly for ordinary citizens. Low levels of things that are unacceptable: increasing the authority of organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u195	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u196	Who create corrupt schemes that turn to theft, theft of business. Additional taxes should therefore be introduced: a tax on luxury rather than on ordinary people; and for small, medium -sized entrepreneurs and industry, real tax incentives should be created. Because if we don't expand our tax base, and we're just going to raise taxes, it's going to be 100 percent of the taxes from the bubble, from zero. So we want to support it in the first reading, but it's important to rewrite it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u197	Thank you. Please log in from non-factioners, one. Wait a minute. Please, National Deputy Bublik Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u198	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to Deputy Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u199	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 County. In fact, you know, what we saw today in the first reading of the amendments to the Budget Code, and what is now being proposed in the Tax Code, we see total propaganda and absolute ossification. Where decentralization is talked about, centralization is really a denial of funding for local authorities. And here, where we're talking about taxing oligarchs, we're actually seeing middle-class taxation and the least-protected types of the population. Here we don't see a real progressive scale of taxation, so that the rich pay as much as they have to pay, not as they pay now, that is nothing. Here we don't see real taxation of the oligarchy business. Instead, we see the pressures on small and medium-sized enterprises. We see the pressure on the more socially vulnerable levels of the population. Once again, it's a proponent. We have this new professional government. A professional government that simply introduces the American doctrine of liberal economy. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u200	Please, Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko has asked for the floor. I'm inviting you. Attention, colleagues, attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u201	Honorable deputies. I'd just like to ask you to accept the Ministry's proposed editorial in the first reading. We can continue to discuss on the committee all the changes that have been discussed and the proposals of the committee and others. But I ask you to accept for the first reading in the form in which it is written. And we'll discuss all the other questions on the committee for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u202	Thank you. "The will of the people," a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u203	No deletions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u204	Wait a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u205	Respected colleagues, this law is as discriminatory as Act 1577. Only the rules of this law are now directed at small and medium-sized businesses, industry. It is equally discriminatory. Tell me, after we have taken the funds from the local authorities and given them the opportunity to tax up to 2 per cent of the property of the community. Of course, they will do so, and this will concern industry, small and medium-sized businesses. Electronic accounts are an absolutely unacceptable norm, just like taxing, reducing teachers'salaries and withdrawing money from children's meals. I therefore believe that this law should be sent back to work. It cannot be taken as a foundation in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u206	Thank you, Your Honor. Look at the story. There is a bill that is prepared for first reading by the government. But we agreed with you about what we accept in the first reading. Next, if there are any committee proposals, factions. Please listen carefully. And then you're working, and the whole room on second reading is defined by the standards that need to be taken into account. Listen to me again. We'll vote for the basis. Then you work on the committees. I'll give the commission now, taking into account the proposal that the committee has decided. Prepare for second reading. There'll be a table. And then we're going to say, "for," "against," and we're going to hold on to everything else. Please, Oleg Lazko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u207	Oleg Lazko. Dear Mr. Head! All fellow Members were given a draft decision that was taken by the Tax and Customs Committee. Yesterday we sat down, prepared a draft decision. Now he's on his way to the hall. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, you are obliged to put the first sentence to the vote, this is the committee’s decision to support the bill on the basis of the proposals made by the committee in the Hall. [[Applause]] If this proposal, if this proposal does not find support, then according to the regulations, either for processing or for re-reading the first reading. Now, just one suggestion is to support the bill on the basis of the tax committee's proposals. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u208	Thank you all, dear colleagues. In the coming order, I will definitely put the vote to the vote. Hall will determine how to make the right decision. Take your seats, please. We'll all vote now. The first suggestion that came out is to accept this bill, your honourable colleagues, take your seats. We're going to vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're on our way. Yuri Vitaliyovich, Andry Volodymyrovich, take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm going to put the bill number, registration number 1578, on the ground. Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't hesitate. So we're going to base it on a base right now. If he's not voted, I'm going to put the committee's proposals and put a dot. What are you talking about? Please give me the floor to vote. Based on the bill (registration number 1578). Based on the base. [[13:33:06]] For-86 Against the 118, held – 15, did not vote. And now I'm voting on the basis of the committee's proposals. So it's... it's... All right, colleagues. You calm down, 114 articles of the Rules, you read, it's all written. I would like to base it on the committee's proposals. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis of the committee's proposals, please vote. Based on the committee's proposal. [[13:33:58]] For 258. Next, dear colleagues. Well, 1578-1 is not going to vote. Show the factions, please. But listen carefully, right now we've voted against the committee's proposals. And then we're going to work on the committees and we're going to figure out, there's not even an object there for you to discuss right now. We're working on it, dear fellows. Bill No. 1264: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. Reporters: National Deputy of Ukraine Dudenkov Alexander Valerijovich, as well as Fedashkin Denis Aleksandrovich. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I have registered several legislative initiatives at the beginning of this call by the Supreme Council, which unfortunately I have not been able to implement in the Supreme Council and the previous call, and they relate to the mere improvement of the system of tax control over transfer pricing. It's very simple for my bill. It is designed to shorten the list of controlled operations, as required by the SSR's instructions on transfer pricing, install the base, cancel. State-defined official sources used for the defined price of controlled transactions. Unfortunately, the government that has registered an alternative bill is seeing improvements in transfer pricing. And unfortunately, this bill isn't about fighting big capital, it's about fighting medium and small business. They want to introduce several, many more reports after filing a tax report not once a year, as per the current legislation, but constantly when filing a tax declaration. They want to increase the fines. They want to increase the presumption of normal controlled operations. Now, not the controlling authority, but the taxpayer will prove that the price is market. They want to lower the threshold of controlled operations, thereby distributing tax control to single taxpayers. They want to run a wider list of controlled operations. It's actually not what was developed by Pricewaterhouse when the previous government did it. It's a very fiscal bill. I ask you to support 1264 and to reject the legislative initiative of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u210	Thank you. Please, Dennis Fudashkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing to amend the Tax Code regarding the issue of transfer pricing. I want to say that these proposals were prepared with many experts, including several technical missions of the International Monetary Fund, as well as technical missions of the World Bank. And this bill is made taking into account the opinions of experts from all the respected institutions. These are solved issues, including the control of transfer pricing not only by commodity flows, but also by transactions with assets such as securities and other financial transactions that do not exist in the previous bill. It is also envisaged that controlled transactions can be distributed and that there are several intermediate companies that are formally unrelated between the two connected persons, which make it impossible to determine the transfer pricing for today, taking into account these circumstances. It is also suggested that the possible time limit should be extended in accordance with the instructions of the CEB. Please support in the first reading the very government bill, which deals much more with the issue of transfer pricing, including, focus on financial transactions, securities, which are used in the same way to generate profits outside Ukraine by manipulating appropriate prices. And it's also offered for the goods that are being marketed, for the establishment of a comparable price on the basis of direct market catheters, not on the basis of other proposals proposed in the previous project. Please support in the first reading and hold an additional discussion on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u212	Thank you. Please, Roman Nasirov, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u213	Honourable Head, honourable National Deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 24 December, reviewed draft laws amending the Tax Code of Ukraine to improve tax control of transfer pricing, registration Nos. 1264, Deputy Dudenkova, and 1264-1, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Bill number 1264. The purpose of the bill is to unify provisions relating to tax control of transfer pricing. As far as Bill 1264-1 is concerned. The purpose of the bill is to improve the existing system of government regulation of transfer pricing, to eliminate contradictions and to convert rules that have a negative impact on the enforcement of tax policy. In support of the overall change in the concept of transfer pricing provided by Bill No. 1264-1, the Ukrainian National Deputies expressed a number of substantive remarks to the Committee. This applies in particular to transfer pricing rules to transactions between residents in the internal market of Ukraine. Nor is the idea of a temporary norm for specific industries supported. In view of the broader possibilities for proposed changes in transfer pricing procedures, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (Registration No. 1264-1) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) is considered more acceptable. In view of the above, the Committee decided: to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to improve tax control of transfer pricing) (No. 1264-1) (submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine) to accept such provisions as being excluded from its text. As regards the spread of transfer pricing to transactions in the internal market. This is the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u214	Let me finish. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u215	Paragraphs 39.2.1.1. and 39.2.1.3. With regard to the exclusion of the temporary rule on the characteristics of transfer pricing for enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u216	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u217	But about reporting on controlled transactions in 2014. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u218	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to step away from the ministers, please, they don't listen to the law. Mr. Fudashkin, Deputy Minister. I ask the deputies not to be distracted during consideration. We don't need a call. Is there a need for two "for", two "against"? Vote? Sign two for, two against, there's a Press Point, you can talk all the time. That's what I'm talking about. We have to finish. We have to work on the committees now. Please, Fatherland, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u219	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u220	Don't distract the ministers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u221	I have a request that there be such a rule that we have a job that the minister who listens to the report of the Chamber and discusses MPs is not able to hear our proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u222	All offer accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u223	First of all, we're accepting proposals today. Turn on the microphone. Thank you. . We accept the government's proposal to strengthen the law and enforce it in a more serious form in the law on transfer pricing. For our listeners who don't know what transfer pricing is. It's a serious fight against offshoring, it's when our rich people sell their products abroad at cost, and they leave all the added value there, and they leave with their profits. Regrettably, the introduction of a bill in the form that has been adopted and is currently in operation is not effective; it does not provide for serious punishment; it does not introduce serious work by the Ministry in order to remove such an phenomenon. And so by supporting the government's first-reading bill, we're paying attention to the ministry by asking them to step up their responsibility. We suggest to paragraph 120.3 in a paragraph where "100 Minimum Wages" should read: "5 per cent of the total amount of the controlled operation." We're proposing a serious formulation, what is a beneficiary? Because it is now being swollen and the controllers who are talking about it, there are many operations that are now exempt from taxation. We're against you wanting to delete the article in active version 39.2.1.7. Look, they're asking governments to take off today's 50 million dollar surplus and put 20 million dollars. We feel that there is a need for increased responsibility. And last of all, let's stress that the chemical and metallurgical industries should be on January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u224	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u225	to be parties and responsible under the Transfer Price Act. No exceptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u226	Please, "Radical Party", are you insisting on the performance? Please, Victor Halasyuk, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, the "Radical Party" has consistently insisted on this issue. We talked about this to the Prime Minister. That is why we support this bill in the first reading and insist. But I'd like to ask Mr. Fudashkin, who spoke, if you're predicting effective transfer mechanisms. protection against transfer pricing, then why do you at the same time place increased tax pressure on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and all the standards you set? Why is there no reduction in the radical only social contribution if taxation of raw oligarches is the most effective way to secure taxes on the budget rather than on the salaries of ordinary citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u228	Thank you, Mr. Victor. Prepare to respond before second reading. I'm asking you, Dobrenkov, the Opposition Block. Then Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Head! Once again, I would like to continue my speech in defense of the bill which. More specifically, not in defense, I understand that he will not be supported in the hall, but against the bill that the government is initiating. It's not a fight against oligarhat, I'm saying right now, because lowering the threshold of controlled operations is a fight against a middle class that will provide the same amount of information that big taxpayers are giving. If Mrs. Kugel doesn't know that the sole taxpayers are up to 20 million, they will also be subject to transfer pricing if Mrs. Kugel doesn't know that the transfer pricing is already in effect, I'm very sorry that she's making such a professional comment. Because transfer pricing has been effective since January 1. September 1 through December 31st. This is the first period during which tax payers reported controlled transactions. I want to report that as a result of the said tax, the taxpayers themselves do not know what to do with it. Increasing the relevant documentation and fines will not result in the efficiency of transfer pricing, which will make administration more difficult and already complex in our country's tax system. And what I'm trying to say is that increasing the effectiveness of the fight because of the cancellation of the presumption of marketability of controlled transaction prices, according to which the taxpayer is already going to prove that this is a market operation, this is not the way to improve. We all know the OECD's instructions and therefore we don't need to speculate, it's not the OECD's unification, it's the result of the fiscalization of this transfer pricing. No audit companies were involved in the drafting of the bill, as was the first time. It's a much worse option than what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u230	Thank you. Anna Hopko, Self-Help. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u231	Good afternoon, dear fellows! What I'm saying is that the Self-Help faction generally supports the government's transfer pricing bill, taking into account these exceptions. We fully support the decision of the Tax, Customs Policy Committee that transfer pricing should not be distributed to the internal operations of residents of Ukraine, which is contrary to OECD practices and principles. Secondly, what kind of surprise did Minfin put us there? In paragraph two of the transitional provisions it is noted that the transfer pricing report is up to 1st. By May 15, 2015, the law should be applied. What does that mean? This is actually the extension of this law to operations that were carried out by our businesses in 2014. At a time when they didn't even know they were going to have to report in 2015. And first of all, this surprise is about small businesses, this surprise is about medium-sized business, because they're very much reducing the criteria for controlling operations, up to 1 million dollars and 20 million dollars in total turnover. That's why we insist on the exclusion of paragraph 2, "Transitional positions." Dear colleagues, we need to save the middle business with you. In addition, I would like to point out that the government's bill again has benefits for the taxation of the oligarchi business: metallurgy, hymprom, etc. We insist, and we unanimously voted on the committee that this paragraph should be excluded. They should report controlled operations on an equal footing. And when we're told that they're going to report at market prices, I want to say that we're being manipulated, because it goes on to say that the list of commodity exchanges is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And you realize that this is actually going to mean that the oligarchs are going to renegotiate for themselves. So our proposal -- please support it -- is except for the provisions that are set out in the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u232	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here's the next offer. And I think it's the right thing to do, and I think it's the right thing to do. Accept it in the first reading and as a basis, and when preparing for the second reading, consider the proposals made by the deputies. Yeah? One minute, Economic Development, please. It doesn't, does it? None. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall, please. From the non-fractional one, write it down. Osuhovsky, National Deputy Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u233	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u234	Yuri Lewchenko, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u235	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, again, for the third time in this room today, we see, both with the Budget Code and with the Tax Code, now with transfer pricing, ossification and absolute propaganda. Where we're talking about a real fight against transfer pricing, we're actually seeing benefits for the oligarchs by the 17th, it was until the 18th, now we're done by the 17th. Oh, God, it's less than 1 year, right? But people are already being asked to cut their expenses all the way back to next year. We see this moment. And then you have the notion of an outstretched hand. In this law of transfer pricing. In fact, in Ukrainian realities, the concept of "arms out" will not fight transfer pricing in any way. So that makes it possible for the oligarchs to avoid paying the right tax that they have to pay. And the last moment, in fact, as has already been said, is the possibility for the oligarchs to fully invent the price on the basis. A deal with the Cabinet of Ministers. So let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u236	Please, Your Honor, I ask you to take your seats. Honorable National MPs. We have 1264 -- based on it. I'll take that as a base. There are suggestions from the National Deputies that we will consider in preparing for the second reading. That's why I'm voting. Based on 1264 with the preparation. On the basis of both the first reading and the second reading, consider the proposals made by the national deputies. What's wrong? [[Noise in the hall]] This will be the first vote. If it doesn't, I'll put it this way. It's in order, colleagues. Don't confuse, please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's begin the vote now. 1264 drafts based on the first reading of the second reading, taking into account the suggestions. There's the position of Minister of Finance. Ah, 1264-1, dear friends. 1264-1. The government agrees. 1264-1. Did I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u237	Government Bill 1264-1
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u238	Government Bill 1264-1 is based on the first reading. Please vote. On the basis of the first reading. Compilation of MPs’ Proposals [[13:54:33]] For-149 Not accepted. And then we put 1264 in order of arrival, 1264-1 taking into account the committee's conclusions. Right? Please. Please, in the first reading, based on 1264-1, first reading as a basis. Taking into account the committee. Given the committee's position, the committee's position, the committee's conclusions, what do you want me to call it? The committee's decision. [[13:55:06]] For 275 Decision taken. "Agains" is five, thank you. Well, the alternative doesn't make sense to vote. Dear colleagues! Ah, 1355. There's a very nice offer, very well, you'll agree with it. Continue the morning session until daytime. Cool? No breaks. Please put to the vote, we vote. Work. To work without interruptions, the morning session is to wear out the order of the day. [[13:55:43]] For 288 Decision taken. We're working on it. Thank you, Your Honor. Registration Project No. 1562 – Ukraine's Act on Measures to Stabilize Ukraine's Balance of Payments in accordance with Article XI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994. Deputy Minister Fudashkin, please. There is a need to report, and I see that there is no discussion here on the committee proposal. Is that right? Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u239	Dear National Deputies! The government is proposing to regulate the balance of payments, in accordance with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, to adopt as a temporary measure an additional 10 per cent import assembly for 1-24 per cent, for all other goods, excluding critical imports, to set the rate of 5 per cent. The government is proposing to refer energy products to critical imports. This is gas, electricity, coal, petroleum products, TV, which is related to the energy sector. This will reduce the negative external trade balance, reduce the burden on the National Bank’s reserves, and add additional income to the government’s budget and finance the social commitments that the state has. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u240	Thank you. Please, Roman Nasirov, head of the profile committee. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u241	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy and its meeting on December 24th reviewed the draft Law on Measures to Stabilise Ukraine’s Balance of Payments in accordance with article XI of the General Agreement. The draft law introduces an additional import measure in connection with the deterioration of Ukraine’s balance of payments, a significant reduction in the country’s gold reserves. While sharing the concerns of the drafters about the need for an operational response to Ukraine's current negative balance of payments, the reduction of the national bank's gold reserves, the need to increase Ukraine's state budget, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee, noted the following. With regard to the list of goods assigned to the group of essential goods; with regard to the consultation between the Government of Ukraine and the Committee on the Limitations on the Balance of Payments of the WTO on the establishment of appropriate import restrictions; with regard to the practical application of the bill, it will lead to an increase in the smuggling of goods, an increase in shadow schemes for the supply of goods to Ukraine and will contribute to the reduction of revenues to the budget; and with regard to the enforcement of an additional import assembly of goods moving under free trade agreements; and with regard to financial and economic accounting, the Explanatory Note is not available; and with regard to social risks. Following consideration of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian bill on measures to stabilise Ukraine’s balance of payments (No. 1562). I ask you, Your Honor, to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u242	Thank you, Your Honor. Two in, two in. Please. People's MP Lensky, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u243	Please pass the word Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u244	Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u245	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, we believe that this bill is well supported because we have a colossal import, a colossal import addiction, but with one very important adjustment, with the adjustment that additional import duties cannot be distributed to raw materials and kits that are used by Ukrainian national manufacturers to produce finished products, because this way, on the one hand, we will get additional revenues to the state budget and we will balance the trade balance, and on the other hand, we will not make it worse for the Ukrainian industry, which is difficult to do so now, it needs to create additional incentives, not additional pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u246	Thank you. National Deputy Abdullin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u247	Please, Alona Shkrum, pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u248	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u249	Thank you. Alona Shkrum, "The Fatherland" faction. The honourable colleagues we're proposing for this bill. Under this bill, we are invited to establish additional import congregations in accordance with the GATT article for a period of 12 months. What is it? So it's going to increase prices for all the imports that these congregations are going to be set up at the same time. And that's something that Ukrainian citizens need to be honest about. The minimum per year will be higher prices for imported products, which we have very much. In addition, I would like to remind you that we have signed an Association Agreement, for which we have fought so hard, between Ukraine and the EU. This is in direct contravention of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, for there we have undertaken not to introduce any new import duties and congregations. This is a new import tax and a new congregation. That's why we usually welcome the government's efforts to reduce our balance of payments deficit and fill the budget, but this can't happen because of the violation of the Association Agreement that we fought for and for which we stood, sorry, in Maidan. So it's just a non-professional offer from the government on my own. And unfortunately, we didn't even see it in the explanatory note or in the bill, we didn't see the calculations, we didn't see the justification, which also required both the budget code and the WTO rules, and the rules of the World Trade Organization. And we can also see with you the appeal of the WTO member states to the SOTA dispute settlement body and we will have appeals against Ukraine. So the "Fatherland" faction clearly supports the conclusion of the bill and proposes to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u250	Oleg Berezuk, please, Self-Help. Then Victor Pinzenik, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, this law raises the price of washing powder and soap and does not raise the price of oil and gas. We've only seen a few pages of this budget that we've been given, and we've found forty billion dollars that are rolling in our economy. And we're going to take money from people for soap and powder. This is not the right position for Parliament. We will vote against this law. We're going for work, it can't be done. In addition, as we pick up the ticket, we will simply increase the contrabas to the point of abnormality, and the musical instruments will be in the country at every turn. That's why we're a self-help party against import duties in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u252	Thank you. Please, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u253	Dear national deputies, understanding all the difficulties facing the budget, I announced them. And I think they still need to be solved. I would be extremely careful about such an initiative. Why? When reference is made to the corresponding article of the Treaty on Tariffs and Trade, I would like to point out that, indeed, article 12 allows the introduction of a restriction. But what are they? Limit the quantity or cost of the goods. So we can limit, for example, the supply of metal to a million tons, or the value of metal to 100 million tonnes. But it doesn't talk about import duties. The other one. This article, let me quote you what it predicts. "Any party to a trade agreement that suffers from such restrictions may be exempt from those obligations under this agreement with respect to the party that has applied such restrictions." So the reaction to our making a similar decision, and it applies to all 97 positions, except for individual positions, can be the other side of such agreements. Besides.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u254	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u255	The article, when we entered into the Association Agreement with the European Union, provides for the inadmissibility of introducing new duties and additional congregations for customs. And we may run into extremely unpleasant things. Why do I want to stress that? The Ukrainian economy: the only sector growing is exports to the countries of the European Union. The statistics I own. In the third quarter of this year, export.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u256	Let me finish, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u257	In the European Union, there was a 25 per cent increase. If we get a feedback from the introduction of extra duties and congregations, we can have very unpleasant things for the Ukrainian economy. Therefore, I would feel that for the time being, we must refrain from adopting this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u258	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put you to a vote. Please allow me to vote on the bill (registration number 1562), please identify yourself. Based on the base. So let's define, based on 1562. [[14:06:35]] For 101 The decision is not taken. The factions. What do you say, Minister? Please give the floor to the Minister. Please, please. I just can't hear you yelling. Please, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u259	I wanted to ask you a word and say it. First of all, I know you've already voted, but I'll talk anyway. This article is temporary, it's both in the WTO and in our relations with the EU, it's temporary because we have this problem with the balance of payments. This temporary norm, which gives us 17.6 billion in the budget this year, has also been asked by our partners in the IMF. So there are no problems on all international sides. That's the first one. Second, it really raises the price of imported goods. That's why it's done to make less imports -- it's absolutely right. So that's why it's helping the balance of payments. [[Applause]] If it didn't raise the price, there wouldn't be any movement on the balance of payments -- that's the second. Third, it's really temporary because we have a very difficult situation. How many times do you have to say the same thing? If you don't want to pass this law, you have the right. But then please tell me exactly where we're going to get 17.6 billion in the income part of the budget. [[Applause]] You suggest, and then you reject it, and before you do not have another 17.6 billion, please base this project. Let's talk about your questions that you have, I don't know the answer to these questions that you asked about raw materials. But please take it as a basis. Because there's another option. We can just go home after that today. Because the budget is not going to be 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u260	Dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u261	Everybody go on vacation and it'll be over.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u262	Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] Look, I'd like to thank you, dear colleagues, first of all, for this responsible position of minister. And I think if we're going to take it as a base right now, there's nothing going on in our country. But we're going to create a normal course to discuss all these issues and support them. Moreover, dear friends, I would like to point out that when it comes to the development of the internal market and domestic production, this could be very important for the Ukrainian economy in preparing for the second reading. So I'd like to ask you, dear friends, if you'd all please come into the hall. People's deputies now. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I'd like you to invite the deputies into the hall. The adoption of the law as a basis does not mean its adoption as a whole, and this only means that we will accept it as a basis and work together. If we don't find a solution together, we don't find a solution, but the 17 billion figures, my friends, are serious figures that have to balance the budget, because, on the one hand, we say that we have to pay people a pension, we have to fund needs and benefits, and on the other hand, we don't want to talk about the fact that imported goods, not our own production, not our own Ukrainian producer, but imported goods, not. To raise the price for him. So it's about finding understanding. So I'd like to ask with great respect to the minister, now I'm going to put this bill, 1562, on the ground. I ask the National Deputies to support him and vote and continue to work on the Committees for the second reading. I ask, Your Honor, to put a motion for a vote on the basis of Bill 1562. Please. Please. Please. I'm asking you to back it up. Based on that, that doesn't mean 226. Do you understand? Here's the base, 226. Vote, vote. To return to the vote. Return to the vote. [[14:11:04]] For 214 Well, I'm going to take the blame because not everyone voted. I just figured it out. Once again, a return to this bill. Please come back. Please vote. You'll see, now it's going to be 226. To return. To return. [[14:11:28]] For 234 Guys, we're back. I want to emphasize once again, we're talking about this bill as the basis. Let's see, we'll understand – we'll vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Let's see, we don't announce a five-minute break right now, but if you need to consult, please have 3 minutes. Please consult for three minutes, but not all of them, not all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I think there's an understanding. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. I think we're clear, we're going to take it as a basis, we're going to work on the committees, and we're going to make a final decision. Please, colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I can see the factions. Please take up your jobs. Colleagues, please, just a minute away from the factions, and we'll put a dot. Please, Fatherland, one minute. Wait a minute! Factions per minute. Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u263	Dear colleagues and distinguished Minister of Finance! Madam Minister of Finance! Madam Minister of Finance! Madam Minister of Finance and Honorary Colleagues! I would like to provide clear information as to whether it violates or violates this project of our commitment under the Association and Free Trade Agreement. As a minimum of 5 articles in this agreement: Article 30, Article 35, Article 42, Article 77, and Article 78a, a direct violation. Before the introduction of something like this within the Association Committee, article 77, consultations were to be held. They were not carried out. Therefore, it does not really fit the information that the provisions of this bill are in agreement with the European side. If this is accepted, we can actually kill ourselves for what we fought for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u264	Thank you. Please, Self-Help. Oleg Beresuk. From faction to minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u265	Minister, please listen, just be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u266	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u267	Ladies and gentlemen. The Self-Help faction has respect for members of the government, especially the Minister of Finance. Her voice is heard. But we also ask for our voice. We are ready for the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u268	Madam Ministers. Please do not distract the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u269	The Self-Help faction has deep respect for members of the government, particularly the Minister of Finance. And we hear your voice, but we ask you to hear us. You take personal responsibility for the relationship with the WTO and our European colleagues if the standards are broken, and our goods will be taxed there. This is your personal responsibility. The second question. We will support this today in our first reading and will work on it. But we're asking you to get the drugs out of the list, which are expensive anyway, and we don't get the equivalent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u270	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u271	And the goods required for the army are military or dual use. Please support the hall, because it really is necessary for the government to balance the balance today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u272	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko. Then Nichiporenko, a minute, Economic Development. Then the People's Front, BPP, Peter Dusty Block, and then we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u273	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Yesterday, at a meeting of the Tax and Customs Committee, I voted in favour of this bill, and now in the Hall, the faction "Radical Party" voted unanimously in favour of this bill. Dear colleagues! We have a collapse in the country and an economic disaster! We have a complete destabilization of the balance of payments. And the task of the government that elected this coalition and this Supreme Council is to find a balance, to find revenue for the budget. And I think that we can add import goods to the second reading to remove from there, for example, the list of products and raw materials that are needed for our manufacturers, in order not to increase the cost of our manufacturers. But by raising the tariffs, setting the new tariffs. We will be able to support our national producer, who suffers from a fall in the course of the bracelet. And as a result, create additional jobs and new incomes to the budget. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u274	Thank you. The offer is to support. Please, Economic Development, Nichiporenko. Then the Opposition Block, the People's Front, and the BP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u275	Dear Madam Minister! Dear Madam Minister! I'd like to come to you and listen to the honourable MPs, please! I understand this subject, believe me. There's no big problem raising 10 percent for an importer. No problem. The problem is different. That this is a tribute on the shoulders of those who pay taxes. If you think you're going to raise 17 billion, believe me, no. You'll be applauded by smugglers. Here, in this room, is Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. She started the Contrabanda Stop program once. She knows what it is. Until you do, smuggling, there's no point in raising any moment. Believe me, it's my fault. But believe me, you'll be applauded by smugglers. Importers won't understand what they're doing. So first, or together, or first, we have to fight smuggling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u276	People's deputies, we should, you know what? We need to consider one position that we speak on the basis of respectable friends. Based on the base. This means that during the review of the Opposition Block, then Illenko, then the People's Front and all. You're done. Please, the Opposition Block. Listen, MP, please take your seats. "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u277	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. The Opposition Block faction will not support this bill for a number of reasons. Reason number one. First, in accordance with Article XI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, non-tariff regulation measures are envisaged. I mean, the state can set out, quote, "It can limit the quantity or cost of the goods that are allowed to be imported when the following items are implemented in this article." What does the government offer? The government proposes to introduce tariff regulation measures, i.e. to establish an additional import duty, the first. Secondly, with regard to an additional budget of 17 billion, I would like to point out that there is an attachment to the euro in the One Customs Tariff. We had a 100 percent currency devaluation. So next year, there's going to be an increase of at least 100 percent from import duties when the corresponding import volume is saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u278	Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u279	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I believe this bill is absolutely correct and must be supported. Because if we're talking about the well-being of our people, it's going to contribute to both increasing production in Ukraine and increasing jobs. Because we need to think not only about imported goods, we need to think about how we can develop our economy and our production. And if we didn't support the government's position under other bills, then we think we should support it. Because it's not just the common people, it's not just another tax hike for small businesses that has to solve this issue, but it's in this regard that the budget needs to be filled, including by increasing import duties. We have a country that doesn't produce much anymore but lives on import. We need to change that. And we need to fill the budget. That's why we're "for" and we're calling for everyone to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u280	Are you insisting on the People's Front and the Peter Dusty Block or are we voting? Vote. Colleagues, I asked. No, it's not. Give me the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction is asking you to consider the responsibility that stands before us by voting for this bill. Yes, he raises payments for imported goods. But let's understand the situation we're in. Let us understand that the government that introduced this project understands the state of negotiations with the European Union and within the WTO. I would like to remind my coalition colleagues who are represented in the government that this bill provides for a 12-month regime, the Association Agreement allows for certain decisions to be made in our legislation, which has a fixed term of action. There's a 12-month deadline right here. Hence, there are no contradictions. I'm asking you not to manipulate these things. And let's learn to talk about the bills, understanding what's written and conscious. Dear colleagues, the "national front" calls on all members of the coalition and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u282	With all due respect, Julia Volodymyr, please. Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko’s replica Then Yuri Lucenko and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u283	I want, I just want us to make informed political decisions. It's really a political decision. We're violating at least 5 articles of the Association Agreement. As far as we have heard from the Ministry of Finance, the written consent of the European Union, there is no such derogation from the agreement. This has a huge threat, a risk of ending the free trade regime that has been granted to Ukraine by the European Union, unilateral preferences that the European Union may put at risk. That's what Victor Pinzenik was talking about. We replaced the Russian market and went to the European market, increased our exports by 25 percent. Don't do it on the roots. It's different. This will increase smuggling over and over again. And third. This will, unfortunately, increase the prices of the people to the entire import product. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u284	Yuri Lucenko, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask a little quieter, if possible, in the hall. Please take your seats. We still have work to do. Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u285	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this is certainly not a simple decision, but the situation in the country is far from stable. I would like to support in this situation the protests of those who believe that this decision will bring a number of negatives to the economy. But it is impossible to increase the budget without the 15 billion proposed in this law. And you have to choose a country in which there is no budget in the state of war and which is in the state of unstarted reforms, or you have to start balancing the budget by introducing this proposal temporarily. We insist that this law has not affected the drugs and the goods of life’s first need. But someone who buys imported goods has to put pressure on them in times of crisis. I think it makes sense. And so our first-reading faction proposes to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u286	Dear friends, I would like to emphasize once again. Take your seats, please. And there's one more thing I'm saying. Don't be dramatic, because our vote says only that Parliament has adopted this bill to be considered on committees as a basis. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u287	I just want to emphasize. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't say we had a written agreement with anyone. I said that we discussed this with the IMF, and we're ready to discuss it with other partners under all the procedures and rules. We will never throw the country aside or go against our association with the EU. But we understand today that such a temporary contribution is possible and is normally foreseen under an existing agreement. We'll take it today, we'll go according to all the rules of the game, according to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u288	Moreover, this position adds optimism. So I put to the vote on the basis, and the proposals, the returns have already been, and the proposals that were the deputies, I ask you to consider in preparing for the second reading. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. Vote please, colleagues. On the basis of that, please vote. [[14:29:24]] For 221 Dear friends. What do you mean? There's a return offer, a bet vote. On your way back, please. To return to the vote. That's just the basis, well, what's this all about? Come on, let's vote. On your return, please vote and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u289	Za, on your way back. [[The voice from the hall. For! For!]] [[14:29:56]] For 243 I'll base Bill 1562, please vote. On the basis of that, dear friends. On the ground, we vote. For. Based on the base. [[14:30:17]] For 237 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Colleagues, there is no dramaticity, we consider between the first and the second readings. If there are voices in the room and we take this responsibility together with the Ministry of Finance, we vote. Period. Come on, please. Next bill, 1563, reports Fudashkin Denis Alexandrovich. Madam Minister, I would like to ask you more carefully, because your arguments, they are very correct. Please, Mr. Fudashkin. 1563.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u290	Honourable National Deputies, this bill is related to the previous bill, and the introduction of this temporary measure will require appropriate introduction to the Customs Code in order to administer this temporary congregation. In addition, the bill stipulates that this congregation is not being distributed, once again specified, for humanitarian aid, international technical assistance, goods imported by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, Malaria in Ukraine. Please support this bill on the basis of a direct link to the previous draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u291	Thank you. What suggestions, colleagues, 1563? Vote? Vote. I'm putting the bill on the ground, number 1563 of the draft law amending the Customs Code. Please vote on the basis. Dear colleagues, on the basis of an offer. Please. 1563, Your Honor, we vote on the basis. [[14:32:09]] For 222 The decision is not taken as a basis. Repeat, return, vote for return. Please, Your Honor, for your return to 1563, be more careful with your colleagues. I'd like you to invite the people's deputies and the faction leaders into the hall. Invite the national deputies to the hall for the return of 1,563 registrations. Please return to 1563 for return to 1563. [[14:32:51]] For 240 Copy that. We're back. I can base it on the vote. On the basis of that, please put it to the vote. Please vote on the basis of registration number 1563. Based on the base. Please be supportive. Please support me as a base. [[14:33:17]] For 236 The decision is based on committee work. Next, colleagues, 1574, Deputy Finance Minister Matthewsuk. Please make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u292	Dear National Deputies! We have introduced three bills related to the reform of the mandatory state social insurance. Bill 1574, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u293	You want 1573.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u294	1573, so Bill 1573.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u295	There's an offer to consider 1573, then 1574, then 1575. Is there no objection? 1573, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 1573 foresees: first, a reduction in the size of a single social contribution in this order: more than two minimum wages are paid as wages. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u297	1573, please. I'll give the floor to the Minister of Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u298	The bill provides for such three directions. First of all, it's a reduction in the only social contribution from wages, from an amount that exceeds two minimum wages in 2015 to 25 percent from an average of 41 percent today. In 2016 it is projected to decrease to 20 percent and in 2017 to 15 percent. It's the other way. The second direction is pooling funds. We have a fund today from industrial accidents and temporary incapacity. These two funds are proposed for unification. They are practically united in their activities. This will allow the administrative costs to be reduced for the maintenance of these funds, which will reduce the only social contribution. And the third, honourable national MPs, the third direction of this bill is to take additional steps to legalize wages. It's estimated that we have a different estimate of how much of the wage fund is in shadow and paid in envelopes. It's estimated that it's at least 140 billion dollars. If we take measures and legalize them, we'll get extra revenue. In addition, people who receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u299	Let me finish. Dear people's deputies, please be more careful. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u300	People get social protection. I ask you, honourable national MPs, to support your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u301	Thank you. Please, Natala Royal. The co-conspirator is then Minister of Social Policy Rosenko, then. Please, Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u302	Honourable National Deputies, December 24, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement Services reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Reforming the National Compulsory Social Insurance and Legalization of the Labour Pay Fund. But instead of the promised reform of social insurance, we have unfortunately received a document that the authorities are offering to eliminate the social protection system. The bill provides for the creation of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund as of 1 January 2015, and the bill disagrees with the parties to the social dialogue, trade unions, employers, and the public has not asked whether they need such a reform, which violates the Constitution, to deprive people of their rights to support the State. For example, the bill repeals the rule on child health, free access to children's youth schools, and completely ceases to finance all prevention, sanitation and child health facilities. It is also proposed that the bill reduce the amount of temporary disability assistance. I mean, according to hospital bills, people are now going to get 50 percent. If a person has worked for up to 3 years and 80 per cent if a person has worked for more than 8 years. That is to say, for our people's health today, the social insurance budget will be raised. This project destroys a system that has existed for many years. And I'm sure everyone in this room agrees that the social insurance system needs to be reformed, but not in this way. The Committee on Social Policy therefore decided to reject the draft law of Ukraine and to invite the Government to submit a separate one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u303	Thank you. Let me finish the proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u304	and invite the Government to submit a separate bill on the size and manner of the single contribution, which would reduce the burden on the payroll fund. Please support the decision of the relevant committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u305	Thank you. Please, colleagues, two to go, two to go. Two for, two against. Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u306	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue of reducing the burden on the pay fund, and especially the reduction of the only social contribution, is not just one of the most important tasks today, it's a real mechanism for filling the state budget. Because if we do with you what we wrote in the Coalition Agreement, namely: we reduce the only social contribution from 41 percent -- where it is now, to 18, that gives us a real chance of detining the wage. At the same time, in order to ensure that the fund is not reduced, it is necessary to set up a safety net with which the total amount of income should be no less than the previous year. Thus, employers who pay wages in envelopes today will benefit from raising them twice as much as they will because they will not pay twice as much into the EU’s fund. And this is a real decision to detoxify wages and extra revenue into the budget. Instead of raising taxes, it is necessary to reduce the burden on the pay - for - work fund and to increase the stress on the core and on things where people do not work, but where cars work. When people have a normal salary, it's a purchasing ability, it's a development of national production, it's not going to have to pay people back and subsidies, it's that people can sustain themselves normally, not like slaves, it's going to be 1,000 dollars. You understand if we don't raise the minimum wage, as the Radical Party suggested. Therefore, we propose to support this bill in the first reading, but it is essential that it be finalized in order to bring it into line with the Coalition Agreement in order to reduce the only social contribution to 18 percent with the establishment of the appropriate safety net. This will lead to a real detinction of wages, not if they want to do it -- just mimic this reform. We will not allow this reform to be simulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u307	Thank you. Please, Captain. Hurry up, please, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u308	I'd like to pass on the word to Andrey Giurgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u309	Comrades, good afternoon. When we talk about reducing the only social contribution and reducing the burden on the wage fund, we need to be clear that we can't talk about the EU or the VAT. We're going to have to look with you at what total pressure on the payroll fund is going to be from the taxes we're putting in. And it's only in the complex to look at that question. If we want real downsizing and legalizing the income of the population, and getting these funds out of the shadows that are not taxed today, and the pension fund is losing these funds, we have to dramatically reduce the burden on the payroll fund. Just like the Georgians did by entering the only bet 26,6, then 25 and 20. A year later, they collected three times more taxes on the budget than they had collected before. Three times. So either let's not do it in half, because aside from losing the budget, it doesn't lead to anything. Or we're saying that we're going to reduce the workload on the payroll fund, so that the total count is not more than 30 percent. This is your PDF, there is. An employee, a military assembly. But we're setting up a failsafe so that the payments can't be smaller than the average of one person in the 14th year. So the budget doesn't lose money, it's going to be the same, and business can be legalized in the 15th year. And in solving the 16th year question with you, we'll understand clearly, and what is the base. I mean, to go down, I'd like there to be support for both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Policy for what they're working with us on this bill. And as an MP, we will make written proposals and make a coalition agreement on that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u310	Thank you. I think this idea can be very, very right and supported by ministries. Please, National Deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u311	I'm asking you to put on the screen the flash drive that I left with information for MPs and ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u312	The flash drive is on the screen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u313	Look, please, Minister. This is a real strain on one employer today. Do you see the percentage below? 90, my family, 90! For a thousand dollars, I have to pay 900 dollars as a employer today! For 10 days, we, Self-Help, all the members of the coalition told you in the Ministry, listen to what's written in the coalition agreement. Substantial decreases in wages to get out of the shadows. What are you doing in the bill?Oh, my God! You proposed, and you even said unfairly the other day when you presented this, you said you were reducing 25. Ladies and gentlemen, open the bill. In the Transitions, the single contribution rate in 2015 is 26.7; in 2016 it is 21.3. And only then will the downfall be predicted! You and I have voted on a progressive scale in the Tax Code. You're putting pressure on citizens' incomes today, and you're leaving a decline in just two percent of entrepreneurs, these are the richest people we're going to reduce today, the workload on wages. And that's why we're not going to support this bill in any way. For 10 days we offered to give you our editor. But you completely ignored the factions of the coalition. And more about pooling the funds. We support the idea of pooling funds. But we're talking to the Minister of Social Policy. Please. I think we're going to support the committee's proposal to send it. We give you a day, two, three, whatever. Because, you see, we did 38 of your drafts in the night. What are we asking? This fund budget is going to be, you know, 20 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u314	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u315	Do you know how they go about their maintenance today? About five percent. We have to write: a very important restriction on the maintenance of administrations. And it should be written that all practical costs are directed only to the fulfilment of obligations under insured persons. Now look, you can read what these funds are doing on the website today. Scientific research, insurance consulting, analysis of the reasons -- all of these articles are all money laundering. Hard control. Tough help. And so we can understand if it's written that they're buying prosthetics so they don't collect, and 20 billion today can work to help the wounded ATO fighters. This bill will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u316	Thank you. I reiterate that we accept the bill as a basis. You'll work on it. Nice suggestions, but I've just heard from the rostrum about how it's better to put them out, but that's all in preparation for second reading. Colleagues, what do we do now? Here's the deal. Give me your word. I think we're going to give the groups who wanted to speak up in a minute. A group, who? "The will of the people"? Please, "The will of the people," Hirschfeld. Then it's called "Obs. "The Opposition Block," you reported, Your Honor. And the People's Front, Dennis. Please, Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u317	Hirschfeld Anatoly, 179 constituency, Kharkiv Region. I fully support the two previous speakers, and I would like to say that if we are making laws that need to be harmonized with European legislation today, it is necessary to understand clearly, even in those laws that are introduced in the first reading room, to limit the burden on the wage fund in order for our industry to be competitive with Eastern Europe, with Western Europe. We are competing with you today in global markets. And the burden of more than 30 per cent on the pay fund today is just unbreakable for our industry. Well, combined with the rates of the banks and the situation in Ukraine today. That's why I'd send this project for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u318	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we can also work on it in preparation for the second reading. Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u319	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, the committee has identified and made such a decision. But given all the responsibility, the faction of the "national front" will vote and take decisions on the adoption of this bill as a basis. But we're going to work with all the people's deputies, the committee, we've already set up a working group to work out non-professional approaches in the drafting of this law, which concerns part of the social insurance reform. So I'm asking you to take this as a base, and we're going to work on the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u320	That's a nice offer. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to come into the hall. We can. "opposition block," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u321	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this bill, the Government has cut the food and the food, on the one hand, they show a reduction in a single social contribution, and on the other hand, they are not creating a new fund, they are not creating a fund that will actually protect people, and they are combining two funds that deprive people of their rights to most articles of social protection. I want to remind you again, hospital bills are dropping. That is, all the people in our country who will receive the hospital will now receive 50 per cent of the salary and 80 per cent. Since then, the enormous burden on all employees has been transferred from the State budget to the Social Insurance Fund. That is, at the expense of the workers today who have spent their entire lives paying taxes trying to cover and provide social insurance to the public. We are absolutely against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u322	Please. I'd like all the national deputies to come into the hall. I give the final word to the Minister of Social Policy. I think there's been a normal proposal. On the ground and work on the committees, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u323	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to address Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel and the Fatherland faction. Alexander Volodymyrna, listen to me carefully. We can now talk and discuss how it should do and how it should balance the only social contribution. I completely agree with you. But I'm asking you to move this discussion to the committee level. For listen carefully, listen carefully. You see, you hear what is said in the hall today. This is not an issue of the EU's bet. Today, there is opposition to pooling funds, which is all. Not from you, not from you. Listen to what I'm saying, let's leave this corrupt mechanism that's in these funds today as it is. Do you understand? And I'm afraid that if we have absolutely no reason to reduce the EU, we have not engulfed the child today. And I'll say, especially Natalia Yuriovna Royal. You said the system that worked here for years was being destroyed. But it will break down, Natalia Yuriovna, and this corrupt system that existed in the Social Security Foundations will be destroyed. And what the Ukrainian National Deputies said, 25 percent of them go to the administration of these funds, it's true. That's true. And they unite to reduce administrative burdens and to transfer these funds directly to hospitals, to treatments, to prosthetics, to everything. I call on the people's deputies, let's now vote on this bill in the first reading. And in the committee together, the government is ready today for a discussion on lowering the rate of the only social contribution to those proposals that were spoken of and "self-help" in those proposals, and that Kugel said. But, you see, if we don't accept this right now, anything on the issue of combating corruption in social funds can be put on the cross. Because they're up now, and in all the newspapers, read which one. is raised around this issue. That's why I urge you. There are normal proposals, the government is ready to work night and day to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u324	All of it. Mr. Minister, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] In order to combat corruption in social funds, I place 1573 on the basis of my first reading. Please support, Your Honor, the fight against corruption in social funds. Please vote on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. On the basis of the first reading. On the basis of the first reading, please vote, Your Honor. Corruption is a fight! Based on the base. [[14:54:43]] For 244 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Next, please work with your colleagues on the committees. The minister of social policy was very tolerant, and I believe there are reasons for normal quality work today. Decision taken. 15. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. 1574, draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for some matters of State damage). Deputy Finance Minister Matthewchuk, 1574
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u325	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! You just made the right decision on Bill 1573. As far as Bill 1574 is concerned, this is a technical issue that relates to the Customs Law. When we unite these two funds, we need to change the name in the Customs Codex. That's a technical question. I ask you to support Bill 1574 just as you supported 1573. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u326	On the ground and in general, because the funds are changing. Okay? Should we put it to a vote? On the basis and in general, I vote, registration number 1574, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? On the basis and in general, the committee's proposal is a change of name. Is that what I'm saying? [[14:56:16]] For 240 The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. It's a technical name. Colleagues, what are we talking about? If something goes wrong, we change and change by Saturday. 240, there are no consequences. 1575, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for some matters of State damage) is 1575. I think it's derivative. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u327	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Similarly, technical changes regarding the change in the name of the Fund in connection with merger are made to the Tax Code. I also ask you to support the changes to the Customs Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u328	We're backing it up. We vote on the basis and in general, if there are any changes, then. Please put to the vote 1575 – technical changes as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general, a technical decision. [[14:57:23]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, another 15. Dear colleagues, I will review the registration number of document 1592 of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on State Aid to Victims of Mass Action and Members of Their Families. You remember that we took him into our daily routine. The rapporteur is National Deputy Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons of Trelyaków. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u329	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that on February 21, 2014, the Supreme Council passed the Act on the Establishment of State Aid to Victims of Mass Action and Members of Their Families. It's about the victims of our Ukrainian citizens who took part in protests against the Yanukovich gang, whose remains -- unfortunately, how those snakes leaked into today's Supreme Council and poisoned the lives of the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] The Supreme Council’s law stipulated that public aid to victims would be paid from the State Budget Reserve Fund for 2014. The year is coming, and a lot of people have not been helped. The changes I and other colleagues have proposed to amend the Law since February 21, 2014 and to anticipate spending on state aid to the affected participants in the Maydan protests from the 2015 budget. So this is one amendment: instead of the 2014 budget, we're setting out the 2015 budget. And so we're going to give the government the opportunity to make payments to our fellow citizens. I am surprised by the decision of the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons, which, for some reason, proposes that this bill be sent for work, motivated by the fact that there is no deadline for participants in this assistance. I do not think that this is an objective reason for not adopting this law. I would like Parliament to support this bill and honor the concrete actions of those heroes who defended the country from the Yanukovich gang. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u330	Please, the head of the Committee of the Third Party, Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u331	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee has carefully considered the amendment made by Oleg Lazko. First of all, he gave unreliable information, and the bill did not write for 2015, but “for the year in question”, that is, 2016, 2017, and 2018. Therefore, in 2-3 years, there will be another person who has never been to Maidan, but who will claim that they were in Maidan, and through lawsuits, two people in court, witnesses, court, we receive money. Now, who under this law should get the money? I absolutely agree that the families of the fallen heroes should receive, and it says "one million griven." But tell me, with today's situation in the country, it's the pensioner's ten-year salary, ten-year-old! - 200,000 people who've been "slightly injured." [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a bruise, excuse me! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm not ashamed to talk. Next, with regard to people with disabilities in Maidan. A law has been drafted along with the Maydan activists, and the Olga Bogholec Act has been drafted, where everyone who has become disabled in Maidan will receive all the rights of the State, including monetary compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u332	The case of the House and the case of the People's Deputies, how to vote in favour of this law. Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u333	There is no conscience to tell about the people who have suffered on Maidan and the coins to count. Billionaire is in Switzerland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u334	Dear colleagues, please 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, 2 for. People's deputy wolf, radical party. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u335	Please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u336	With respect to the coalition colleagues, the esteemed faction of the Peter Prashenko Block, but nevertheless, I mean, it seems to me that most of the national MPs who are here are absolutely surprised to hear such statements. When a billionaire MP enters Parliament's rostrum and tells: 200,000 people in Midan, it's a lot, it's immoral. It's immoral to leave this stupid hammer from the Supreme Council, because when they gave their lives, when the Celestial 100 died, where were you then? You weren't on the field, you were sitting in Switzerland and in Israel. And today, thanks to these murdered people, you are in the Ukrainian Parliament today. And you're saying that he said why does the state have to pay these coins? We owe them our lives, to those who stood on Maidan in the ice cream, to those who were unarmed against Yanukovich’s gang, against the armed militia. I think it's actually an immoral discussion on this issue. You have specifics. And call them "sons" of people who were on Maidan. Yes, we drank because we were warming up from the cold, otherwise we'd be frozen if we hadn't been drinking. And I was drinking there, too! You don't have a conscience to talk and beat up like that!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u337	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Yvchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u338	Dear colleagues, you know, thanks to those people standing on Maidan, we're sitting in this room today. As a result, the people who were standing on Maidan threw away the dictatorship that led the country into a chasm. So we just have no moral right not to support this bill. The Fatherland faction supports this bill, and we propose to all coalition partners to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u339	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u340	I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u341	Nestor Schuffrich. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u342	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! We went through these events differently a year ago. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! I can speak for myself. On the one hand, we were on the other side of the barricade, but on the other hand, we were doing everything we could not have done. And those people who weren't afraid to vote 20 February against specific calls and threats are in this room right now. And we will now support this bill in the first reading, although, of course, when social benefits are cut, this issue must be asked simultaneously with the preservation of social benefits for all citizens of our country, as the Constitution obliges. But I do have one question for one speaker in this room who's worried that someone's gone missing. And when you broke into my office, right, in front of the witnesses? I've never stayed in the office alone with you since I was deputy secretary to the National Security and Defence Council. Pick up the UDO, how many times this particular politician has been in Ljovczyn, Yanukovich, and now he is criticizing us! The people of Ukraine assessed our activities, and they said we were right. Right in our opposition to Yanukovic. And we're responsible for what we did. So I ask: Let us make decisions in this room that unite our country. And the fact that people who have suffered in Maidan have to be given what is due is what we agree with. But we need to stop speculation and remember that Ukraine is the only one in our language. But we have the opportunity to unite and live in a single country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u343	Thank you. There's no reason to say it, 'cause there wasn't a last name. Self-help, please, colleague. But there was no last name. [[B in m in s a l in]] Whom. Nestor Ivanovich, if you'll excuse me. Nestor Ivanovich, you didn't say the last name you had in mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u344	He said a line. He said he was a speaker. Who's the bigger speaker in the room?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u345	But here are 422 speakers, Oleg Valeriyovich, please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u346	Nestor Schufrich, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u347	Thank you, Your Honor. At the time, I had no last name. But if anyone recognizes himself, it's a question to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u348	Please, Self-Help, please. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u349	Paul Kishkar. I'm asking for your attention. I ask you to move from demagogy to making decisions. Actually, we have a busy schedule, if you've seen it. The Alliance Self-Help faction will be consistent in providing security and social guarantees for those people who have preserved this state, who have given us the opportunity to be national deputies today, to be present here and to make decisions that matter to the state. I ask you to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u350	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the People's Front is no wish. Is it? Excuse me, excuse me. Leonid Jemetz. I'm just gonna go get it. You're still from Peter Dusty Block. Please. Please. People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u351	Dear colleagues! Remembering those events on the field, we clearly understand that these boys and girls who were standing there, who were dying, who were getting injuries from Berkut, from aunts, they were coming there for no recognition, they were coming there for a heart call, to protect freedom, to protect the Ukrainian state. Therefore, the Ukrainian State should repay them, at least in order to remember them, to remember what they did. And I think it's our direct duty to provide them with social security. The People's Front faction will support this bill as a basis. And we invite this Supreme Council to fulfil its public duty to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u352	I think you've heard the offer. Please, Peter Dusty Block. And let's go to the vote. Please invite deputies to the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u353	You know I'm on this committee. And yesterday we're looking at this very interesting question that was raised by the distinguished Oleg Valeriyovich. And I want to say that there were a lot of different people, but none of your factions came to the committee for some reason. Why weren't your people on the committee? That's weird. That's the first one. The other one. I reported to Derevyanka yesterday. He said that somehow the real ATO fighters were not getting a certificate, and those who were once there had never been in the war had already received one. So the anti-Maidan people are coming in now with hundreds of dollars, and they want the benefits, because they have a plantation on their face. And you want us today, in general, to vote for it, certainly because we honor memory. But I say I have opened not one monument to the Hero of the Heavenly 100, for some reason here, there I have not seen those who have proposed this bill. (Noise in the hall) You're not ashamed. I didn't see you. On Teremach 1. This time. Now look on. Listen, why weren't you here? Why weren't you on the committee yesterday? Again. I propose to vote in general, but to finish this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u354	Friends. Thank you. Dear friends! Listen to me, please. I'm asking you not to turn on the microphone on the stand. Dear friends! I have one. I have one proposition. Take your seats. Calm down and take your seats! Dear friends! Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. I think you'll all agree with me now. The court should not disunite the hall, it should unite. And all those who now speak are right in one thing only, that God does not give right to those who give their lives and their health, to the people who give their lives and their health, to take advantage of them softly, not being honest in the hands of men, and that is why we will not be forgiven here with you. So I suggest I put it to a vote. Take your seats. Adopt the bill as a basis. Put him on the committee. I would like to consider it in order that no person who is not honest in hand may take advantage of this status and the possibilities that will arise as a result of the adoption of this law. I think it will be fair, it will be objective, and it will be fair to these people. Please. I'm putting it to a vote and I'm asking you to support Bill 1592 as the basis for the first reading. Thank you for your understanding and support, distinguished national deputies. Please vote. Based on the base. Please vote all, Your Honor. On the basis of the first reading. [[15:13:27]] For 287 Thank you. Colleagues! I'm assigning a committee, because there were some nuances, I'm assigning a committee to work with the deputies, to take into account the idea that it was an honest law that wouldn't allow abuse. Yuri Lucenko from the faction, there are two words to the faction of "The Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u355	Dear Mrs. Kugel, Sasha. Dear Mrs. Alexander Kugel, on behalf of the faction and myself, I personally apologize for the tactlessness shown to you. We all know you on Maidan, and we respect and forgive you, this will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u356	Guys, I'd like that. Here's what Yuri Lucenko said right now, come on, this is going to be the norm of our lives. But whatever you and I are looking at, well, you can't insult each other. You can't do that. Because we're sowing with you instead of constructive aggression. Is there not enough aggression in our lives today, my friends? I'd like that very much. Replica, Oleg Lazko. Ten seconds, Oleg Valeriyovich. 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u357	A colleague named Nestor Schufrich mentioned our meetings in 2012 in his office when he was appointed Secretary of the RNBO. Yes, there have been such meetings. There were two such meetings. Nestor, but you'd tell people what you wanted from me! I guess so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u358	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u359	Because Shufrich was ashamed to say what he wanted to say, I will say. And please consider my application a crime report to the Attorney General. Nestor Schufric in 2012 in June, in his capacity as Deputy Secretary of the RNB Ukraine, in the presence of himself, he confirmed, several people, offered me $3 million for me to go along the Prilutsky district against Rudzkowski, with whom he had a business conflict. I sent Shufrich away. He went around Bahmatsky County and won this district. So tell the truth, motherfucker! Where you take money, how you do corruption, and so on. So I ask the Attorney General to consider my claim to commit corruption on the part of Shufric and to bring him to justice. Witnesses were present to confirm what I said. And God sees it to be true! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u360	Thank you. Let's move on. I beg you, Nestor Ivanovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The replica on the line. Quiet! [[B in m in s a l in]] My friends, please take your seats. We're working on it. Dear colleagues, we're working on it. The next question is 1580. Take your seats. 1580: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to simplify business conditions. Reported to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Abromavicius Ivaras. Please, Minister, to the rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. Calm down. Have a seat, please. Thank you so much for your understanding. Have a seat, please. I'd like to ask very carefully, the minister will report. Please listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u361	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor! I'd like to have a nice talk first. When we talked about reform, the public and the MPs say, "Start, start as fast as you can."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u362	Dear colleagues, deregulation. I'd like to ask very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u363	So 10 minutes ago, I signed an order for a new structure for the Ukrainian Department of Economic Development and Trade, where the number of departments will be reduced from 24 to 15 and will be reduced. [[Applause]] Accordingly, there will be a serious reduction in the number of staff, it will not be 10 per cent, as we have done, it will not be 20 per cent, it will be significantly higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u364	It's called, you know, killing a dragon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u365	I think in two months, we'll see a new kind of ministry in three. With regard to deregulation. There was a lot of discussion. Because of the enormous lack of time, we accept constructive criticism that there may be some shortcomings in the bill. Once again, I would like to recall who participated in the drafting of this bill. These were all organizations that had something to do with the deregulation environment in Ukraine, the European Business Association, the Ukrainian Club. Businesses, non-State organizations such as: "Professional government" et cetera. Therefore, without detail, I would like you to support this bill in the first reading, to sit immediately at the holidays, those who do not leave, I do not go anywhere, to finish immediately, and by the time the bill passes on the second reading, we will have a good bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u366	Let me finish, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u367	Mrs. Kugel has passed a similar bill. We're ready to sit down and compare and, therefore, watch which one better and move on. I think we don't need to stop, today is a Christmas day, in many European countries, and if we show that we are working here, too, without looking back, it will be a good signal for both our public and our business community and our Western partners. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u368	Let me finish with the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u369	It's a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u370	Thank you, Minister. Two, yes. Yes, you can. Take your seats. Two in, two in. Ah, the Curly Gennady Grigorovich. Yes, the head of the committee, the industrial policy subcommittee. Please, a co-reporter. Hennady Grigorovich, head of the subcommittee. Yes. Please. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u371	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank the new minister for his very constructive and correct approach to drafting a bill. I would like to point out that this bill amends 64 laws and codes. At the same time, I wanted to remind you that the purpose of adopting this bill is to deregulation of economic activity, which will allow Ukraine to increase its position in the Doing Business ranking. During the consideration of the bill, the committee came to have a mixed opinion among the members of the committee. And at this stage, the members of the committee noted and pointed out that the bill really needed to be finalized, because to accept it in such an order, acceptance of it in such an order could lead to a certain collapse, particularly the corresponding rules, of legal regulation. At the same time, we understand and personally understand that every MP would like and has the right to make appropriate changes and comments to the bill. Therefore, at this stage, the Committee's proposal is followed, to take up the Supreme Council and to suggest that it be returned to the authors of the legislative initiative. My position as a representative of the faction, as a member of the committee and as a representative of the People's Front faction, is to adopt the bill as a basis, and continue to allow before second reading each of the deputies to work with the Ministry of Economics and support the bill. Thank you. I sounded the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u372	Thank you, Your Honor. Please two for, two for against, as far as I can tell, and you. Self-help, national deputy of the Podlissecki Leo Theophilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u373	I'm asking you to give Sergei Kira a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u374	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u375	Dear colleagues, the Self - Help Unit, Sergey Kiral. In fact, the bill was discussed on the committee. The question is not simple enough; it is large enough. And there's a lot of different suggestions, there's a lot of thoughts, not all of them are positive. There are many questions to the government and to the Ministry of Economics in particular about an open, real desire to conduct a so-called regulatory guillotine. Because we need guillotine today, not some extra regulatory stuff that we've seen a lot more there. Hence, he clearly needs further work. We're with the committee, and Alexander Volodymyrna, and others are willing to work on it. But we also ask representatives of the ministry, government representatives, please don't simulate reforms, don't simulate deregulation, we need very serious changes there to make business, especially small and medium-sized, feel the difference between what was and between what we want to create. We need system changes, not imitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u376	We're taking the base? Based on what?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u377	On the ground, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u378	Thank you. I think it's a very good offer and it's constructive. Peter Dustock's Block, please, Natalia Novak. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u379	Please pass the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a colleague to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u381	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u382	There are very good standards here. Standards that apply, for example, to replan apartments where construction structures do not move, where there is no need for a mass of officials, and corruption is taken away. Where it changes, many cancel out licensed activities. Where many other issues are addressed, where corruption and extremely dangerous things arise. Bo. corruption. Sanitary and veterinary control, and so on. There are standards that raise questions and I can give you some standards. For example, I can't understand why we need to keep a register of local authorities' decisions. Well, the official must know what the street was called in Makyivka or in Berdichev and so on. There are standards that apply to one of our ministries in the business structure. Because it provides for the ability to pay the lot in the form of a percentage for the actions that have been taken. We have no right to let that happen. But in general, this bill contains very good things. Including the cancellation of so-called land projects. I propose that we support the first reading, that we make adjustments to the second reading, and we may not rush into it, for this law is not directly related to the adoption of the budget. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u383	Thank you. National Deputy Rybchin Aleksei Mikhailovich "The Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u384	I give you my word, Alexandra Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u385	Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u386	Dear Mr. Minister! Dear friends! Probably no one in my life expected that all my political life, which I gave to deregulation for the protection of entrepreneurs, I first raised my hand to send the law to work. I refer to you, and to our team, with great sympathy, but when I read these two volumes by the fourth morning, which were called deregulation, which I was so looking forward to continuing what we did last year, it was very painful. Because you know what this is? While you've been preparing their cuts, they've left all their "hotels" behind. We did not expect such a bill. Unfortunately, those good standards, and the young team and the people who worked as experts, they have 5 percent of the normal supply here. Everything else is the creation of none, as Mr. Pinzenik said, and four registers. Dear friends! Making a register is 10 million from the budget and getting bribes every month - 100,000 dollars. Create a register. How did we live with you for 20 years, Mr. Minister, without a tourist registry? How did we live 20 years without a metal-breaker registry? In fact, that's all they've really taken advantage of, and I welcome you, and thank you for cutting down the ministries. But this bill cannot be finalized today. I suggest you make one more point, listen very carefully, that your officials have let you down, and I suggest, as everyone who's prepared to fire you today, I suggest that you do. At the Supreme Council, a new draft law on licensing was adopted on a new first reading. In the Mineconomy, it is proposed to amend the reduction of licensing in the old bill, which will be repealed within a month. Tell me, please, how can this be worked out? That's why I'm suggesting that we're ready to work as the Fatherland faction, please, with you and the weekends as much as possible. Let's finish it by day and we can even vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u387	Thank you. Please, "The Opposition Block," Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u388	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we certainly support this bill because it has deregulation functions, and Mrs. Cugel's suggestion was that it should be accepted by the end of the year, and we must do everything possible to do so. Mr. Head, I also want to take advantage of my right to reply, and now I want to raise a question that does not apply to this bill. My last name just came up with Mr. Oleg Lazko. Mr. Lazko, indeed, and we testified, he visited the National Security and Defence Council premises more than twice, here he was wrong. But what are some of the questions? Of course, he offered some suggestions first for 5 million and then for three, but they couldn't be taken. And why he came, and not only to the National Security and Defence Council, but to the President's Administration, it would be interesting to know society.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u389	Thank you. It's not about the question. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Thank you. You said what you wanted. It has been said that you should continue to study according to Ukrainian legislation. Dear friends! Please, from the factions that did not participate in the discussion, please, Victor Halasyuk, then Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u390	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u391	Sit down, dear fellows, calm down! Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends! But why should you not find a relationship in a civilized way? For this reason, there are many other issues that can be settled in court. I urge you to. Today, colleagues, Christmas! Fear God, dear friends! It's Christmas. Fear God, I emphasize again. One said, "The other said, "That's it, that's it." Dear colleagues, let's sit down, keep working. Everything, everything, calm down, calm down. That's it. That's very good. Mrs. Mathios, you see what miracles do. Give you God’s health. All of this, only in a civilized way do you have a relationship to find out. One said, the other said, it's over. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u392	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u393	Discipline in the hall, discipline. All right, everybody, calm down, guys. Oleg Valeriyovich, I warn you of your personal responsibility. Discipline in faction, Nestor Ivanovich, and you are personally responsible. I'm going to remove it from the hall. I'll get out of the hall, I said. Take your seats and work for the good of Ukraine, not for each other. All right, sit down, MPs. We're working. National MP Moseschuk, keep your hands with you, please. It's you. This isn't a boxing room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u394	This is not a boxing hall. Your colleague is standing in the rostrum, respect him, from the Radical Party. Please, Mr. Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u395	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Radical Party faction, insists on sending this bill to the author. I want to emphasize that this is a decision made by a professional committee, and this is the recommendation of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Why? Because this bill instead of real deregulation, it creates a series of new registers, it concentrates on a number of additional powers in the Cabinet of Ministers that were previously regulated at the level of the law. It's not a deregulation. It's the other way around. In addition, there are substantial lobbying standards for the benefit of large landowners who do not want to meet the requirements for marriage. As far as illegal mining is concerned, any state control is being removed. This law cannot be adopted. I'll tell you just one rule, and you tell me if it's deregulation. Exemption from the loss of agricultural and forestry production
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u396	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u397	buildings, construction of oil, gas wells, manufacturing facilities, and so forth. It's not deregulation, it's going to have to be reworked, because it's not good for business.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u398	Thank you for your position. Please, Oksana Sold, Peter Dust Block. And we'll cheat. Oh, excuse me, then Ostap Semerak. Oksana Sold, then Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u399	Dear colleagues, you and I are now discussing a bill, actually the first one today, which creates conditions for the Ukrainian business. And if we're going to listen to all of you who are opposed to reducing the procedures, and these people are actually in Ukraine, unfortunately, very much, we're never going to provide the Ukrainian business with the conditions that we all want. So I'm asking you very much, yes, there are negatives, yes, there's not everything we want to do, but vote in the first reading and then by amendment take away what we think is unnecessary. But the ideas that we've been expecting from the Ministry of Economics and from the government, we have to support and polish them to the second reading today. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u400	Thank you. Please, Ostap Semerak. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats. Now I'm going to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u401	Dear colleagues, this is actually another step, a necessary step that the Ukrainian government is taking. I would like to remind you that in the last nine months, however our enemies might wish to do so, Ukraine has moved forward with the Doing business rating: we have entered a hundred. These decisions were made by the government, but that is not enough government decisions. We need the Ukrainian Parliament to support the government in simplifying business. I thank the government for introducing this bill. Next. I'd like to say that this is another step, and we're not going to stop at that. Parliament Speaker Volodymyr Groissman was absolutely right, this is the fight against the dragon. And we're gonna have to fight this dragon more than once. Secondly, what I wanted to point out is that this law conforms to our legislation to the European Union's legislation and carries with it other than deregulation European standards into Ukrainian legislation. It is essential to support the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u402	Thank you. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, please take your seats in the working room, prepare for the vote. A few things. First. There is now a very professional discussion, perhaps for the first time in many, many years of the Ukrainian Parliament. She may not be very pleasant, but she is. So I think it would be very appropriate for these discussions to come to a decision. We have an economic minister present, a man who works in power not too long ago. But today he went out to this rostrum and passed the first bill. And this sin today will not support him. On the other hand, support, prepare, and in the second reading, we will find (a solution). I'll put it to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare. Law, registration number 1580. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to simplify business conditions. On the basis of the first reading of 1580, I ask you to support this bill in the first reading on the basis. Vote please, Your Honor. Please support the minister's first law. [[15:38:15.]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. We need to stimulate initiatives and work together. I've seen that they've already started working with Alexander Volodymyrna. Thank you for your understanding, distinguished national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is now under the draft Order for the formation of a commission to conduct a competition for the Director of the National Democratic Bureau of Ukraine. An extremely important question. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Soboljevo Egor Viktorovich. Please, Yegor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u403	Colleagues, you all know we have a huge task to run the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thanks to MPs, government members have already provided funding for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, along with the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Now another step remains to be taken to form members of a competitive commission that, regardless of the politicians, has to choose the father of this office, the person who has to start it, who has to make it a real fighter against corruption. You and I have initiated a discussion about what such an assignment should be done immediately before the New Year so that these people could start working. After that, the President of Ukraine and the Government of Ukraine delegated their people to the National Anticorruption Bureau. We've got some work left to do. Three names are proposed, they're discussed on our committee, they're names given by MP factions and groups. First of all, it's about Joan Kessler, who's struggling with money laundering in the European Union, one of the most authoritative experts in this field. Eugenia Nietschuk's candidate, supported by the People's Front, is a culture minister, who we all know from the time of Eromanadean. And a man who is often called the father of the Ukrainian Constitution, Victor Musiak. These are three names that are discussed by factions that have been introduced by factions into the committee and supported by the committee. Please take this step and allow the competition bureau to choose the best in the world director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u404	Thank you, Mr. Yegor. [[Applause]] We know that the President made proposals, the government made proposals, the Parliament case. And we have no right to stop this decision. So I will now put to the vote on the basis and as a whole this decision, on the formation of a commission to hold a competition for the post of Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, registration number 1614. Dear colleagues! I'd like to take my seats. People's deputies, prepare for the vote. Take your seats, honourable deputies. We will now vote in favour of forming a commission to hold a competitive position as director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Decree, registration number 1614. Please support this Decision Project. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[15:41:47]] For 292 [[Applause]] Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. Next question. Draft Act on the denunciation of the Agreement between the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus. There's a lot of reporters here. The committee didn't look at him. There's an offer to move it. Please. There's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u405	It doesn't. There are four alternative bills. There are no conclusions from the profile committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u406	Yesterday. Yeah. Report on the profile committee that they weren't looking at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u407	is proposed to postpone until the conclusions of the profile committee on all alternative drafts are reached. It is therefore proposed to postpone the consideration of these bills until then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u408	Please, Oleg Lazko. Then Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u409	The Soviet Union is no longer 23 years old, and the shameful Treaty, which allows tens of thousands of billions of dollars to be exported from Ukraine during this time, continues to work. So I don't think that's the reason I didn't have any conclusions. I propose to consider the bill and to make a historic decision today, at last, both on the basis and in general. The decision to cancel, the denunciation of the Agreement between the Soviet Union and Ukraine. That's a very important question. It's a real delligarchization, it's offshoring the Ukrainian economy. Because today, thanks to other agreements, money made in Ukraine instead of investing in its own national production is taxed offshore. The state of Ukraine is losing out on this. Then the funds stolen in Ukraine return from offshore. Once again, taxes are not paid because they come in as investments. And Ukraine loses twice. That's enough! Stop stealing!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u410	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic. Then Alexander Dobromwski. Then there's Anna Gopko. Then Yuri Lewchenko, then Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u411	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! From a formal legal point of view, there really is no document. But they have one object of regulation in these laws. You can agree to move this project, consider the project. But no more than two days. We can look at it on Sunday, because it's very important to the budget. We need to make a decision to close the big tax avoidance scheme. This is related to the adoption of the budget. And we have to answer a question that can't be solved 20 years in a row. So there is an offer to consider it on Sunday and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u412	Thank you. Please, Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u413	Dear colleagues! I support the adoption of this bill, and I believe that it should be accepted in minimally concise terms, supporting the position of the People's Deputies of Pinzenik. But at the same time, I would like to point out that it is definitely against the negative practice of the previous seventh call, when the bills were written and signed on the knee, to be introduced into the session room without consideration by the profile committees. It was a bad practice. I'm definitely against this, this position. We need to run all the draft laws through the profile committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u414	Thank you. Please, Leuchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u415	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. In fact, what we have right now is this question, this is a test for this room, whether we're doing the bitaphoria, whether we're really trying to fill the state budget. Because on one side we hear all day about how to cut, cut, cut, cut, cut, and cut again. On the other hand, we finally got the opportunity to fill out the government budget by adopting this bill. To fill in some sort of, let's say, a lot of people sitting in this room right now, I'd say, a couple of hundred, I'd say. And that's why this bill is going to fall. So as the author of the denunciation bill (and, by the way, not the agreement, but the convention with Cyprus, someone said it was no longer working, it was working this convention right now) I insist that this bill now be put into the room and there was a vote. And let everyone show that they think of ordinary Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u416	Please, Klimpush-Cincadze, please. Then Boris Tarasyuk, and at the conclusion of the committee of Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u417	Thank you. Colleagues, at the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we were looking at Bills Nos. 0001 and 0001-1. The point is that Bill No.0001 refers to the denunciation of the agreement, which, in fact, has already ceased its operation. So the committee's decision was to reject the bill and not bring it up to date. An alternative bill was considered a bill by Mr. Levchenk and his colleagues. And he was actually offered. sent for work and coordination with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which, on the same day that we considered on the committee, gave the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a mandate to negotiate with the Cypriot side regarding, in fact, the review of the convention conditions between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus. So we sent this bill on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u418	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u419	And Bill No. 0001-2 was not considered on the committee. And that's why Mrs. Oksana Siroid really said that there are not all the conclusions of the committee on all the bills. We'd like to take this up on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u420	Thank you. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u421	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Fatherland faction has struggled for many years to eradicate Ukrainian capitals from our country and to transfer them into offshore zones, including Cyprus. That's why we introduced Bill 0001. At the same time, we believe that we cannot postpone consideration of this, these issues, these four bills, and we need to vote on them in the room right now. As we meet other drafters of the bill, we are prepared to withdraw, as drafters of the 0001 bill, we are prepared to withdraw it in favour of the government bill 0001-3. And please put the bill 0001-3 to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u422	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Please, Anna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u423	Colleagues, I wanted to support Parliament's Vice Speaker, Oksana Siroid, and follow our rules. First. Our committee did not consider a bill of government. The other one. Cyprus is ready to review the agreement and make changes and create a working group on this issue. And it's very important to us right now to build relationships with different countries. And to do that, I would like to say that before I make that decision, I think not only Cyprus, but many other countries should. If the government declares a complex fight against offshores, it must be a well - prepared bill. And so the request now that our committee review and then postpone this vote now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u424	There's an offer, I think it's going to be generalized, send it to the committee for further harmonization. Victor Mikhailovich? Pinzenic. Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u425	Dear colleagues, there's no work in this area. There's nothing to work on. We can argue about which option is better or worse, and we need to make decisions. My friends, I personally negotiated this deal. I say there's no desire for one party to sign, they don't need it. Unfortunately, we got into an awkward situation where the partner wasn't interested, four times a standard agreement, a normal agreement in 2007 and 2008 was drawn up. Until the government in which I worked failed to pass a denunciation, on the second day, the minister of finance arrived in Kiev to negotiate. We have to help resolve this situation by denunciation of the agreement. So I insist that we consider these agreements on Sunday. But we can't postpone, because the negotiations won't do anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u426	Clearly, respectable colleagues. I think we can do it now, because. Listen, one, two, three, four bills, on each of them there are different opinions, there are profiling committees where the procedure is not followed. Well, now, I think it's completely wrong. So I'm going to take it off the table, I'm going to send it to the committee, and I want you to work it out, and I want you to bring it in as it is. Your bill was considered on the committee, but there are alternative bills and there must be one. All right, your honor, according to the rules, I take it off the table, I send it to the committees. Please, no vote, please. Please, Your Honor. You're not yelling, please. You're not yelling, please. The Standing Committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u427	The question is not ready for voting. Obviously, committee work is needed to meet the rule of law. In order to be sent to the proper procedure, it is proposed that a procedural decision be put to the vote to refer to the committee, 150 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u428	I'm betting on voting on sending drafts to the committees. Procedurally. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[15:53:12]] For 196 It's a procedural decision for the committee. Please make these suggestions agreed on Sunday. Make agreed suggestions, please, so that we do not have any misunderstandings on this matter. Please continue to work, 1564 bill on the draft Law on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring. Please Deputy Finance Minister Lisovenko Vitaly Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u429	Honourable fellow members of the National Deputies, taking into account the current difficult situation in the banking field, the government, along with the National Bank, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, prepared the bill on the following. The current legislation provides 3 ways out of a difficult situation in which any commercial or state bank may find itself. The first way. When there's not enough capital, the owner himself can report it, add it to the capital with new money. Another way. This is when both the current owner and the state add extra capital to such a bank. And the third way is when neither the state nor the current owner can do it. In that case, this bank is going through the deposit guarantee fund procedure for liquidation. This procedure exists now, but the subject of this law is to improve this procedure in such cases so that it doesn't go on for many, many months. And that's why in this bill we're proposing a joint reduction mechanism, a maximum reduction in bureaucratic procedures for any bank that will be affected by the current situation. One of the money in this bill is that when the current owner of the bank and the bank’s management, which led the situation in this bank to a difficult one, and when the state goes into the bank’s capital, there will be two mandatory things. First, regardless of how much the State gives to the bank’s capital, the State must be in control of 75 plus 1 share.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u430	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u431	It's in this bank. And second, very interesting money. This is because in such a case, when the state enters into the bank’s capital, all the costs, both the current owner and the management and the Supervisory Board, which are in the bank, are necessarily transferred to the bank’s capital. So they essentially confiscate with these people and transfer to the capital of the bank for the purposes of this bank. Yesterday we considered this bill on the committee and we received support. Therefore, we ask for support in the first and last reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u432	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two in favour, two in the opposite direction or one in a minute from the faction? Is there any objection to that. Is there a denial? Rybalko Sergey Viktorovich is a co-rapporteur. Then Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u433	Dear head! Dear colleagues! At a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Financial Policy and Banking yesterday, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring was considered. Submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine The bill provides for a package of measures to strengthen the financial capacity of the banking system. In line with the memorandum on economic and financial policy set up under the IMF-Shared Standby Programme, an independent diagnostic examination of Ukraine's 35 largest banks. In connection with this project, banks are required to provide additional capitalization — capitalization, restructuring in the size of the National Bank. Also, the bill provides that the National Bank of Ukraine, in carrying out bank supervision, has the right to determine the temporary features of regulation and supervision of banks when there are signs of an unsustainable financial situation in the banking system. As a result of a lively discussion of the bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee raised a number of questions to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the specificities and mechanisms of capitalization of sources of expenditure, periods and so on. I will also point out the right proposals for the resolution of certain provisions of the bill, from the fund to guarantee the contributions of individuals and the National Bank of Ukraine, which are proposed to be taken into account in the drafting of the bill in the committee for second reading. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with some remarks to the bill and believes that the bill needs to be finalized. On the basis of the foregoing, the Committee, by its decisions, recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the prescribed bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u434	Victor Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u435	Dear colleagues, an extraordinary problem. An extremely important problem is raised by this law, to which we have little access, is the recovery of the banking sector, which is experiencing very difficult times. And there's a decision that needs to be made, and the project is trying to find a solution, and we need to support this bill in the first reading. But I want to announce three problems that need to be solved. The first problem when it comes to State participation in banks, the State's task is not to save owners, we're talking about bank rescue. These are completely different things. And this is a very important thing -- the correct estimate of the real value, the diagnosis of the bank's capital value, because some banks, unfortunately, cost nothing, they have as much problem loans as their capital. Well, I don't want to call it a number. And it is very important to evaluate correctly, for the State is obliged to recapitalize or recapitalize. So there's a question of diagnostics, and I'd like to have procedures clearly written down that make this a capital. The problem of the second, the decision of the State to participate, is to be made by the owners ’ congregations. I think this rule needs to be clarified why. There's got to be a tool to be used to save the bank. There's got to be a tool to be used for forced nationalization. I do not rule out that owners may not decide to participate in the State, and the bank is an institution whose disappearance can affect many of the entities holding deposits in that bank, or legal persons. That's why. You may have read the information when banks in Austria were nationalized, and the owners were paid off. The Bank of Austria was one nationalized for one euro, one euro was returned to the owners, and then the state became the owner. These procedures should be described because we can block through the congregations the possibility of making a decision. And last but not least, the alienation of assets. I was deeply concerned about the record that is in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u436	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u437	the assets are made according to the method, the cost determination that sets up the deposit guarantee fund. I'm not going to comment on this question, because you all understand that the problem of Ukraine, the bank has to answer on its liabilities with its assets. Many people did not stand on the street under the National Bank if there were transparent procedures for the disposal of assets. Because the bank has more than a liability, it has assets, it has loans. And if loans are sold on transparent terms, we can do without a guarantee fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u438	Give me another 15 seconds. Please, Victor Mikhailovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u439	meet the liabilities to the investors. These are the three key problems that I have highlighted that need to be taken into account in preparing for the second reading. Now I would like to invite a colleague to support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u440	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. I'd like to ask you before giving the floor, I'd like to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall, and there'll be a vote now. Please, People's Front, I don't see a last name. Last name? Polakov? Please, the People's Deputies of Polyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front faction supports the draft bill for the decapitalization of banks, because our banks are now in very difficult shape. So now we need to help them together. But it is important and there are many suggestions for reprocessing in the second reading. In the first, take it as a basis, because there's a question about the guarantee fund and it's very important that it's really under control and there's an understanding of how it's going to be, what's going to be the assessment, what's going to be the assessment, what's going to be the joint participation of both the National Bank and the Minister of Finance. That's why I'm calling on all my fellow national MPs to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u442	Thank you. Based on the base. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I will now put to the vote the bill (registration number 1564). Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to enter the hall. Based on the project (No. 1564): the draft Law on Measures to Promote Capitalization and Restructuring of Banks. We have heard professional thoughts on this subject. On the basis of the first reading and further development of second reading, preparation. Please, people's deputies, come into the hall. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. On the basis of the first reading. On the basis of the first reading. [[16:04:08]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I am referring to the question of the release of judges. I invite you to report to the Justice Council of Lydia Mikhailna Mazur. Draft Decree No. 1624: On the release of judges. Please, Your Honor. Please, Lydia Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u443	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to part five, paragraph 9, of article 126, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to make a corresponding submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Judges have found the reality of the will, the foreign influence, or the coercion of their decision to release. Of the 109 judges, 58 were 65 years of age. The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that the judges be released. In connection with the application for resignation to be released from the posts of judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Harchenk Vasil Vasilovich; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Zarjek Anastasia Alexiyevna, Moskalenko Viktor Semenović, Przikov Evgen Volodymyrovich, Handurin Mikol Ivanovich; The Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on civil and criminal matters of Orlov Svetlana Alexandrovna, the Court of Appeal of the Guzola Pavlov Petrovich District; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Dnipropetrovka Alexandr Grigorovich, Kuzmenko Valentina Mihaylovna, Lisniak Viru Sergiyevna, Mikhaylovska Svetlana Yuriovna, Turik Valentina Porfirovna, Chubukov Aleksija Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Lupin's Ludmila Mikhailna; the Court of Appeal of the Zitomir district of Prokopchuk Sergey Mikolayovich; the Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv District of Flisco Roman Josephovich, Shalaut Galina Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Kyiv district of Malorod Alexandr Ivanovich, Cerkasov Vladimir Mikolaiovich; The Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region of the Mogile Oleg Pavlovich, Palík Andriy Alexiyovich, Víktor Dmitrovitch, Savchenko Seraphim Onufriyevna, Chernish Tamara Volodymyrovna; the Court of Appeal of the District of Lviv Danko Vladimir Vasilovich; The Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Borisenko Petar Trochymovich, Melniczuk Valerija Alexandrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Antonov Volodymyr Mikolayovic; the Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Lugo Mikol Grigorovitch; The Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv Region of Averina Natalija Volodymyrovna, Bikova Larissa Petrovna, Brinchev Anatolia Petrovich, Longev Yuri Dmitrovič, Kiselova Grigoria Stepanovich, Kramarenko Galina Petrovna, Lesika Sergio Mikolaiovich, Samson's Valentina Georgievna, Struk Ivan Fedorovich, Toustoluzandra Antonovna, Shevchenka Yuri Petrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Dubchenk Anatoly Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Harchuk Viktor Mihajlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Supreme Igor Viktorovich, Litvintsev Vladimir Mihajlovich, Munka Boris Pavlovich, Ohrimenko Ivan Kirilovich, Skice Mikola Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Chernivetsk Region of Chernów, Alex Kostinović; the Court of Appeal of the Montenegrin District of Smogluk Raís Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of Kiev Laskalovsk, Valentina Ivanovna, Poltavtsev Galina Andriyovna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Usnko Vasil Grigorovitch; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal, Manjour Valentine Vasilovna; Kharkiv Economic Court of Appeal Afanassiev Vladimir Viktorovich; Mohilev-Podil District Court of the Winnicke District of Romanov Peter Fedorovich, Sokolov Vladimir Alexiyovich; The Apostolic District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Penzev Mikhail Mikhailovich; Vassilkov District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Usakowa Ninel Eugene; Nicopolian City Court of Dnipropetrov district of Troyan Natalija Anatoliyevna; The Red Guard District Court of Dnipropetrovska Leona Alexandra Jakovic; The Provincial District Court of the city of Krivo-Rog of the Dnipropetrov region of Valovov Valentina Grigorovna; Velionovosilkow district court of the Donetsk district of Druk Petr Mikolaiovich; The Kirov City Court of the Donetsk region of Christopher Boris Alexandrovich; The Red-Leiman City Court of the Donetsk Region of the Moroz Lina Ivanovna; The Selidium City Court of the Donetsk district of Jasin Alexander Volodymyrovich; The Torez City Court of the Donetsk district of Harkavenk Sergey Ivanovich, Pushnov Alexander Alexiyovich; Central City District Court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region of Jorgendre Ivanovich; The Primorski District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Luzan Vladimir Vasilovich; Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir district of Hickek Mikola Grigorovitch; The Berdian District Court of Zaporozhye District of Vienna, Tetian Grigorovna; Melitopol, District Court of Zaporozhye district of Baranov Vladimir Igorovich; The Lenin District Court of Zaporozhye Dzizenko Lilia Anatoliyevna; The Lord's District Court of Kyiv District, Yusik Mikhail Mikolaiovich; The Fastev District Court of Kyiv, Bartko Viktor Mikolaiovich; The famous Regional Court of Kyrovograd, Popov, Natalia Ivanovna; Anthracite City Court of Luhansk district of Sknarin Nell Mikolayevna; Lutugina District Court of Luhansk Region, Kotishtewa Lydia Pavlovna; The First-Major City Court of the Luhansk district of Sádal Lilia Borisovna; The Stone-Buzsky District Court of the Lviv Region of Gorsko Lydia Bogdanovna; The railway district court of Lvova Riginu Lyubov Mihaylovna; The first-major municipal court of the Mikolai district of Gorbenko Svetlana Anatoliyevna; The ship's district court of Mikolyeva Batchenko Viacheslav Grigorovich; The Central District Court of Mikolayeva Galaguzu Volodymyr Vasilovich, Selivnov Olen Alexandrovna; The Kili district court of the Odessa district of Boskov Mikol Ivanovich; the Suvorov district court of the city of Odessa Jurik Volodymyr Fedorovich; The Mid-Budge District Court of the Suma District of Banchukov Víra Ivanovna; the Yampil District Court of the Suma District of Seleznov Valentina Ivanovna; The Provincial District City of Harkova Grigoriev Alla Alexiyevna; The Moscow District Court of Harkov Jaremchuk Valery Ivanovich; Lissian District Court of the Czerka district of Złototopy Alexander Ivanovich; Umánsk District Court of Cherkas, Marinchuk Mikhail Pavlovich; Spolyan district court of the Cherka district of Mishin Mikol Ivanovich; Intina District Court of Czernovets region of Hergeliziu Remus Fedorović, Martinjuk Anatolia Omelanovic; The right-wing district court of Kyiv Dubinina Vitali Ivanovich; Obolon District Court of Kiev Prudnik Oleg Anatoliyovich; The Zitomir District Administrative Court of Lithuania, Alexi Terentiyovich, Rakalovich Viktor Mikolaiovich; the Economic Court of the Volin Region of Cherniak Love of Alexandrovna; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrovsk Region of Bodilovsky Maria Mikhailnovna; The economic court of the Zakarpat district of Kadar Josif Josifovich; Ivano-Frankiv District Court of Commerce Olen Mikitovna; Lviv County Economic Court of Gulika Grigori Stepanović, Stansk Lukjan Lukjanović; Sumska District Economic Court Sergey Alexiyovich and the court-martial of the Hersonian region of Evelyn's Zha Ivanovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u444	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection? I don't think so. Is it? There's a national MP. Please, a national MP. Last name? Dove. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u445	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. People's MP Dove Vladislav, block of Peter Prashenko, 197 constituency, Cherkashina. I have been asked to withdraw my candidacy for Skic Mikola Ivanovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region, because I am getting a lot of attention about the judge's activities right now. And, as of today, I will sign the application to the High Council of Justice regarding the review of the judge's activities, and I ask that you postpone consideration of this. This is precisely what the judge does because he resigns at his own request, and there is reason to release him in connection with the breach of an oath. So I'm asking you to postpone the trial on this particular judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u446	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u447	I'm sorry. With regard to those judges for whom the application has been submitted today, all complaints have been heard on the day of the appeal to the Supreme Council. If there's any complaints about today, there's no way to look at them, you understand that. Because there is no legitimate composition for today. And the reasons why these judges should be included in the draft decree are, according to the application, there is. Because today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u448	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u449	Dear colleagues! We are now not allowed to accept the happiness package, which limits a number of wages. We know that there is a very difficult economic situation in the country. That people don't have a pension. But these judges will go through and retire even after the old legislation conforms to 90 percent of government wages. And this is order 20, 30, 40,000 dollars. That's why I have an offer. Accept the happiness package to compare them and put them on the ground a little bit. And then we set them free! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u450	Thank you. Deputies of the people of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u451	Dear colleagues! This issue is roughly the same in terms of the additional payments that the judge, who resigns on his own application, has already been raised by the previous parliamentary call. And that's why they couldn't, they couldn't get rid of those judges. And today the state has lost under 100 million dollars at the time they are in office but do not exercise justice. Because they're retired for that. And they have no such right under the law. In answer to your question, the committee appealed to the State Judicial Administration for clarification and received an answer. That since it was adopted on December 11, 2014, no, it was a letter, the Law on Preventing a Financial Disaster and Creating Prematures for Economic Growth in Ukraine was passed. Article 136 of this Act has been amended by this Act under Article 136 of the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. And so the article on the payout was ruled out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u452	Thank you for your comment. Please, the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knazevitch, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u453	Thank you, Mr. Head, for allowing the committee head to express his position as well. Dear colleagues, including from the Peter Prashenka Block, I would still be very correct in such a statement, because just what has moved us to take immediate decisions today on the release of these judges means that we do not want to carry the debts that hang from the point of view of not releasing these judges. It's already about 100 million, and if we continue to postpone it, believe me, it has a very serious impact in geometric progress on the corresponding budget spending. No amount will be paid to these judges during their release after the adoption of the relevant anti-crisis legislation. The other thing is, if we move this to a new fiscal year, I don't rule out such payments. Hence, if we are not to be suspicious of what our goal is, we need to react quickly enough today. And, God forbid, you don't have to carry that debt back to next year. Because no one understands us anymore, we're looking for crumbs and crumbs to satisfy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u454	Let me finish with the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u455	the need for a budget. And here we're talking about tens, hundreds of millions, we're looking for, don't give God, don't give God, don't let God, don't do it today. Hence, respectable colleagues, less discussion, make the necessary decisions quickly and expeditiously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u456	All of it. Come on, colleagues, I'd like to invite the national MPs. It's about not paying people's wages. And if someone has broken the law, we will always be able to respond in a legitimate way. Do I get it right? So I ask, in general, that I put to the vote the draft Decree (registration number 1624) on the release of judges. Order - in general, on the basis and in general, please vote, 1624. Please vote. We're losing hundreds of millions of dollars. 1624 in general, on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[16:18:25]] For 252 Decision taken. You're backing me up. The factions. You see who backed it up. Well, everybody backed up. Let's move on, dear fellows. We have many, many questions. Decision 1352, the registration project, the registration number of the draft Decision implementing the judgment of the European Court of Justice. Head of the Committee on Legal Policy Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please. Short-term.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u457	Short-term.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u458	After a reduced procedure, we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u459	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I will not be able to tell the whole story for a long time, because I think the vast majority of people in the session room are well aware of this situation. The only thing I can say is that according to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, which was adopted in February 2013 and took effect at the end of May 2013, Ukraine is obliged to reinstate as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Alexander Volkova, since the European Court of Human Rights has established a violation by the State of Ukraine of the European Convention. Since it is in accordance with the Constitution that Parliament itself has clearly recognized those who have allowed the violation of this convention, since it is in the High Council's session hall that the relevant decision has been taken, it is absolutely symbolic that the new Parliament will take such a well-known decision and, as for me, an absolute landmark decision not only for Ukraine but for all of Europe by re-establishing the Supreme Court of Alexander Volkova. Moreover, the question was discussed several times in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Assembly, but unfortunately, there were always few votes missing. I very much hope that given the special situation surrounding this issue, there will be no political preconditions here in the session room to not vote in favour of this decision, which provides the opportunity, indeed. To speak of Ukraine taking responsibility not only in formal terms but also in adopting the relevant laws on the implementation and decision of the European Court of Human Rights, but rather starting with the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. With this in mind, Mr. Head, I ask you to consider this question, which is being prepared by all members of the committee, without exception, which are representatives of various factions and non-fractional. I very much hope that everyone will make the same unanimous decision today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u460	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. I'm asking you to come into the auditorium. We're going to put this on the basis and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1352) a draft decision implementing the European Court of Human Rights decision. Please vote, Your Honor, 1352 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general, on the basis and in general. [[16:21:51]] For 257 Decision taken. Well, there's a court order. Dear colleagues, a bill (registration No. 1125) to amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 (registration of government debt), Deputy Finance Minister Lisovenko will report. Please miss the deputy minister. When it comes to fulfilling our obligations, government debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u461	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, your view is proposed to amend the Law on Budgets for the current year, which unfortunately reflects the reality that our expenditure on government debt, which is denominated in foreign currency, has increased as a result of the exchange rate change. So so that the country doesn't go bankrupt and there's no bad word for default, right? We propose not changing the balance of the state budget and reducing the expenditure on the corresponding amount of coal subsidies in an uncontrolled area to essentially increase the cost of government debt arising from the exchange rate change and to reduce by an appropriate amount the State support to the coal industry. Thank you. This will not disrupt the balance of the state budget for the current year, but it will help us to get out of a difficult situation and be worthy of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u462	Thank you, thank you, reporter. Dear colleagues, once again, this is a matter of doing debt. I don't think there's any contradiction here -- first reading on the basis of adopting this bill. We're still working on it, and if there's any work issues, we're just going to work on them and we're going to bring them in. Is there no objection? I'll bet. National deputies, please take your seats, Your Honor. Please take your jobs. On the basis of the first reading. To the second one, you'll work. To the second one, you'll work. Based on the base. Based on the base. I'm asking you, dear fellows. Based on the first reading, the registration number of Project 1125, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law. There's a proposition for the whole as well. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there no objection to the basis in general? Well, that's it. No, it's the government's debt, it's where they all go. Just do them by the end of the year, as I understand it. Head of the subcommittee, right? In view of the committee’s decision, it was also based on the whole. That's how we vote, dear colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd bet on the committee's proposal, on the basis and in general. Please vote, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. Project registration number 1125, based on the committee's proposal. On the basis and in general. [[16:25:30.]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. A lot of good things we've done with you today. Next draft of the Law. 1610 Ukrainian law on the moratorium on the acquisition of property by Ukrainian citizens. There's no such thing. 1072- "For the State Service". That's right. On State Service, Draft Amendment Act (repealing validity) The State Service Act is an important issue and needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u463	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Before you consider it, a bill is proposed to postpone the entry into force of the Ukrainian State Service Act. Since January 1, 2015, a new edition of the Law on State Service has become effective. According to which additional public budget expenditure for the implementation of the Public Service Act will amount to 37 billion dollars in 2015. We're proposing that we cancel the validity of this law because we think that when we're looking at bills today, where we're told to eliminate all social payments. At the same time, it is proposed that the law be in force, where an additional 37 billion dollars of expenses are added to the public service. We don't think it's at the right time. We understand the need to increase the social security of salaries for government officials and so forth. But we believe that this should be done, not by increasing the expenditure of the state budget, but by taking into account the expenditure that is now in the public service. Reduce the number of civil servants, optimize the functions and powers of the public service, and the cost of reducing the number of civil servants can be set aside, including to raise salaries for civil servants. Please support this bill and postpone the entry into force of the Law on State Service. Thank you for your attention. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u464	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is the head of the subcommittee, there is a need to report? There is a need to speak, Alona Ivanovna Skrum, 30 seconds. And let's put it to a vote now on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u465	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u466	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u467	My colleagues, I'll say very quickly, the committee, indeed, at its meeting on December 22, supported the adoption of this bill as a basis and in general for another reason that was not mentioned by Mr. Deputy Lášk. As you know, in the Coalition Agreement, we have indicated that we are to adopt with you a new draft of a new bill developed with European experts and public non-governmental organizations this year. Well, we're not going to make it this year, unfortunately, but the committee is confident that we'll accept it in January, literally, as stated in the government programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u468	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u469	January of the following year. And that's why we don't have to create a coalition. We really need to cancel that new editorial that was. Which was supposed to come into effect automatically. That is why the committee supports it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u470	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis and the whole of Ukraine's Registration Number Act, draft Act No. 1072, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Service to abolish the validity of the Act. I ask you to vote on the basis and, in general, the honourable colleagues. On the basis and in general. [[16:29:48]] For 266 Decision taken. Thank you. Next, your honor, draft law, registration number 1071, 1071-1, 1071-d, draft law amending. Ukraine's Tax Code on Tax Compromise. The national deputy author is Dudenkov, sold by Oksana Petrovna, and still head of the committee. Please, People's Deputies. It's all right. The People's Deputy of Doubenkov, then the sale of Oksana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u471	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, a respected society, I have registered a bill on the application of the Institute of Tax Compromise as a response to the editorial proposed by the current government, the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of this year, because a completely opaque procedure has been created that has created corruption risks. My bill is simple enough, and it's distributed to unagreed tax liabilities for income tax and value added tax, which are accepted by the tax authority's supervisory authority for administrative prosecution. The procedure is simple enough, an application is made for the purpose of tax compromise and accordingly taxpayers pay the amount of tax liability understated, according to the controlling authority, up to 5 percent. I want to point out that when we discuss my bill and my bill, which is an alternative, registered by colleagues, members of the coalition, we agree that the specified proposal, which was proposed by the opposition block faction, which really eliminates all corruption, will be included. So given the above, we propose to support the bill (1071-d), which included, in particular, the position that I proposed in (1071) as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u472	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Oksana Prodan, then Roman Nasirov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u473	Dear colleagues, the Tax Compromise Bill that you are currently considering, which I hope we are voting today, worked with business, along with the government, and is addressing completely all the issues that we wanted to resolve from the very beginning. I want to remind you that the tax compromise project of its own time was introduced by the government. Unfortunately, in the past call, we have not been able to overcome the corruption component that did not give its vote in the previous seventh call for a business that forced the previous regime to pay through tax schemes and not pay them to the state budget to allow this business to be legalized today. Today, thousands of businesses hang and depend on the Tax Inspectorate, on the tax police, on what they find, on what they're going to do, on what they're going to do, on what they're going to do, and on what they're going to do, and on what they're going to do, and on what they're going to do, and on what they're going to do, they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, and they're going to do, Therefore, we suggest that anyone who considers it necessary to declare himself voluntarily or who has disputes in court or who has an administrative complaint be allowed to apply to the Tax Office for tax compromise, pay 5 percent of the amounts and be free from past sins created by the prior regime of Yanukovic. I am very much asking everyone to support the parliamentary bill that we have elaborated on the committee in order to endorse it today as a basis and as a whole, so that by the end of the year, the President will have the opportunity to sign it and people will have the opportunity to use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u474	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Roman Nasirov. There's a position and a government, you'll hear it. I'll give the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u475	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, allow me to allow the position of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Tax Compromise (Nos. 1071 and No. 1071-1). To avoid wasting time, focus on the amended bill (registration number 1071-D). The amended bill is intended in general to establish a dialogue between the State and tax payers, exempt taxpayers from financial, criminal and administrative liability under conditions of payment of undeclared and/or non-agreed charges on the added value and income of enterprises, reduce administrative complaints to the supervisory authorities and appeal to the court of tax payers for the decisions of the supervisory authorities, and provide additional tax revenue to the budget. The legislative proposals are implemented through the addition of Section XX "Transitional clauses" to a new unit, which provides: the payment by taxpayers of taxes on a voluntary basis of a detailed tax settlement for the income of enterprises and/or the value added tax for any tax periods before 1 April 2014 and the payment by the taxpayer of taxes on the application of the tax compromise procedure of 5 per cent of the amount declared or determined in the tax notice of the decision of the tax liability. Taking into account the relevance of the above-mentioned issue and taking into account the above, the Committee decided to withdraw its conclusion on Bills 1071 and 1071-1 and to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law under the heading 1071-d. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the amended bill as a basis and as a whole as the Law of Ukraine. Please support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u476	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Victor Halasyuk. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u477	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the "Radical Party" faction supports the adoption of this bill. It's very important to a small, medium-sized business. Why? Because, first of all, it reduces tax pressure on entrepreneurs, because it's not just the taxes that are being paid, it's the administration. We have to do everything we can to eliminate bureaucracy and eradicate corruption. It's one of the real tools to do that. Moreover, it is envisioned by the Coalition Agreement. It is also very important that, thanks to such mechanisms as tax compromise, pretrial mediation will relieve us of the pressure on Ukraine’s judicial system, which is now extremely high. Thus, business will be able to work legally and pay taxes legally. And as we made in the tax agreement, if the amount of tax debt is voluntarily recognised, no fines are paid, only a penny is paid. So we propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u478	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is still the position of the Ministry of Finance. Please, Minister of Finance, Mrs. Natala Jaresko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u479	The entire Ministry of Finance supports the project for all the reasons described. But we ask only for the first reading so that we can discuss it one more time. I understand you've discussed this, but with the new minister, the bet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u480	I see. So there's 5 percent, and the government has proposed 15 percent. I mean, please, People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u481	Vladimir Borisovich, thank you for the opportunity to speak. Peter Dustenk's Block, Snotlout. I mean, nobody wants to pay extra. What's more, we're going to have to count the costs of this year that we're living here, but here, Oxana Prodan, our colleague, has really been properly justified and found such a compromise. When 5 percent today is absolutely, well, I'd say so, the moderate amount and the percentage that makes it possible to honestly account for entrepreneurs and all businesses, to fill out the budget and at the same time remove the problem that this year and the coming years don't allow such things. That's why we also support, and I personally support, the Oxana Prodan bill, and I ask all my colleagues to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u482	Please, Alexander Kugel. 30 seconds. Next, Yuri Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u483	Dear National Deputies! Dear Mrs. Natale, as minister. Can you hear us, please? We've got a year of history, as we wanted, we've put in the "hotels" of the Ministry of Finance, and they've never had any support. Today's bill, ours in co-authorship with Oxana Sales and honourable deputies, is the only compromise that can remove today's conflict situation left by the old authorities. Unfortunately, if we do not accept it as a whole, so that all MPs understand, tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u484	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u485	. It's not in the budget, it's in its pocket. The proposal to vote on the law as a whole. Let's get things going, and then let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u486	We've got only one. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u487	Please hand over Michael Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u488	Respectable Society! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to say that we have to be very careful because the conduct of tax compromise will still partially trigger such a mine of slow action for the future. All companies, companies will know that they can avoid paying taxes, they will be able to avoid that, and they know that after paying tax compromises, they're 5 percent small and they'll be exempt from any tax burden. So we're setting a precedent that in the future it's not about small, medium-sized business, it's about big business and oligarchs that are going to avoid tax payments, and we're going to see that it's not coming to the budget in the end, and it's going to create such a minus of slow action. I would still urge that we be careful with the adoption of this law and send it out for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u489	Dear friends, I understand. We're going to vote now. Look. 5 percent is proposed by the bill prepared by Mrs. Oksana. I'll take my word for it. The Ministry of Finance has established a standard 15. We've consulted here, and I'm sure we need to find a golden middle ground so we don't lose opportunities, including budget filling. Oh, no? [[Noise Nodes]] Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u490	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear colleagues! And this 15th Hall has already voted, and this 10th Hall has voted. This project is not going through. Because math in the economy doesn't consist of these numbers. 5 percent of us have the opportunity to conduct, legalize business is the first. Secondly, the date of receipt of the budget, and thirdly, the elimination of the corruption schemes that today are in the Tax Police. I want to speak to Mr. Michael now. [[Applause]] Mr. Mikhailo Golovko, there is no warning that you have just said in this bill because it is repeated. It is now allowing business to legalize those operations in which Janukovic's business regime was once launched. Once we're able to apply for 90 days and pay off the business costs. I very much ask everyone to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u491	Thank you. I put to the vote Bill 1071-d on the committee's proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole. Please make up your mind about the vote, the honourable national MPs. On the basis and in general. 1071-d. [[16:43:16]] For 264 [[Applause]] Decision Adopted We hope that tax compromise has been found. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. On the basis and generally accepted. We have Bill 1610, which we put into the agenda this morning. And based on the fact that we continued the morning session, we can't put it into the agenda at that time, and put it to a vote according to the regulations. Then I propose to include him in the next plenary. Then we won't break, on Saturday. Then we will not violate his procedure. The law is very important. I think we're going to vote it out. And we support people, they can no longer stand. We support them. I think there's a lot of support for the hall today, what I hear, but without violating the debate. If the Supreme Council makes a decision, what decision? I stress that today we have made this decision in order of the day. The article in the Rules says the following. Ad hoc may be adopted if the Law on the Rules is not approved. Please, what will be your thoughts? Let's hear from the factions. People's Front, Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u492	Mr. Head, first of all, I would like to point out that the law is extremely important. People have been waiting for him for more than a day. The confidence that tomorrow the course will be as it is today is not in the people or in the national MPs. Therefore, there is a huge request to initiate the ad hoc procedure provided for by the applicable Law on the Ukrainian Rules of the Supreme Council. And now to vote for this bill, which is extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u493	What are some other suggestions? Yuri Lucenko, please, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u494	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Our faction also supports the adoption in the first reading of this bill, which is intended to calm people, to show that Parliament is going to address not only the big economy but also the particular group of people. We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u495	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Oleg Beresuk. I see that. Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u496	Self-help faction. We must vote and vote today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u497	The drafter also supports the same proposal, as I understand it. Fatherland, Fatherland faction, please. Yvchenko, 30 seconds. You support it, you don't support it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u498	Dear colleagues, you recently remember the rally. So when we went out to the people, they gave a direct phone call and they said that people were being evicted in Cosatín, people were being evicted in another city, people were being evicted in Barovara. We think this bill is very important, and today it needs to be accepted and told to everyone, in general, that we forbid people being evicted from housing. Today, we forbid acting according to the executive inscription. People have to be sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u499	Thank you. The position is almost unanimous. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u500	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! We do not have any regulatory obstacles to considering this bill. We put him in the morning session. We were just working around the clock today, but we're having an evening meeting. And this bill needs to be adopted in order not to play, on a basis, to take it as a foundation and as a whole. Let us demonstrate in practice our unanimity on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u501	I don't want to argue about the Rules, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I did not close the morning session, but I continued his work. And the bill included was in the morning session. That's why I think it is. On the basis of that, we shall now vote. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u502	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I think that millions of Ukrainian citizens who have taken foreign exchange loans and cannot repay them are, in fact, the same as you have closed or opened them. They need it to be a result, and they're waiting for that result, and when we're sitting here with you, it would seem, in a comfortable room, it's actually a very difficult situation, because in a new year people are going in and they're going to be deprived of housing for not being able to pay 20 dollars for a dollar that they once took 5 dollars for a dollar that they once took 5 dollars for a dollar. So I'm addressing all the national MPs, the good people, the respectable colleagues, let's get into these people's situation, let's vote for the bill, ban on evicting families with children and families in general for those who can't return currency loans and finally adopt a law that will make it possible to settle this problem. It's an ear problem, it doesn't allow people to live peacefully, they don't have confidence in tomorrow, they're nervous and they don't see a perspective. Let's give it to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u503	I don't think it was very important for the people's deputies to tell you right now, because I understand there's a lot of willingness in the room to vote. And I'm going to put it to a vote now, because all the factions have spoken for the pro position, including the Presidium. And now we're based on the first reading, based on the second reading on Saturday is going to be the whole. Leonid Jemetz, he is also the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u504	Dear colleagues, there is a request to include a right now to vote on these rights as a basis, because they touch on other articles, namely articles of the Civil Code and are necessary for this law to act. If you don't mind, I'll put them under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u505	Please, come in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u506	There is a request for amendments, to supplement the law with such amendments, to amend the laws of Ukraine: article 18 of the Ukrainian Civil Code should be added to part two of the following content: "Notarius is forbidden to make executive inscriptions on the application of housing." The other one. Part three of article 33 of Ukraine's Mortgage Act after the words "the executive notary's notary should be supplemented by the words "the coma," except for the call for housing. Third. Article 88 of the Ukrainian Act on Notariat, to supplement part three of the article of this content, "notaries are not allowed to make executive records of recourse, housing. " And also add "The End Positions" in which you write that legislative and other legal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u507	Dear colleagues, I can see there are different points on this point. I suggest that the next thing you do, based on the first reading, is by a reduced procedure prepare for the second reading on Saturday. And offers on Saturday. And a cut-off on Saturday. And to process the regulations of the Yemeni while preparing for the second reading. And that's all, and that's going to be a completely compromising decision. I'm betting on the vote what I just said, and I'm asking everyone to support this draft decision, the draft decree amending the law under number 1610 in the first reading on the basis of the brief preparation for the second reading on Saturday, and the drafting of Leonid's second reading. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:52:21]] For 269 You see what a nice offer this is. 269 Decision adopted. We work together, find understanding, and work on it. Yes, dear colleagues, I do. Concentrate, please. Focus, please, on your respectable colleagues. There's a proposition that's prepared by factions. I'd like to sound it now. In particular, the next proposal is made to ensure that the 2015 State budget is adopted. Attention, colleagues. To the National Deputies to submit proposals to the Committees for adoption on the basis of draft legislation relating to the budget by 13 a.m. Friday, December 26. On Friday, national deputies work on committees. The committee responsible should prepare these bills for consideration on the second reading by Saturday, December 27. And on December 27, start the plenary work on Saturday at 14 p.m. to consider drafts related to the adoption of the 2015 budget. And then move on to the 2015 State Budget review and work until it's finished. That was the offer. So I want to put it on now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute! I want to put this proposal to a vote, including that we work on committees tomorrow. Since Saturday’s second hour, we will start a plenary session and work hard, as it takes to complete the consideration of all matters. I'll put it to a vote. Sunday, too. Sunday, too. I'll put it to a vote. Guys, hold on, please. Please support this proposal. Victor Pinzenic. Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u508	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich! We want to vote on laws that affect the budget and the budget itself, but laws that deal with tax and expenditure rules may be clarified and unvoted. How do you think you can technically prepare an unsimply document if you just got out of the car laws that have something to do with the budget? There is a need for a break in the technical processing of the Law on Budgets, tables, and so forth. It's impossible to do that in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u509	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two proposals. There's a proposal that I've just announced, and I'm going to put it to the vote. If it's not accepted, I'll put another motion on the vote, and that's it. Right? The first sentence is tomorrow on the committees. On Saturday, from 2 p.m., we start working in plenary and work without interruptions until we agree on all the decisions. I bet. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't think it's Saturday afternoon. I'll put it to a vote. To the vote. Well, let the MPs determine. Well, what are you doing? Here came two factions, made proposals. Don't you put it? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a decision, let's put it to a vote. Please vote. What I announced under the transcript. I'll make any decision you make, dear colleagues. [[16:55:57]] For-183 Decision taken. And Sunday is also voted, and we work on Sunday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u510	What's wrong? Look, we want to work like this, it's wrong. That's not right. Let's comment on the factions for a minute. Peter Dustenka's Block, please comment. I didn't touch Sunday, we're working on Sunday, just like we made the last decision. What are you talking about? Please, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u511	Dear Sir, your head! Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that in some parts of Ukraine, Christ was born today! Let us not stretch the work out, and on Saturday we shall proceed to the vote in the second reading of the documents adopted today. And then, if everything's okay and we don't mess up the tax base, we're going to go to the state budget vote. Our faction is ready to work in this mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u512	Thank you. People's Front, please, Ivanchuk A.V.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u513	Dear Mr. Head! The People's Front faction supported your proposal and voted in full on Saturday at 10 a.m. to start adopting government laws on the second reading, Saturday. Once again, we will support the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u514	Got it. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u515	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." The Radical Party faction supports the Supreme Council's proposal to work on Saturdays and Sundays, and continuously, as long as it takes to adopt the budget and all budget-related laws. We support it. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u516	Thank you. Please, Ivan Kirilenko, Fatherland. Then self-help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u517	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, honourable colleagues, you and I have already made a decision that we are constantly working, but, look what is happening in this room: there is a bill that changes the forty laws, there is a second one that is being introduced -- 66 laws, how many amendments are now going to be made to these laws? Who should work? Committees. So we suggest that we do not change anything. We're working on committees tomorrow, after tomorrow, on Sunday, and we're starting to vote. [[Applause]] But let's vote a little bit!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u518	Guys, let's give it a round of applause, because I only understand what I'm going to put to the vote. Please, Oleg Berezuk. Don't argue!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u519	Dear colleagues, we support the day and night work and the weekend. But we're asking you to go into legislation, to make the amendments by Saturday, 12 o'clock. The Anti-Corruption Committee has yet to process them all and look at them, and work on the laws already in the session hall, starting on Sunday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u520	All right, thank you, dear colleagues. I'll be back in line for the second-hour plenary meeting on Saturday. I'll bet you a vote. Colleagues, please identify the faction leaders. I'll make an offer to make a meeting, a plenary meeting Saturday at 2 p.m. Friday is committee work. It won't work. I'll put another one in. Well, what are you doing? Please, I'd like to vote on the proposal of the People's Front. Be determined by vote, colleagues. [[17:00:14]] For-173 The decision is not taken. Another decision has already been made. That means we're working with you at 10:00 a.m. Sunday. Tomorrow and tomorrow we're working on the committees. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I'll give you a call. Look. Yes, the National Deputies make proposals to the Committees before the adoption of the law. On the basis of the bills related to the budget, by 13 a.m. Saturdays, tomorrow we work Friday, on the committees to do everything we can. Appropriately, committees prepare marked bills to be considered on Sunday, and we will begin consideration at 10 a.m. The second position, the mandate of the Supreme Council apparatus, to make the necessary changes to our 2015 Budget Regulations and budget related bills. I think let's re-vote this position that I've heard about filing rights. The committee's on Friday. Yes, please, come back. Are we focused?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u521	We're working on committees tomorrow. Saturday through 13 a.m. we're making proposals, Sunday at 10 a.m. we're starting a meeting, a plenary session in the second reading of the bill. That's what everybody does, that's what was said. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote, colleagues. There is more to the point of supporting proposals. Please vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote. We vote in favour, otherwise. We vote in favour. [[17:02:04]] For-189 All right, thank you, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the last decision. I'll put the vote again, once again, colleagues, back to your seats. We're working on committees tomorrow. Is that understood or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-25-m0.u522	Are we going to support all of this? That we don't vote? I'll put it to the vote again, we'll stand for it. Please vote. "For," tomorrow we work on the committees, I ask you all to support. Please, Your Honor. Sunday’s plenary session is equally supportive. People's Front, vote. [[17:02:51]] For-189 There's still the calendar plan that was there. Thank you, Your Honor. My friends, I would like you to work on the committees tomorrow. And I'm just talking about Friday. Support: Committee work on Friday. All of it. Please! Let us vote on Friday in the committees. Again. People's Front, I understand he's voting. Friday's on the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate the fact that we are working on committees tomorrow. Right? Right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's make a concerted offer, one more time: Friday, we work on the committees. Right? So that we can pass the bill on Saturday. So I'm going to put to the vote the Friday issue that we work on committees. Right? Friday on the Committees? Please vote: Friday is on the committees. Who's in favour, please vote. On Friday, the committees will be ready by Saturday afternoon. Vote. Vote! Friday! [[17:05:33]] For 228 We work on committees on Friday. Roger that. Now the second offer. On Saturday and Sunday, there are decisions. All right, we'll get together if we have to. I can do that. We'll hold consultations with factions, we'll make decisions. That's it, thank you. We're working on committees tomorrow. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thanks for the job.
