ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to take your seats in the session room so that we can start our work with you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm asking you to prepare for the registration of the National Deputies. Please turn on the "Council" system and ask the deputies to register. [[10:06:03]] 348 national deputies present in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that you and I have approved a list of committees, governing bodies, and in fact, from this day forward, the Ukrainian Parliament has started its work. An effective start to our work is extremely important because without the creation of working bodies, the Ukrainian Parliament would not be able to start its work. And I think we're all here to adopt the laws that the state needs to make, the decisions that will ensure that reforms are carried out in a country that waits for more than a year. Accordingly, yesterday I held the first meeting of the Conciliation Council, where we considered a number of issues that are extremely important. Since we have today December 9, we realize that there is not much time left until the end of the calendar year. And that means that you and I need the maximum organisational capacity to make the first and most important decisions, such as adopting the country's 2015 budget, not on an old basis, but on a new decentralized basis, which will allow for adequate funding for the country's territorial communities and start a real process of decentralization of power. We need to consider this week and approve the Government's Programme of Action, which will be prepared and considered. We need to do everything we can to ensure that the decisions that are to be made in the committees and which are to be made in December are made in the session room. We understand that any decision that will be made in the Chamber in accordance with the legislation should be considered in advance by the Committees. And it's very important that we set up committee work today in such a way that we can form a quality agenda for the plenary sessions of the session and make agreed decisions. I've already assigned committees to start their regular work. And I want to urge all of you to do as much as possible, literally, if necessary, work on the committees all day long, and work on the bills that we're going to be discussing in the hall. Once again, I would like to stress the importance of following the personal voting procedure. And I'd like to ask the faction leaders to continually emphasize and adhere to this standard. Only personal voting, personal responsibility, can guarantee the quality of decision making. And this is extremely important, and I would like to take that into account. Before we start our work, I'd like to join you in welcoming our colleagues' birthday. Today is Helen Valerievna Kolganova's birthday. Let's welcome her. [[Applause]] And we welcome Taras Zinovovich Jurik with our birthday and wish for all the good things on earth. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, given the tense schedule we have by the end of the year. And given that we're starting work today on the day of the fight against corruption, I think we all need to think about what decisions we need to make in order to make this disgraceful phenomenon that is in our society, which is destroying a perfectly normal life of people, disappear and be burned by the iron. But this can only be done if decisions are made in the Ukrainian Parliament on the real laws that will ensure both the fight against corruption and the creation of normal conditions so that corruption does not arise. Corruption and bribery, which now eats up our entire country from the inside. So this puts additional tasks on the Ukrainian Parliament, which are extremely important. I'd also like to make a few announcements, dear colleagues. And after that, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will give the floor and the opportunity to write, for the intervention of MP factions and groups. Dear colleagues, announcements. In accordance with article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I am reporting the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Makarian David Borisovich, as part of the MP's "Block of Peter Prashenko" party in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. [[Applause]] Next. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Interfractional Union of the Bukovina. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Petrovna Sold, was elected head of the Interfractional Union of the Bukovina. [[Applause]] According to this statement, I'm reporting the entry of National Deputy Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna into the coalition of European Ukraine's European factions in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of Afghan Veterans and participants in other future combat activities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy Kunicin of Ukraine, Sergio Volodymyrovich, was elected head of the association. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Interfractional Union for the Digital Future of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the United Nations elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Bilkovo Olga Valentinovna and Danchenka Alexander Ivanovich. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report on the creation of the eighth inter-fractional "Involvement and Protection of Investments" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Cratzer-Buchkovska Natalija Volodymyrovna, was elected head of the association. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association for the construction of the National Children's Hospital "Ohmatdit" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Karchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna, was elected head of the association. [[Applause]] I think that all the national MPs will be involved in this union, and I am deeply convinced of this. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of an interfractional parliamentary association "Equal Opportunities". The headquarters of the union are the national deputies of Ukraine: Jon’s Maria Mikolayovna, Condratjuk Olena Konstantinovna, and Greenwich’s Lilia Mikhaylovna. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! On December 8, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian national deputy elected for the October 26, 2014, election of the Romanian Alexander Volodymyrovich, who was included in the election list of the National Front political party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich, is invited to make an oath to the romanovské.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Deputies! I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine, Romanovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u3	We welcome you and wish you success at an important job. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of authorized factions and groups. If you would like to register with the factions and groups, we have 30 minutes to sign up, so please sign up. Please record done, I invite you to the word Oleg Valeriovich Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich! You just announced that we voted for the Supreme Council Order on the distribution of committees, so let's get to work. No, we don't agree with you. We agree to work, but first, the Radical Party faction did not vote in favour of the Committees' Distribution Order for one reason: 16 people, regional deputies, who voted in favour of the bloody dictatorships on January 16th, elected to leadership positions. We're asking you, as the Head of the Supreme Council, to draft a bill that we registered yesterday (1291) from yesterday's number, which we propose to release from all the governing positions on the committees of the regional deputies who voted in favour of the dictatorships on January 16th. And don't pretend like nothing's going on, and don't pretend like we're going to forget about it. [[Congrats]] Those who killed our brothers in Maidan were killed by the Yanukovich gang because they supported this gang in Parliament because they voted in favour of dictatorial laws. Because these laws of January 16 have led to the bloodshed of Gruszewski, the bloodshed of the Institute. And you sit there with a happy face and you say, "Dear friends, let's work." Who are you working with? With wolves who are supposed to be in prison? With those who shed blood, who is involved in the bloodshed? That's why the Radical Party faction is blocking the parliamentary rostrum with a requirement, and we ask our colleagues to support us by demanding that this order be repealed in part of the appointment of the regions involved in the January 16 vote. [[Congrats]] And as for events in Winnitz, I would like to say. It's a power call, it's the President's call, it's a call for all of us. That's what happens when you blend in with the regionals! That's what happens when there's no real change when there's no change in the system of power, when all the regions don't get out of power. Today, in Winnitz, the authorities are making arrangements with the regionals. Regional Deputy Kuzmenko in Kirovgrad is sitting, the regions continue to run throughout the country, because the authorities are negotiating with them because the authorities are pretending that the people have forgotten about this gang. No, I didn't! So you don't want to rebel, you don't want to rebel, you want to marry regionals, you need to change power, you need to change the country, you need to change it. Do not be silent, sit down, and be content with what is. [[Congrats]] Therefore, we need to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u5	Thank you. Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. That's what you told me yesterday. And I told you we'd put her to the vote, the MPs would be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u6	[[From the Hall]] When do you set it up?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u7	What about the speech, I'd say the next thing. When the National Deputies made their proposals for the People’s Deputies on January 16, none of those present in the Hall of the Preparatory Working Group named any last name in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u8	He did not name any names that should be excluded from the governing board. All the committee heads have. All the committee heads are known absolutely, and I understand that there are no questions before them on January 16th. So I think it's perfectly normal when the day's decree and the people's deputies are put in order now will be considered. I think it's completely objective. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's finish the factions and move on to the vote on Oleg Valery Lacha.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u9	Give me your word that you'll include her in the agenda. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u10	Well, I told you, we'll put it in order. [[B in m in s a l in]] Indeed! In the daytime order, of course, we will consider. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will put in order a day's decree that has just been announced for inclusion in the agenda for the vote. And I will personally vote. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, please, Self-Help, Berezuk Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u11	I'm sorry, I'd like to ask the administration of our Parliament to resolve this issue and then to move on to other issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u12	Thank you. Next up is Peter Dustenka's Block, Jurinec. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko It's Jurinec. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u13	And he wouldn't let me tell you! I give the word Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u14	Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u15	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Peter Poroshenko's Block wants to point out that we are starting a job, a full-fledged work of the Ukrainian Parliament in an unprecedented internal and external crisis. The internal challenges of corruption, oligarchy, and the deepest economic downturn have to be addressed in the context of the undeclared aggression of the Russian Federation. Only the heroism of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Nachwardia, volunteers, and volunteers made it impossible for the adventurous plan of terrorists and their Kremlin owners to take Ukraine by armed means. Neo - imperialists then make a bet on preparing an internal disorganization of the Ukrainian state. We have recently seen that deadly ceasing separatism, which has led to the disaster of a third of Ukrainian Donbas, is beginning to sow in other areas. In this connection, the Peter Dustenk Faction Block requires that the security services cut back on anti-State elements and spies and the Fifth Column of the Kremlin. And we also demand that the vachanal of anti-Ukrainian separatism be stopped in certain media media that are being reconciled from abroad and freely distributed in Ukraine by millions of dollars. We also believe that the Ukrainian Parliament should take a decisive step, namely, to begin the process of amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The new Constitution itself can be the end of the revolution, a new social treaty has to create a new Ukrainian order, where there will be no place of separatism, oligarchy, corruption and opposition to branches of government. We think it is the Supreme Council that should take such a step in this current year 2014. A few words about the situation with regard to the leadership of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, the position of the Peter Prashenko Block has been understood: Parliament has to work. That's why in the last plenary session we voted in favour of starting committee work. Clearly, in society and in a number of our colleagues there are questions to be asked about the composition of the directors of these committees. I want to say that the Rules answer the question of how to make changes. The Rules of Procedure Act provides that any changes in the direction, members, subjects of religion must be passed through the Regulatory Committee. We support the position of colleagues who will make the appropriate submission to the Rules of Procedure together. [[Congrats]] together with the appointment of two representatives of the Radical Party to two vacant posts of the Committee on Construction and the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u16	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. Alexander's next Volodymyr Kugel. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u17	Sobolje, Fatherland. First. Well, we don't have such a busy schedule for today. I would like to support the radical faction's proposal -- and today, if a regulatory committee is to be put together to do that, it's not difficult to do that, just to analyze the transcript of the statements when the Committee's ruling was approved, where, including my statement that the persons who voted in favour of the January 16 laws could not be in committee leadership. And what's more, it's going to enable people to wish that we should reduce the number of board positions, because we're going to have no one to draft legislation, and we're going to have everybody in management. Our faction's proposal, "Paternity": based on the reduction of these positions, it's the committee that is to be assembled. Secondly, it is very important for us to consider today the question -- this is Bill 1099 -- which will make it impossible to vote in a non-personal parliament. We are disgusted to hear, every day, that someone is voting for someone. These persons should be deprived of the right to vote for five days. Both those who passed their cards and those who voted for them. Third. Our faction began a collection of signatures for overturning the feudal inviolability of national MPs and judges. We ask our colleagues in Parliament to do and continue this work so that we can, by collecting 150 signatures, start with the reform of the Constitution, including the reform of parliamentaryism. We think it's an urgent question. It's about Winnie. Our proposal is that, at the end of today's session, we gather the Coalition Council and not allow the establishment in the district, city councils and the return to these councils of the old representatives of the Party of Regions that formed the Anti-Maidans, who beat people in all regions of Ukraine, not just in Kiev. And I think the Coalition Council could decide to create appropriate coalitions in places where it would not be possible for them to be members of the Party of the Regions. And the last. We are very grateful that two questions have been asked today. It's about off-block status. Our faction will support any option that will allow the country to get out of the gray zone and become a country that will have both the perspective of European integration and the perspective of Euro-Atlantic integration. And the last question today is that of asking the official bodies of the Russian Federation (we support it, we initiated it) to release political prisoners who are in prison in the Russian Federation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u18	Thank you. Please, Your Honor. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u19	Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Given the difficult economic situation in the country, the opposition bloc will insist on the adoption of several laws aimed at social support for our people. First of all, it is the restoration of social benefits, the adjustment of pensions due to the fall of the national currency, and the protection of low - budget levels of the population from rising tariffs. Realizing that all these bills are resourceful, it is logical for us to provide a source of budget filling for these bills to be implemented. And the budget was complete. We see the source of the 2-way budget. First of all, Vladimir Borisovich, I am addressing you, just as you have declared the Day of Combating Corruption, we suggest we stop the work of tax pits in our country. Today, there are 429 tax pits in the country that have passed more than 20 billion bracelets this year. The largest tax pit is located in Kiev under the roof of the Righteous District State Tax Administration. It's called this tax pit by a science designer called Technology, and this year it's passed through 10 billion 140 million. The second direction is to stop the supply of smuggled petrol to the country that started in April this year through Odessa Customs. In this campaign. They work in this campaign to supply 25,000 tons of gasoline every month. Cynicism is that the legal address of these campaigns is the street of Gruszewski and the Main Strait, the Museum Haul right where the barricades were located during the Maidan period. The schematic works like a clock. Approximately 100 million dollars a month in government budget losses. I ask you, Vladimir Borisovich, to consider my statement an official request to the Attorney General and the relevant documents will be submitted to the Attorney General's office today. And the last. We received a response yesterday from a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we consider the Ministry of Energy's report on the energy market situation a priority for us to have a professional. professional conversation and an expert report on how we're going to be going through the winter, because all these political issues may not be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u20	Thank you. "The People's Front," Schwarluk, and then Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u21	Vladimir Schwarluk, People's Front. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to the deputies at the rostrum. The removal of the governing positions of deputies who voted in favour of the dictatorial laws of January 16th is a political decision and this political decision is justified. The People's Front supports this proposal. [[Applause]] That's why we're proposing, your honorary colleagues, that we sit in our jobs, make our decision day by day. We will immediately vote for inclusion in the agenda. The Regulatory Committee will be able to process it expeditiously so that we can vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Now, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that there is now a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is looking at the government agenda. The main tasks facing this program are, of course, to overcome the terrible crisis that is in the country and to free our nation from the occupation. I hope that the Supreme Council will support this programme, which we propose to consider on Thursday, where will be the corresponding report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The issue of protecting our country is one of the priorities of both the government program and the tasks involved in our coalition agreement with you. So it's very important, dear colleagues, that today we're starting a plenary week to consider an important issue, namely, non-blocking. It is the solution to this problem that will allow us to ensure the European and Euro-Atlantic integration of our country, to ensure reliable military and technical cooperation with the leading states of the world, and to certainly concentrate resources and opportunities for the liberation of our Fatherland. It's very important, your colleagues, of course, will be for the whole country, this is a matter of fundamental importance -- this is a review of our country's budget. People's Front position. We understand that the budget will be very difficult. We realize that we will have to save in many ways and in many ways. But in principle, it's important to us that in the country's budget, and this is the position of the People's Front, there can't be an economy for the army and the National Guard. [[Applause]] These are the priorities that we are obliged to provide financially in full, the extent to which we need to carry out the tasks that the Ukrainian Armed Forces are facing today. And here I would ask all factions to support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, national deputy Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u24	Dear Ukrainian people, Mr. Head, national deputies! Today, Ukraine is fighting a Russian aggressor. The New Supreme Council has begun its work. We're talking about the distribution of committees or the formation of Kabmin. But the People's Will Group is proposing next week or maybe this week to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council. Let the Supreme Council determine whether it's closed or open, but we need to listen to the Ministry of Defense, the ATO's leadership on what's happening on the front today. I think it would be interesting for us to explain how the rotation of the Ukrainian army is taking place, what material and technical security is provided, and whether the troops are today equipped with warm clothing for the winter period, and what are the prospects for conducting an anti-terror operation in the east. I think that such a meeting should be held in the near future. When the electoral campaign took place, especially the Marjorie MPs, they know very well how difficult the lives of people in the districts and the Ukrainian people are today, and the inflation of almost 100 percent, the goods of first importance were raised twice in price. The group, faction or group "The Will of the People" is proposing in the 2015 budget to change the inflation index that took place during this year to support the Ukrainian people, raise the minimum wage and raise the pension. We believe that, by the way, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine said that within 20 numbers she would accept the 2015 budget. We're already hearing statements today that this budget is going to be too complicated. We also propose that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Minister of Finance meet with the factions and groups of the Supreme Council, discuss the budget so that it will not be introduced on the last day, and in one day we will have to accept it. We need to understand what we're going to vote for and what the budget is going to be, what the expenditure is going to be, and what the revenue of the budget is going to be. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to initiate such meetings with the Ministry, the Minister of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u25	Thank you. Thank you. The speeches, the records are exhausted. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a few questions right now. Questions. Well, non-fractional is usually on Wednesday, and that's not provided by regulations. But I'm one of the speakers, please let me introduce you. You're going to write down one from the non-fractional. One minute, please. Whoever's first gets the word. And we're going to go over the issues. After-faction one minute. Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u27	Please, Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u28	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm talking to the Maydan Party representatives. We should not allow a sluggish rematch of the Party of Regions in Parliament, when 15 representatives voted in favour of January 16th, they could get leadership positions and already have leadership positions on the committees. You can't let that happen. We fully support the Radical Party colleagues in this case. We demand that this issue be put to the vote immediately and that these people be excluded, that is the first question. And secondly, the situation in Winnitz is the same as the result of trying to repaint the last regime in place. And you can't call this completely national protest some kind of separatism. This is bullshit. It is a lie that the elected governor is there. There's a national protest against the rematch of a party of regions. And we need to hear the people. Because that's why we're all sitting here. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a question about the approval of the calendar of our work. We have to vote first. I will then put to the vote to include matters in the agenda, and in particular the decree announced by the national deputy Lazko. After that, we'll form another order of the day, which is defined. Let us vote in general and begin our consideration of these issues in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is this order accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u30	No, it's not. Vladimir Borisovich, we ask to vote the rulings, including ours now. We need to consider the urgent matter. Give us a chance to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u31	That's right. To allow you to work, you need to approve a calendar plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u32	The calendar plan will wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u33	Well, he can't wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u34	Let's get the regionals out of management!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got it. I would like to write to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Pinzenic Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Pavlov Vasilovich, draft Decision on the calendar plan for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Please, Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u36	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar plan for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call prepared and submitted for consideration by the National Deputies and Committee members in accordance with the decision of the Committee of 5 December 2014. During the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft calendar plan is allocated to the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council for 3 weeks; the work of committees, commissions, factions of groups for 2 weeks; the work of national deputies with voters for 1 week; and the "hours of questions to the Government" for 3 hours. The work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call is proposed on January 16, 2015. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree on the basis and as a whole. In addition, the Committee noted that if the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers introduced the draft Law on the State Budget 2015 and the need for its consideration on the day of the week from 15 to 19 December 2014 for committee work, it would propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the provisions of part two of article 19 of the Rules, to decide on a one-time ad hoc change in the weekly working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Also yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, a proposal was made by the Chief of the Supreme Council, which was supported by most of the factions of the Supreme Council, to hold a morning plenary meeting today, Tuesday, 9 p.m. In the afternoon work in committees, factions, commissions, groups. Tomorrow work on committees, factions, commissions, groups and continue in plenary mode on Thursday. Please put to the vote the draft Order of 1010, taking into account the changes announced. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u37	Thank you! So let's say, your honors: either we now vote on the calendar plan and then on with the regulation, or now with the determination, and then with the calendar plan. The calendar plan will continue to be voted on in the agenda. Please, Oleg Berezuk, for the reasons of the vote, please proceed with the procedure more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, we cannot ignore the fact that the faction in the coalition is standing near the rostrum. I suggest we put down the vote now, settle this issue, and then work calmly. It's contempt for our coalitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u39	This is about putting the day's decree into order, and then I put it to a vote. What is the number of the decree, where is the decree? Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote Order of the Supreme Council to include in the agenda of the daily session Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 1291. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. We're voting now. 1291 in the agenda of the daily session, for inclusion in the agenda of the agenda of Regulation 1291. Please vote. [[10:44:55]] For 278 For inclusion in the ruling, we voted in the draft order of the day. Now we're going to run, by factions, please, now we're going to run the calendar plan, then we're going to take the basis of the determination. The factions, please. 122 – Petra Poshenko's Block, National Front - 75, Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 26, Radical - 21, Fatherland - 14, Will of the People - 0, Economic Development - 0. Please, Ruslan Knyazevich from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u40	Sir, first of all, I'd like to make it clear to you that we just did. Can I have a minute? A vote was put to the agenda today’s session, not the session’s agenda, because the agenda of the session had not yet been approved. So since there is no document, something to include or remove from it would not be entirely appropriate. That's the first one. The other one. Sir, my fellow Members, I remind you that we must now comply with Article 16 of the Rules and Rule of Order. The sequence of issues that we confirmed at the first session. The next two questions are the calendar plan and agenda of the day session. In order for us to look at anything else right now, we need to make changes to our decision on consistency. On two occasions, the Rules do not allow changes to the issue of consistency, since this issue must be resolved before organizational matters are considered. You just can't go back to him right now. And one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u41	An offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u42	I believe that we should act on the Rules, because we have now included matters in the agenda and we can do so in the first reading of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u44	only at the next session. I understand that ad hoc can move away from this process, but only in case there's a profile committee conclusion. So you don't have to take the time, you have to immediately gather a profile committee that has to conclude, and the session has to move in the direction that it defined in the first session.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u45	Look, fellow Members, we now have a calendar plan that we have to vote on, there are several more regulations that we have to vote on, and after that the committee will start meeting, I'll have him assemble it immediately in accordance with the Rules, make proposals to Parliament to consider the issue that we've just included. Okay? How can I delegate to the MPs during the consideration of the calendar plan so that they do not vote? Look, dear colleagues, what I'm saying is that it will literally occur in 20 minutes, 15-20 minutes, we will now consider three issues of the agenda and there may be a closed session and the committee will continue to work on the committee and the committee will make proposals to Parliament for consideration. What's the problem here? So, Your Honor, I propose that the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules Paul Pinzenik put to the vote now and approve the calendar plan if there is no objection? And there's no objection. Any questions? Please, Levchenko, a national MP. There's a question for the calendar plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom. It's a dangerous subject to approve a calendar plan for us to work. I would like to pay attention, however, to the halls, and I would like to hear the explanations of those who prepared the draft decree, that, in accordance with part one of the first article 18 of the Rules of Procedure, the first and third weeks of each calendar month during the session are allocated to the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council. Well, I don't understand why we don't have our first week of January in a plenary meeting. I take it it's for the MPs to be able to get a good night's rest somewhere abroad? That's right. That's what this is all about. Nevertheless, our proposal is to keep the Rules in place and that the first and third weeks of the month be set aside for plenary sessions instead of giving the deputies a week’s rest in early January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u47	Do you need a comment on this? I don't think that's necessary. But the main thing is that we're not going to announce any vacations, no breaks, we're going to work as long as it takes until the session is over. And this is fundamentally important. I would like to emphasize that the work of the Supreme Council is carried out not only in plenary sessions but also in committee work. Because we're working with you, including in extremely tight terms, and it's a good thing that we made a decision last week to set up committees, which we have to sit down and consider today. That means we'll be working daily without any breaks. And as far as the budget is concerned, in general the budget is concerned, I can inform you about what will work on Sunday. Since the calendar plan is designed in such a way that a full consideration of the matter can be ensured by minimum procedures. That means you have to work on the weekends, and I don't see any harm in it, everyone has to work. So I'm voting now on the basis of the calendar plan as a whole. And let's move on to the question that's going to be faster. Please put to the vote, please vote. [[10:50:35]] For 334 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues, we turn to the issues included in the agenda of the day session. Sessions! We have Decree 1095. Sessions, I'm sorry. Yes, honourable colleagues, in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, should be considered in accordance with all necessary procedures, which means, in committees. Since we are discussing the inclusion of the agenda today, we continue to refer it to the committee, and on the next plenary day, you bring it up to date as a result of the committee's decision to be considered in Parliament. All of it! Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u48	Dear Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, if we are talking about the inclusion in the agenda of the day's session, we should put in place all the bills that are registered today by the members of the Supreme Council on the eighth call. And then all the committees will continue to vote. And those. What we've been given today at the time of our registration is the order of the day today. And we ask you to vote on two questions: that's what's going on in addressing the Russian Federation of All Prisoners, and the Hope of Savichenko, including the issue of off-block status. This is the order of the day today to be considered. Because the committees have already had the opportunity to consider this. And the agenda for the session. Once again, I stress the inclusion of all the bills that have registered the people's deputies of the eighth vocation as a state for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u49	Thank you for your comment. But once again, I emphasize that they will be introduced, these bills, according to committee decisions. These decisions, which we now have in the agenda, cannot be considered because the committees have not taken place. Well, for example, the draft Decree of Reference. The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the State Duma (Decision 1095) and the meeting of the Committee will take place only 12 numbers under consideration of the draft decree. That's why. That's the committee's plan. So now we're including it, and I'm assigning the committees to consider it urgently, and for the next plenary session to put it to a vote. This is the procedure provided for in the Rules. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u50	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Radical Party faction supports the draft ruling under the authorship of Yulia Timoshenko on the release of the Ukrainian pilot and our colleague of the People's Chamber of Hope, Viktorovna Savichenko. But we would like to point out that thousands of other Ukrainian patriots are being held in Russian captivity, especially the stolen head of UNA, Michael Karpuk, who was kidnapped in Crimea by director Oleg Sintsov. And many, many other Ukrainian citizens. [[Applause]] That's why we have to make the request of the Supreme Council to release all Ukrainian citizens who are captured by Russian terrorists and thus draw this to the attention of the international community. And I think that the appeal should be made not only to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, but also perhaps to international law enforcement organizations. Because the wolves in sheep's clothing who are holding our citizens today are clearly unwilling to release them. Our job is to free everyone, to fight for every Ukrainian citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you. That's exactly what the Committees are looking at, where it's possible to make proposals, to make a decision to the Committee and to make a decision for the Supreme Council session. So it's completely objective. Is Please, Igor Green.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u52	Igor Greene, the Peter Dust Block faction. I want to bring us back to the sequence defined in Article 16 of the Rules. I welcome everyone that we have passed all the points in this article, except for one, namely, determining the order of the day session. If we now implement Article 16, we will be free from the obligation to consider the sequence of issues that is fixed, to set the order of the day session, and then all questions can be considered. And now, unfortunately, this is very much like political debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move very consistently, so I suggest we make these decisions. So we voted the verdict just now, and we put it in the order of the day session. We now have order 1095, issued order 1014, 1014-1, 1014-2. We need to include them in the agenda of the day session and start a review of the issues involved in Parliament in accordance with the Rules. So now I'm going to put to the vote on the inclusion of these issues, plus in general, with the resolution that we just voted on (1291). Well, what Oleg Lazko brought. I know she's not here, she's not sold out, but we're gonna turn her on right now. And the Supreme Council's apparatus is going to start printing them, and the committee meeting, I'm going to give them this assignment. So now I'm laying the groundwork, as a whole, with the resolution that we voted on, for inclusion in the agenda of the day's session of issues that are listed. Is there no objection? In general, we vote in general on what has been voted on. Sergey Sobolev. And we'll risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u54	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, I have a request. There are two procedures under the Rules for inclusion in the agenda. There is a direct inclusion in the session as a whole. And our proposal, factions, for everyone to be able to work, is to include all the issues that are registered for today. It's for the entire session until the end of her work. And for this week, if you ask me to include it, because there are no conclusions from the profile committees, and tomorrow the committees will gather, then let's include these questions for this sessional week. And we'll be able to deal with these issues on Thursday with the committee's conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u55	Same thing I said. I mean, we're turning it on right now. Wait a minute! As far as the session is concerned, no committee has formally tabled today, so I understand, Andri Volodymyrovich, no committee has passed any bill. I understand that when the committees are put in, we'll put them to the vote. Please, Turk's Alexander Valentinovich. Then Knjazevich. And we're risking it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the procedure is not very difficult. Let's just vote now. We have to make two votes. We included in the decree proposed by the Radical faction. Now we need to put 1095 into the order of the day, as well as the laws: 1014 (drafts of laws) 1014-1 and 1014-2. These are individual ballots: separate by decree of inclusion in the agenda, separate from the order of the day of these laws. As for the inclusion of all proposals, not just those who have already submitted, there is a possibility yet, I know, that MPs are preparing draft laws. Let's vote on a draft regulation on the approval of the agenda for the session on Thursday. And all factions are obliged to make appropriate proposals by Wednesday at 15 p.m., dot. And let's not do things out of our voice that will then again be incomprehensible, for which we voted. So, excuse me, please, let's take it easy now, no problem, 1,095 is included in the agenda, and we'll also include the draft law on non-locking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u57	It was this proposal that I made. Please, please, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. We've been given a day-to-day project. And here's the "Integrating into the Daytime." For reasons that are completely unclear, the apparatus did not himself write us into what order of the day: or the order of the day session, or the order of today’s meeting? And we need to figure it out today. I think that the order of the day session with all the questions that need to be included should be seriously and carefully worked. It's not a regular session, it's a session of the new Parliament. And according to the Rules of Procedure of the Day Session, all transitional bills that have not been considered in the entire previous session, i.e. the previous composition of Parliament, may be adopted. And so you don't just have to look at all those that are registered and that are automatically transitional, but you have to look at each of them very carefully on each committee, and then you have to define it. So, as far as I'm concerned, we can now get out of this situation with two things: or we can suggest that the order of the day session can rebuff.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! I'll allow myself to quote the Rules. 47 Article 6 of the Rules: Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on draft laws, regulations, other acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall be adopted only on matters of the agenda of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council prior to the opening of the plenary session. This means that the procedure provides for the inclusion of the session now in the agenda, not today's session, but the session. Let's move on to the committee. The committee is working and we're bringing this matter up to date. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch. Clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u60	Mr. Head! It's not about the session, it's about the session. But there is only one way out of this that has been practiced repeatedly in the walls of Parliament when the order of the day was approved for the plenary week. And then we will clearly understand that, for example, these questions can be considered on Thursday or Friday after the committee meetings take place. And today we agree that the session decides to raise such questions on a particular day of the plenary week, and this is the only way out of this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u61	Roger that. Then we're going to do the plenary week, this is going to be the same result, but let's narrow it down to this very week. Okay. As we planned, we'd be looking at it on Thursday. There's more to it or we can. Please, Miroshnichenko. Please, and we'll take our chances. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Opposition Block. I'll explain what's actually going on in the hall right now. The rules require all of us to establish the order of the day session, your esteemed colleagues, before we begin to form the order of the day for this week. Why some of our colleagues do not want to approve all the bills registered in the Supreme Council and those that have been passed from the past. They want laws that do not regulate someone, not include them, and thus restrict the legislative right of national MPs. I am addressing each and every one of you, especially those who came to Parliament for the first time. Democracy begins with the legal possibility of legislative initiative and filtering through the formation of a day-to-day session of laws, it's not democratic, and it's not European standards anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u63	Thank you, Your Honor. To question 1095. I'm putting the draft ruling to a vote. Draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the President of the Russian Federation on the Liberation of the Ukrainian Airplane and the National Deputy of Ukraine VIII calling on the Hope of Viktorovna Savichenko. For this sessional week. To be included in the session order for this week. Please vote. [[11:04:15]] For 343 Decision taken. Next question. Registration number 1014, 1014-1, 1014-2. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for security and security of the national security of Ukraine). Is there no objection? All four, all three, to be exact. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[11:04:51]] For 309 Decision taken. The order of the day is formed. Dear colleagues, according to part six of the 47 articles, are determined that questions that are brought into the agenda for the session can be considered on that day. But since they are now included in this session. the sessional day, excuse me, they may be considered the next sessional day. But since we have determined that this should be done by the end of the week, I am now giving a mandate to the Standing Committee, together with the National Deputies of Ukraine, to work out a decision that has also been made by another committee, which is the main consideration of the issues that we have included in the agenda of this plenary week, to start working on an urgent basis in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council and to make proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of these issues in accordance with the procedure. If there's no denying it, we're going to go for that kind of action. Is there no objection? None. I'll call it in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u64	I'd like to make a statement from the National Deputy of Ukraine. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovich. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report my accession to the National Front. He's a member of the People's Front political party. Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, from what I've just announced. Dear colleagues, the announcement is about to be made by a national deputy. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u66	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I want to make some announcements. Dear friends, today, as spoke by the speaker, is the International Day of Prevention and Anti-Corruption. On October 14, last year, this Parliament was able to pass very important laws -- the law on preventing corruption and the law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. In order for the National Anti - Corruption Bureau to be operational, a special competition commission should be established to select the head, the director of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau. I would like to remind you that the procedure for establishing this commission involves the appointment of three persons from the President of Ukraine, three from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and three from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give an immediate commission to the Anti-Corruption Committee of our Parliament today. I ask you to give an immediate order today to the faction leaders regarding, firstly, the nomination of candidates for the nomination commission of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the committee to consider the procedure for the appointment or selection of these people by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the only way we can actually and effectively launch the mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u67	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u68	This is the only way we can effectively and quickly initiate the activities of a very important body to combat and combat corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a comment on the vote on the ruling concerning Hope Savchenko. Please, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u70	I give the floor to the People's Deputy, Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u71	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, respectable people of Ukraine, the opposition bloc, taking a consistent stand for an exclusively peaceful mechanism for the resolution of the crisis and the end of the war. So he will support the order concerning the application for the release of Hope Viktorovna Savichenko. We suggest that, as we now consider in the committees, we add the following: "and all those captured from all sides of the conflict." We are in favour of the release of our colleague, but there is a need for a full and peaceful settlement. We will support and hope for the support of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u72	Thank you. This will all be considered on the committees as required by the procedure. Dear colleagues, before the meeting is over, I'd like to invite the faction leaders to a meeting in the office. Comment, please, Andrew Cosemykin, comment and finish. Colleagues, if we provoke, I will not give my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u73	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to respond to those people's deputies who are carelessly reading, unfortunately, draft regulations and laws. The fact is that Nadia Saucenko is our fellow national deputy today, so this personal project made under this man who is in Russia today is being illegally maintained. And then this project clearly states, "and also all Ukrainian citizens who, during the period of armed conflict in eastern Ukraine, were captured illegally into the territory of the Russian Federation, and in spite of their will, are held in the territory of the Russian Federation, they must all be released." It's written like this, read it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u74	Heroim Slava!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-09-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next plenary meeting will take place on Thursday 11 December at 10 a.m. I would ask all the committees to carefully prepare the issue of the agenda. This is your responsibility! Thank you.
