ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. Let's evaluate the number of deputies who are ready to make very important decisions. Please include the "Council" system and show the country which number of national deputies are currently working in Parliament. Please. [[16:34:03]] There are 306 national deputies present. We continue our work. Dear colleagues, I inform you that the Conciliation Council has now taken place with the participation of the leaders of the MP groups and factions. We had a conversation about a document that was proposed at the morning session to support -- this is the Memorandum of Understanding and Peace. And now the already harmonized text should be printed and placed in the hall. While the Parliamentary Secretariat is working in this direction, I propose that we try to discuss and put into order the daily laws that propose parliamentary factions and groups to consider this session. You and I have stopped at Decree 4792: on some measures to prevent extremism and separatism. Can we try to reintroduce this order again? Colleagues, pay attention! "Freedom! That's exactly the question you're insisting on. And I am convinced that Parliament should still support the inclusion of a day-to-day draft decree on some measures to prevent extremism and separatism. Can we try to vote again? I can't hear you. We can. Dear colleagues, please, colleagues, attention, please calm down! Please support the inclusion in the agenda of our session of the Decree (registration number 4792) on some measures to prevent extremism and separatism. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:36:30.]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 1.59 – Fatherskina, 22 – Vitaly Klitschko, 2 – Economic Development, 2 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 26 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the faction leaders to work with the deputies so they can be here in the hall. Please make appropriate announcements to the Secretariat and turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies of Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u2	Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, fellow Members, now in our Parliament, another example is that, at least, half of the people's deputies represent the fifth column — the Kremlin agents. The bill, which you just failed again and failed to put into the agenda, provides for very simple things. Signs of separatists today are a Colorado tape. The sign of separatists today is the flags of the non-existent Donetsk Republic of Luhansk. The Separatist sign today is the three-colored pots that are installed on the administrative buildings, the state administrations of Ukrainian cities and villages. And today we have anticipated administrative and criminal responsibility for the hanging of such flags and for the appearance of them in Ukrainian, Ukrainian cities and villages. Today Russia in the Ukrainian Crimea, which it occupied, has banned the National National Ukrainian Yellow and Blue Flag. Today, Ukrainians are being punished, put in prison, put in car washes, and we cannot give a proper answer to the terrorists. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I ask you to consider the following question, regarding its inclusion in the agenda: draft 4607: draft Act amending the current legislation of Ukraine on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Do you understand the subject? Once again, Project 4607. Please, Your Honor, support this project for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:39:01]] For-126 The decision is not taken. By factions, please, how ready we are to fight corruption. Please. Regional Party - 14, 59 - Fatherland, Strike - 0, Economic Development - 4, Sovereign European Ukraine - 0, Freedom - 29, Company - 0, non-fractional - 20. Next question, dear colleagues. Project 4898: Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to ensure a guaranteed level of health care. Social law, respectable colleagues, and there is a proposal to support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues, take your seats, please. [[16:39:58]] For 180. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 41, 55" - Parenthood", Impact - 0.26 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 0, Freedom - 29, 11 - Company, non-fractional - 18. Dear colleagues, next question. Again? Please turn on the microphone to the head of the profile committee, Andrija Anatoliovich Cosemyakina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u4	Alexander Valentinovich, I want to say two words about the bill -- this is 4898 -- which has just not been voted on by some factions of the coalition. Because the Criminal Code is supplemented by article 184, there is criminal responsibility for the illegal reduction of the network of public and municipal health institutions. So all that our voters are constantly asking us to do is ask the Ukrainian people all the time that the members of UDARA, including the people on Maidan, have asked us not to cut down medical facilities. That's why they're not voting today. It's a disgrace! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, next question. Please provide appropriate medical care to the participants who were injured during an anti-terrorist operation (ATO) in the east of Ukraine 2014. Dear colleagues, please support, this is an important question. I ask all factions to vote in favour of the inclusion in the order of the day. Please. [[16:41:50]] For 190 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 57, Impact 26, Economic Development 31, Sovereign European Ukraine 22, Freedom 29, Company 0, non-fractional 23. Please, for reasons of vote, give the floor to the national MP, Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u6	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable, or disrespectful, MPs who don't even want to put the day's draft in order. This decree provides for the treatment of our military personnel, our law enforcement officers, who have been harmed in protecting peaceful people in eastern Ukraine, in the course of their oath. And this determination provides for the treatment of these people in Phoefania. Are you afraid that your seats will be taken while you're there treating your own hemorrhage? But in the end, millions of dollars are being spent on this Phoefania. Our soldiers deserved to be treated under normal conditions. So once again, I urge you to return, vote, and include this decision in the order of the day. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, can we go back to this question again? Please, please. Colleagues, please take your seats. Please now support the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel who perform tasks under the legal regime of the state of war or in the course of an anti-terrorist operation and their families. Please, this is a project, I'll remind you. Oh, no! Stop, stop. No.4897 we didn't vote right now. It's a draft decision. Once again, No4897 Project Regulation on ensuring proper medical care for participants in hostilities who were injured during an anti-terrorist operation (ATO) in eastern Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, support this draft decree (registration number 4897). Please vote. [[16:44:30.]] For 205 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, by factions, please. 7 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 63, 28 – Impact of Vitalia Klicka, 32 – Economic Development, "North European Ukraine" – 22, "Freedom" – 29, 24 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I say again. Please, colleagues, we won't. Let's vote better. No voices. The performances, I understand, have already been heard. Next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! I'll put him to the vote. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel who perform tasks under the legal regime of the state of war or in the course of an anti-terrorist operation and their families. This is Project No. 4834. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:45:44]] For 177 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 60, Impact 27, Economic Development 29, Sovereign European Ukraine 8, Freedom 28, Company 0, non-factional 23. Please, National Deputy Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u8	Dear National Deputies! It is unfortunate that most have not supported this bill once again, which provides additional social guarantees for military personnel who perform tasks under the legal regime of war or during an anti-terrorist operation. It is unfortunate that those who had the opportunity to read this law did not benefit. But once again, I ask you to put it to a vote because the motivation for this bill was information that our two helicopter crews, who are now being guarded in my hometown of Broda Lviv. We have already adopted two amendments to social protection laws today. There are still three adjustments. If someone else does, of course, propose to a committee of profilers. But put the bill into the agenda so that it can be considered more quickly. I ask you to put the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, I am ready to put to the vote. Colleagues, but I'm asking us to vote. I don't see you in the mood today. I understand that election campaigns, we have a lot of MPs involved, but these are responsible questions, dear colleagues. Responsibility to our people, to Ukraine. And it's more important, I think, than any election campaign, election agitation. Please, Rudzkowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u10	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! I am now addressing the right-hand side of the room, an opposition that has not voted. Maybe we'll find a compromise under Law 4897 (for treatment in Phoophania), Alexander Valentinovich, if we write: "military and peaceful citizens of Ukraine who have suffered in the eastern regions of Ukraine. And then we could provide at the right level with treatments, military personnel and civilians who were at the wrong time and in the wrong place. Because many civilians suffered during the operation in the eastern regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that changes to the draft decree or the law to adopt it in the first reading can only be made by the author of this draft decree or law. You and I, if we want to make any changes, we can make our own projects. When the authors propose changes, I'll put them to the vote. Dear colleagues, let's try to get back to work at the end of the day. I don't see until I'm in the mood to vote these questions. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of Financial Disaster and the Establishment of Prematures for Economic Growth in Ukraine (as regards guarantees for the retirement of persons released from military service and some others). Dear colleagues, 4337 draft law, social law, important law. There is a proposal to support its inclusion in the agenda. Please vote 4337. [[16:49:38]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The region's 42.59 -- "Fatherland, 20" -- "FATHER", 31 -- "Economic development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" -- 0.28 -- "Freedom", 0--Comparty, 24 -- non-fractional. Next question, dear colleagues. We have four questions left for inclusion in the agenda. 4837: Project Regulation on the Reduction of the Pressure of Control Authorities on Small and Medium Business in 2014 - 2017. Please, Your Honor, the content of the decree is clear, I hope, 4837. Please support the draft order for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:50:37]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 52 – Party of Regions, 57 – Fatherland, Impact 2, Economic Development – 27, 21 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 28 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 25 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, next question. The draft Law on the write - off of taxes and the collection of small and medium - size business entities. Please have a 4838 registration number. The offer is to put it in the order of the day. Please decide whether Parliament should be included in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:51:24]] For 165 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 50 – Party of Regions, 54 – Fatherland, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 9, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0, 28 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues, the following draft of the Act: amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting (to define the concept of a national audiovisual product and parts thereof in television programmes). 4143 registration number. Ladies and gentlemen, please make up your mind on this matter. Please vote. [[16:52:12]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0.54 – Fatherland, 0 – Impact, Economic Development – 1, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0.28 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 15 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please ask me the next question. This is the last question about getting into the agenda. No. 4870, this is a draft of the Law on Temporary Restrictions on State Oversight (Control) Measures in the Field of Economic Activity until 31 December 2016. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine whether this bill is included in the agenda, please vote 4870 for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:53:17]] For 155 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone. In the microphone, say, your microphone's been running for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, a large business forum was held yesterday — more than 800 people. Everyone made one request. Seventy monitoring bodies. Yeah, well, let them take a breath. A bill that was signed by all committee members - everyone! Pinzenik, all you do is command without reading. You're a disaster! You tell Cliché, Dusty, and you don't want to help business. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u13	One minute, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, it's a shame that our Supreme Council Hall has turned into a polling station. And once again, if you want to get rid of control, please eliminate 70 control organs. [[Applause]] And don't run an electoral program for one candidate in the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, I say again, I don't want any trouble in our room right now. You and I have not increased the workload on the work plan of the Supreme Council, because none of the projects that have been implemented by the MPs and factions have been included in the agenda. But we do have a question that we've been working on today (please leave your hands) during the day. This question concerns the Memorandum of Understanding and Peace. Now I have a printed text that we can now discuss and, if there is a wish in the Supreme Council, accept. This project was signed by the leaders of virtually most, so to speak, of the factions of the Supreme Council. I'd like to ask your colleagues to listen carefully, calmly, and then determine how to vote. I asked the Secretariat to distribute it, my dear colleagues. And I'm asking you, just not technically able to do this to our services, I would slowly read, and if there were any observations, I could, I think, correct this text with you. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to listen carefully, I will read the text that has been agreed upon today during the actual day. A memorandum of understanding and peace. "Ukraine is experiencing the most dramatic moment in its recent history. To ease the tension in some regions of the country, the Supreme Council of Ukraine urges all Ukrainian citizens to extend their arms to one another, to renounce radical action, hatred, to return together to work together to protect, develop and build a democratic, sovereign and only Ukraine, where people of all nationalities, political beliefs and religions will live freely and peacefully. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on all citizens of the country to unite in order to preserve our common house, Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the full scope of the Geneva Agreements of diplomats of Ukraine, the United States, the European Union, the Russian Federation of 17 April 2014, aimed at de-escalating the tension and restoring the safety of all citizens. The Supreme Council of Ukraine supports a national dialogue within the framework of the National Round Table of National Unity. The Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the election of the President of Ukraine on 25 May 2014 as a guarantee of peace and unity in society and calls on all authorities of the state to ensure the security of citizens during the vote and to establish results. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls for fair, transparent, democratic, presidential elections with equal opportunity for all presidential candidates. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on all Ukrainian citizens to participate in the presidential elections and to stop actions aimed at obstructing the electoral rights of citizens. The Supreme Council of Ukraine condemns the illegal use of weapons, violence, and mass killings of people and other crimes against humanity. The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its sympathy to all families of the dead. The Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses its gratitude to all Ukrainian citizens who are taking part in measures to ensure the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, the preservation of the constitutional system and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Based on its constitutional powers, based on a broad national dialogue, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will ensure the immediate implementation of constitutional reform based on the decentralization of state authority, which provides for: First, to consolidate Ukraine's status as a parliamentary-presidential republic and to establish a balance of power between all its branches and at central and local levels; the second is to ensure that the regions are empowered with the necessary financial resources by establishing a fair distribution of the income of the budget; Thirdly, a broad-based judicial reform aimed at guaranteeing citizens' rights to an honest and fair trial and strengthening the independence of the judicial system; Fourthly, the reform of the law enforcement authorities and the prosecutor's office to ensure human rights and freedoms, the security of citizens and the restoration of confidence in the law enforcement system, in particular by eliminating the functions of general oversight in the prosecutor's office; The fifth fight against corruption at all levels of government, the creation of a national anticorruption body in Ukraine with broad powers to control the activities of officials. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls for non-admission of interfaith and inter-national conflicts in the country. In addition to the constitutional status of the Ukrainian language, we will, as a national, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, guarantee the status of the Russian language. [[B in m in s a l in]] (Dear colleagues, we have this status under the Constitution. Colleagues, I ask you, in accordance with the Constitution, read the Constitution of Ukraine) [[B in m in s a l in]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine will pass the Ukrainian Law on Local Referendums. The Supreme Council of Ukraine commits itself to enacting the Law on the Non - Criminal Persecution of Citizens for taking part in mass actions in Ukraine, provided that they have liberated captured buildings, other public places, and the voluntary recruitment of weapons, except for those who have committed serious and particularly serious crimes against human life and health. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls for the disarmament of all illegal forms and surrenders of illegal weapons by citizens, the return of all occupied buildings to their legitimate owners, the release of all occupied streets, areas and other public places in Ukrainian cities, villages and villages. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the law enforcement authorities to prepare a plan of action to ensure the safety of citizens and to prevent violations of human health and lives and to ensure that hostages and administrative buildings are freed, that weapons are made available to all illegal security personnel, and that military personnel involved in anti-terrorist operations are returned to their permanent locations. We are all different, but we are all alone because we are citizens of one sovereign independent and independent Ukraine. We must do our utmost not to deprive our offspring of this priceless treasure." Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? None. Dear colleagues, may I put it to a vote? I can't. Please, I see some factions say I can't. Please, Irina Heratchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of one faction that bears the proud name "faction of the Regions" that we have 100 national minorities in the country and they all have language. So let's say through whom, please, let's put, "to ensure equal development of all languages of national minorities," then it's going to be the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Including the Crimean Tatar language, including everyone else. If anyone wants to demonstrate their love for Russian, I invite us all together on June 6th, on Pushkin's birthday, to host a Russian dictator for all the Supreme Council deputies. And we're going to see if these Russian-speaking advocates, or whether they themselves know it, or if they're just speculating on this terrible issue. And that's why we're offering to protect the languages of all national minorities. Then we will be the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the entire country, which will protect the languages of all national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I understand. Dear colleagues, I understand that the proposal was "Russian language and the development of all languages of national minorities." Is that what I'm saying? My colleagues, once again, let the faction leaders speak in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fellows, I say again, I don't understand the position of the strike faction, excuse me. I need all the factions to vote. Please turn on Victor Pinzenik's microphone. Let's take the faction, Victor Mikhailovich. I'll put it this way: Victor Mikhailovich, please make a proposal for the strike faction. Please, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u18	Alexander Valentinovich, this is the consequences of organization of work. You were given the position of the faction, by Irina Heratchenko, and we discussed the text of the document. And the faction insists that we provide conditions for the development of all languages of national minorities in Ukraine. This is the position of the impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. Please calm down, dear fellows! All right, guys, let's do it again. Colleagues, calm down! We have to take a very important document, and I don't want anyone here to break it, and I don't want anyone to pretend it, it has to be the position of all the factions of Parliament. When we have disagreements, I can take a break for 10 minutes and agree not to break the document out of a voice, you know. Please turn on the microphone to Inni, the Godsister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, first of all, I think we need to have a technical break to distribute the text that's been changed. We cannot vote in favour of such a document. So please take a 10 minutes technical break, print it out, give it out so we can see what we're voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I'm back. Colleagues, calm down! I support the proposal of the National Deputies. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to print out the text so that there will be no abuse and reports that we voted for another document. And for 10 minutes, I ask the faction leaders to come to the head of the Supreme Council so that we can make decisions with you, not play games. Please take 10 minutes off.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u22	Attention! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council continues its work. It is very difficult for us to go in the direction of adopting the Memorandum of Understanding and Peace. Dear colleagues! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, sit in their jobs, and you and I are determined to accept this Memorandum. I'm going to read a paragraph about the language question. After the Conciliation Board, it will sound like this. Attention! "In addition to the constitutional status of the Ukrainian language as the state Supreme Council of Ukraine will guarantee the status of the Russian language. The State will also guarantee the support of national minority languages in their compact residences." Do you understand the meaning of the paragraph? I see. Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can vote. Thank you. The National MP, Zharavsky, asks that there be editorial regulations, technical editorials after completion. Therefore, respectable colleagues, the offer to support as a whole. No objections? First we're going to include this order, No.4904, in the agenda. Please support the inclusion of Decree No. 4904 in today's session. Please vote. [[17:44:54]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, here they say: the word. The Conciliation Council was adopted without discussion to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote, Your Honor, as a basis. Without discussion, the Conciliation Council made a decision. Please support the Law Project (registration number 4904) "Memorandum of Understanding and Peace" as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:45:37]] For 252 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 64, Parenthood 59, Impact 30, Economic Development 33, Sovereign European Ukraine 27, Freedom 0, Company 0, non-fractional 39. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. Colleagues! I'll give you one minute of replication, absolutely. Dear colleagues! There's an offer for us now. We don't have enough literally a few votes to fight all levels of election violations, i.e. presidents and so on. This is the first project, remember? 4741. We don't have enough votes for his acceptance. And the offer is also for small business. Is that what I'm saying? 4837 is also an offer. And the proposal goes to the Interim Investigation Commission on the assassination of Mayor Hark Kernes. Do you understand the offer? Now, now. Colleagues, come on! Let's give the Communists one minute. Don't say that. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u23	By the way, you promised that minute on the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u24	I'll give it to Mikhalchino, I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u25	Why didn't the faction vote now for a memorandum that respected our constituents. First, the phrase was deleted, which is essential: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls for the restoration of the rule of law and civil order in the state by halting the bloodshed, by bringing to justice the responsibility of all those responsible for the murder of peaceful people during mass protests." They took it off. Secondly, we suggested here, where the language is concerned, that "provide the guarantee of the constitutional status of the Russian language." It's been ruled out. And third. We believe that it was inappropriate to discuss the election of the President because there were different views and differs in terms of what was recorded here. It says here: "Democratic presidential elections with equal opportunity for all presidential candidates." As this has happened to us, all these equal possibilities have been seen with you and we know. We therefore considered that this paragraph should be deleted in order to solve all problems for all factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u26	Thank you. National MP Mikhalchisin. Please, a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u27	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union clearly and consistently supports the peaceful settlement of the civil conflict in Ukraine and has made all its proposals to the memorandum text. At the same time, we firmly and firmly state that we will not support signing this document, even if it is incomplete and far from conclusive. First of all, the text says that we are calling for the abandonment of radical action. Please tell us, what radical action is being taken today by the defenders of the Fatherland, the military servicemen who stand on the watch of the eastern borders of our borders? What kind of blood is shed today that fulfills their constitutional duty, and what kind of Supreme Council is today refusing to provide social protection? In this Parliamentary Hall we have traitors of the Fatherland, enemies of the Ukrainian people! How against our wounded being treated in Feofania Hospital, where they have created a comfortable bourgeois paradise in the past! Where You Were Treated Against Nonexistent Diseases! And today's wounded: gunmen, military officers have nowhere to be treated -- they're treated in field hospitals! Come on, guys. Here, in tex, we say that the Supreme Council supports the full scope of Geneva.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u28	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u29	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. With the same success, we can support the Westphalia Peace or the Fourteen Points of Woodrow Wilson. Finally, with regard to the constitutional status of language, we have these problems clearly, clearly regulated in the Constitution of Ukraine. And according to the Preamble of the Constitution and article 11 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the principal subject of State creation is the Ukrainian nation. Then the status of the state language is to us an element of the state system that today protects our soldiers, the protectors of the Fatherland, including my right-wing friends. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this Memorandum we have in no way questioned the constitutional status of the Ukrainian language. Let us therefore make an objective assessment of the situation and the decisions we make. Dear colleagues, please, there was an offer. Colleagues, we're not discussing this. There was an offer to go back to voting on some issues. 4607. Now was the national MP Michalchisin, 4897 the decision — whether or not — to return to this question. And also the Law on Criminal Responsibility for Violations of the Election Rights of Citizens. Dear colleagues! And 4834. So, dear colleagues, let's take a vote on this issue. And so, the block -- colleagues, attention -- is just so that there's no breach and discussion. It's not discussed, it's included in the agenda. Attention, to the order of the day. First. I ask for the insistence of the people's deputies to support the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending existing legislation on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Yes or no? Is that it or not? Oh, I'm sorry, no, 4837 is another question. 4837 is a draft regulation to reduce the pressure of control authorities on small and medium-sized businesses. Yes or no? That's a question, isn't it? In 2014-2017. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of this matter. Please vote 4837. [[17:53:03]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 45 – regions, 66 – "Paternity", "Breakdown" – 2, "Economic development" – 9, 18 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 26 – "Freedom", The Company – 0.23 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, now two projects to treat our military personnel. 4897: Project Regulation on the provision of adequate medical care for participants in hostilities who were injured during an anti-terrorist operation in the east of Ukraine. Please, 4897. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:53:51]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 13.67 – Fatherland, 30 – Impact, 31 – Economic Development, 19 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 27 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, we could take it. Let's at least adopt this law: about making changes (in order of day) to some legislative acts concerning guarantees of social and legal protection for military personnel who perform tasks under the legal regime of the state of war or during an anti-terrorist operation, and their families. A social law that protects the military. Please, Your Honor, support 4834 regarding the inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. [[17:54:45]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 7-regions, 66-Fatherland, 27-32- "Economic development", "North European Ukraine"- 20.27- "Freedom", "Compatium 0-non-fractional-28." Dear colleagues, the last attempt to get into the agenda and make a decision. A project to combat the violation of the electoral rights of citizens. Colleagues, it's important that we support this issue now, 4741. Please, Your Honor, to increase the responsibility for violations of the electoral rights of citizens. The important question is, we're all interested. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda first. It's a day-to-day inclusion, Your Honor, please vote. [[17:55:43]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Party of regions – 0 (I'm surprised simply, colleagues, you), Fatherhood – 67, 31 – Impact, Economic Development – 32, 19 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 27 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 27. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am once again. I'm going to the Party of Regions, colleagues, well, you're interested in having an honest election, so let's now take a look at the question of the inquiry committee after the Kernes assassination. Please support, please, the inclusion and decision-making of increased responsibility for the violation of voting rights. I don't think you're going to be faking it, but you're interested in getting your uniforms straight so there's no pressure on the voters. Dear colleagues, please, regarding the inclusion in the agenda. To be included in the agenda and to make a decision afterwards. First the inclusion, then the acceptance. Well, what do you mean, we've got a week to go? What, then, should we include and vote when? Five days left before the election. Colleagues, back up, back up. Keep it up, fellows. Let us courageously protect the electorate from pressure and violations of their electoral rights. Please, Your Honor, first of all, regarding the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:57:23]] For 209 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. The factions. 7, all the way, the Party of Regions, 68 the Fatherland, 30 the Impact, 32 the Economic Development, the Sovereign European Ukraine, 19, 26 the Freedom, the Company -- 0 the Non-Factional. Please turn on the Caplin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u31	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens! Well, today's vote has put an end to what we should call the Party of Regions. You're not an opposition, because it's the opposition that would be as interested as possible in adopting this law. You don't do politics -- you do political blackmail and political banditry. You are now allowing the enemies of Ukraine, the enemies of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, including Donbassa, to break the presidential election because they will do everything they can to buy votes to force people not to go to the polls for money, and also to intimidate them. How are you going to look at Donbass? Today, from this day forward, we must not call you opposition. You're different, you're different.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, once again. Basically, we've tried, we've used every opportunity to enact important laws. I honestly don't see any way to convince you that we are going to adopt this law. We had the only question left, we talked about it. The next commission, she doesn't need to be involved, after an attack on Kernes. I'm asking the profile committee, did she pass the committee? The MPs, did the factions make their proposals? The factions have made proposals? Please, is the Fatherland faction an offer to the commission? Faction "BACK"? Please turn on the microphone to the head of the Committee, Pisarenko Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u33	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, all the factions have submitted their representatives, the only one is no representative of the "Freedom" faction. But I think it's going to be in the working order, we're going to add this term. Everyone else is. So there's a proposal to put it to a vote because it's time for the commission to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, once again, I don't see any problem with creating a commission to investigate the assassination of Mayor Hark Kernes. No objections? I won't. It takes 150 votes, I'll remind you. Project number? Name number. 4860: Draft decree for the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the assassination of Kharkiv City Chief Gennady Kernes. Colleagues, do you copy? Please determine your vote on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission. Please vote. [[18:00:53]] For 133 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 48, 8 – Fatherland, 11 – Impact, 34 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, Freedom – 0, Company – 10, non-fractional – 16. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I apologize. Come on. Please, from the rostrum. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u35	Dear fellow MPs! I will try to explain to a respected colleague, Yuri Andrianovich what is "resistance from radical measures". Today, at 4: 00 p.m. in the town of Krivom Roge, an attack was carried out on the tent with the supporters of the Party of the Regions. The palace was taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't bother you! Alexei, I didn't interfere with you! The palace was taken. So during the attempt to restore the tent, the agitators received a knife wound from the attackers. Thank God they're being detained today by law enforcement agencies. I find this fact absolutely unacceptable under these circumstances and with the signing of such a Memorandum. That's why I think. I would like to consider my statement an official request to Mr. Avakov's Ministry of the Interior. And I want to tell you. Alexander Valentinovich. From a high rostrum, you stated that transparent, democratic and, most importantly, secure elections would be held. Therefore, as Acting President, I demand that you perform this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by the law enforcement authorities to ensure that all presidential candidates are able to run a pre-election campaign. This is our responsibility, fellow believers. And all presidential candidates, registered by the Central Electoral Commission, have the right to campaign. And I ask the power structures to ensure their right to conduct agitation and to ensure that our citizens are elected. Dear colleagues, you and I have dealt with these issues as much as possible. They may not have done as much today as possible, but they certainly did get the wrong result. At the same time, I am convinced that the adoption of the Memorandum of Understanding and Peace is a very important step by the Supreme Council, which shows that we are doing everything we can to solve this problem peacefully. Those who make up weapons who leave administrative buildings will be amnesty. Those who are criminals, who have killed people, who have tortured people, who continue to fight Ukraine will be destroyed. Period. There will be no other choice. [[Applause]] At the same time, fellow believers, we do our utmost to make peace, tranquillity, harmony in the country. This is our responsibility to our offspring. With regard to the work of the Supreme Council, respected colleagues. Clearly, we are having an active election campaign during this week. The active phase of the electoral campaign. Less than five days remained in fact before the decision of the Ukrainian people to elect the next President of Ukraine was taken. That's why, at the suggestion of MPs and factions, we'll be able to work for the people's deputies in the regions with our electorates. We have a non-sessional schedule next week, but we can't, let's just say, not work for long. Parliament will therefore meet on Thursday, Thursday next, on May 29th, where it will be possible to conclude on the first round of the electoral campaign. I'm sure all the national deputies will be working on Thursday, May 29th, here. And other suggestions, ideas about the non-participation of MPs in the work of parliament, we're not going to hear. So, dear colleagues, we're closing the session. And we will continue the work of the Supreme Council at 10 a.m. on Thursday, 29 May. Good-bye.
