ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Please come into the hall and take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please register with the National Deputies. [[10:15:49]] 368 national deputies are in the session room. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, before we begin our work, I would like to welcome the nominees in a traditional manner. Let's welcome the birthday of our colleagues – Gregory Ivanovich Times and Mikola Vladimirovich Tomenka. [[Applause]] Welcome to the nominees. Dear colleagues, a few announcements, and we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. In accordance with 60 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozachenko Leonid Petrovich, was elected head of the association. According to the 60th article, according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the election of the deputy head of the deputy faction of the "Fatherland" of the Ukrainian national deputy Sobolev Sergija Vladislavovic. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association "Deputy Control". The headquarters of the union were Barna Stepanovich, Kryvoša Gennady Grigorovič, Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich, Popov Igor Volodymirovich, Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decree we have approved with you, 1002, which we have adopted on November 27th, we are now in the turn to consider the order of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Yesterday I held an advisory board with factions and groups leaders, and we decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the agenda, which takes into account all the bills registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 10, 2014. So all the bills we have, we include them in the agenda of the day session, and we send them to the committee accordingly, and then we look at them in accordance with the Rules. Since all the bills are included, absolutely, I don't think there's any point in voting on this issue right now. Although I can see there's an offer. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I am simply referring to the fact that so many deputies were working productively yesterday, and very large committee meetings were not all able to register the last drafts, not 10, but 11, today, who filed the morning and to be included. Because that will be fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u4	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Chumak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u5	Mr. Head, I'd like to support the proposal of the People's Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Oksana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u7	As you recall, we have an unfinished question regarding the formation of a steering committee, including the heads of several committees. So with a view to completing this matter of committee consideration, I ask you to include in today's agenda Order number 1315 and consider it next to Decree 1291, that is, the composition of the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u8	They're intertwined. Thank you. Dear colleagues, then there's the next offer. All the bills, including those registered today in the Supreme Council. Then there are no exceptions or restrictions. Is there no objection? Then, with this proposal, including the one announced by Oxana Ivanovna Siroid and the national deputies Kugel and Chumak, I place it as a basis for the vote as a whole. Please vote. [[10:20:28]] For 349 I'll take the order. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question is about our agenda. Today, we are discussing a very important issue with you: the issue of the approval of the Government's Action Programme, the issue is extremely serious, requires proper representation and discussion. So I would suggest to you today that we work as follows: the first report of the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Government's Action Programme, the next question within 20 minutes, the committee's report, within 5 minutes, statements from factions and groups, to 30 groups, statements from non-fractional deputies, three speeches per minute, and then the final word of the Prime Minister of Ukraine accordingly. I don't care how to start a discussion of this important issue, I'm going to put to the vote this is the order of consideration and I'm going to ask the people's deputies to determine how to proceed. Please put to the vote. [[10:22:00]] For 325 Decision taken. I would ask the faction secretariat to constantly show the vote so that the national MPs and the country can see who is voting for what decision. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the first question of the plenary meeting today. And I invite you to the words of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u9	Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the great Ukrainian people! The Ukrainian Parliament is being reviewed by the State Cabinet Program. This program is based on a series of provisions of the Coalition Agreement text. Of course, this program is based on our course for European integration. And the basis for such a program is the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. To answer the question, What can I do? – answer the question: what are the challenges in Ukraine today. I would like to declare three key challenges for the Ukrainian state and propose solutions to the difficult situation, to the crisis that is in Ukraine, and it is up to us how quickly and effectively we will find a way out and overcome this crisis. The key threat for Ukraine today is the threat of independence. This threat is primarily related to Russian military aggression. Russia, which annexed Crimea, Russia, sent its terrorists to Donbas or in general to eastern Ukraine. Russia, which destroys Ukraine's economic potential, and the most important thing that can't be restored is human life. We lose Ukrainians in a war that was fought by the Russian Federation. In addition, the key challenge for independence is also energy dependence on the Russian Federation. Much has been done, but much more needs to be done, which will be discussed further. The second block that relates to military economic loss. Remember, 20 percent of the Ukrainian economy is concentrated in Lugansk and Donetsk. We lost 20 percent of our income, 20 percent of our currency, 20 percent of our economic potential. Today, the situation is even more complex than it was nine months ago. As an objectively damaged economic infrastructure, destroyed businesses, and factories, the destroyed economy is now being seen. Gold reserves below 10 billion. And there is no reason to say today that they will increase except that there is no sign of the next agreement with our international creditors. State budget deficit. Now we're keeping the budget deficit at 68 billion dollars. That's about 4 percent of the deficit. In addition to the government budget deficit, we have an institution that has a deficit greater than the entire country's budget, which is the NAC National Stock Company Naftogaz Ukraine. In view of the fact that the country's tariffs do not correspond to the real market value of energy resources, this year the state budget gave direct NAC's Naftogaz Ukraine 110 billion dollars to buy gas and to calculate with our suppliers both to the European and to the northern neighbours. It is objective that military aggression has an overall impact on all economic indicators. We've been predicting a downturn of GDP minus 10 percent, and now the projections have improved a little bit: minus 7, but this is affecting the real improvement of the economic situation. The same applies to inflation. Inflation reaches 19 percent and is linked to a number of factors, including a substantial fall in exchange rates that have led to the instability of the Ukrainian banking system. And here, separately with the National Bank, we need to take steps to stabilize the banking system. As for the third challenge, the third challenge is corruption. Corruption, which lies in the face of inefficient management, untransparent government purchases. Corruption, which lies in the surface of substantive regulation and excessive powers of central and local authorities, is at the root of the absence of an effective law enforcement, prosecutorial and judicial system to combat real corruption in the country. How can we find answers to all these challenges that the country has never experienced in all its years of independence? First of all, honourable Members of Parliament, such challenges are answered only when they are all together. Only when Parliament, the government, the President, together with the Ukrainian people and, above all, with the Ukrainian people, conscious of their full responsibility are they making real changes. No one promises easy changes to anyone. And today I'm going to try to answer you to what reform is, first of all, European experience. We're going to Europe, aren't we? Taking first of all the requirements and criteria that our international partners and international creditors see. And after taking what was done for nine months. Few, dear friends, are popular, but what has not been done for 23 years now needs to be done in 23 months. Starting with the first call, it's security. A new security policy must be introduced in the country. Objectively, in order to have an army, a law enforcement system, to have secure and built borders, it is necessary to finance them. I realize that in this room everyone wants to give not 5 percent of GDP, but 105. I won't. We can only promise what we can do. That's why the program predicts up to 5 percent of GDP -- the largest figure in history! - to finance the defense and the law enforcement system. I would like to remind you that in the current year, the Government Reserve Fund has been allocated additional funding for national security and defence measures of 19 billion dollars. Built from scratch by the National Guard, more than one and a half thousand technical units were purchased, and the military security in the area of counterterrorism was doubled. The second block that is geopolitical is where are we, who are we with? And there was a rather lengthy discussion in Ukraine about, so we're in the West or in the East, we're building our own security system or we're going somewhere? And this discussion led to the fact that uncertainty enabled Russia to identify itself: it captured Crimea and it entered the territory of Donbas. That is why this is the price of the former parliament and former president of the Ukrainian law, which provided for the so-called non-block status. It turns out that off-block status is to become part of Russia. Our political position is to cancel the non-block status for Ukraine. [[Applause]] We have to define and bring the country to all the Nativity standards. As for further cooperation with NATO, the annual approval of the "Ukraine-NATO" action plan, and here I would like to address our partners separately, and I will have a meeting with the Secretary-General of NATO on Monday. We're hoping for real support, and those four trust funds that were claimed five months ago should have real fulfillment. The Ukrainian army should be built according to the logic and standards of the strongest, not just the military, but the right, NATO peace bloc. It's an industrial defence complex. There is a decision of the National Security and Defence Council, and the government proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order. A military-industrial agency will be set up in the government. As part of our amendment to the State Defense Order Act, we also need to make a substantial and qualitative change in the management system of Ucroborprom, which in all previous presidents was a pocket for wealth, not a company that manufactures new weapons, and which captures new markets through the sale of Ukrainian weapons. Third: regarding the state border. This is also a matter of national security. We've started the European Wall project. Who likes "The Wall," can call it "The Wall." A state that does not have an established border cannot protect its territory. We need to build a border between Ukraine and the Russian Federation so that no Russian terrorists, mercenaries, illegal migrants can cross our border and that Ukraine can say to everyone, "This is our territory, we will protect it." The border between Ukraine and Russia will be built, and the first project of 235 million dollars that we got from the European Union to secure the border has been received. In addition, I want to point out that without the border and the control of the movement of persons, including the control of illegal immigration, no one will give us a visa-free regime. So in our program of visa-free state border construction, border security and the next phase of visa-free regime. We think it's also a matter of national security. And with regard to obtaining a visa-free regime for Ukraine, the issuance of biometric passports will begin in 2015. With regard to the provision of military and ATO personnel. State Service for veterans and participants in the ATO was created. The rehabilitation and social integration programme of our boys who fought and fought for Ukraine's independence and freedom is a key priority for the government. The program, not just the program, but the provision of Ukrainian military personnel and the new logistics system, which is now being built by the new Defence Minister, will allow for a change in the supply and equipment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The subject of national security is also the protection of our interests in the courts. I recall that the Ukrainian State filed two lawsuits against the Russian Federation before the European Court of Human Rights. Russia, as an aggressor state, is obliged to compensate Ukraine for the damage caused by the illegal annexation of Crimea and Russian military aggression. The total amount of the lawsuit is already above one trillion today. In addition, Ukraine began filing a complaint with the Russian Federation, the United Nations International Court of Justice for violations by the Russian Federation of the International Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism. Russia is financing terrorism, and it is bound to do so! And she will answer to the UN International Court of Justice. [[Applause]] A particular issue of national security is information policy. I know about the long-standing discussions that took place with regard to the creation of ministries. Our answer is what was provided for in the Coalition covenant. First: Create an innovation. Ukraine should be known about in the world. In each hotel, there should be Ukrainian innomination in every country, where English and German, French, and Spanish are spoken about Ukraine. We're a country that should be in everyone's mouth. So active information policy in the West. The second is about internal information policy. Parliament decided to create social television. The government has decided to set up a public stockholder society called the Joint Speech of Ukraine. We are on the path of disposing all media and implementing decisions on social television. Social television has begun in the country, and information security is a key and one of the main priorities for the country as a whole. The country needs to know the truth, the country needs to know where we're going, how we're going, and what our goals are. The country should protect itself in the information field, both inside and outside. The second block is a new government policy or, as our coalition partners rightly said, the Self-Help faction, the public administration. I'd start with a system of government. What's going on? We have objectively changed in 20 years with a hook of boards at various types of institutions, but the point remains the same — too much government regulation. The state is everywhere. If that were to be useful, there are no questions, but as used, first and foremost, including in terms of wealth and corruption, that should be the case. I'll give you an example, distinguished national MPs. Half a year ago, the former parliament, under the pressure of the government, decided to ban checks on all subjects of entrepreneurial activity, and only one institution had a right of inspection – the State Fiscal Service. No one was checked for six months. Did something happen in the country? Nothing. This does not mean that the State should not regulate, it should. But this means that the functions of government regulators that are in the country today are so ineffective that the country can successfully live without them. That's why we're proposing the next approach in public administration. We take the EU Agreement, we take the standards of the European Union and we gradually place the European matrix on Ukrainian realities. I'll start by reducing the number of touch points for the Ukrainian business with the Ukrainian authorities. We go after the first stage of deregulation is the reduction in the number of verification and control bodies. Since the 56th, we've moved on to the 28th -- we've doubled! – this is the first stage, dear colleagues. The second is about functions that we can't forget; or organs can be smaller, and functions can be larger. In total, we had 1,000, 63 different kinds of functions left. Together with Parliament, you and I will amend the Ukrainian Licensing Act, reduce the number of control functions, and gradually deal with real deregulation, reducing the number of both controlling and other bodies. In particular, I would like to highlight the issue of deregulation and our compliance with European standards. There are now old Soviet, Soviet, and now they can be called Russian GOST. And the discussion on the implementation of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union was primarily about not allowing Ukraine to move to European standards. It's, you know, from a broad track -- narrowly or vice versa, like 110 volts -- to 220. So it's to give up your Soviet past and become part of that civilized world where the competitive economy is, where the market is supposed to be, where the biggest markets are. That's why – listen carefully, industrialists! – 1500 different national standards, which are former Soviets, will be fully translated into European standards. The Ukrainian economy must meet fully the criteria and realities of the EU. Basically, in the general database, the new standards are going to be 28,000. It's a fairly long-term job, it's a very difficult job, it's a technical regulation work, and for that we have a technical mission of the European Union that will help us translate Ukraine's economy into real European rails -- quality and standards. Decentralization and regional development. The past government has started this work, and the current government, along with the new pro-European, Ukrainian Parliament, must complete this work. We see this work in two blocks. The first is the new budget code. And we're going to propose to Parliament the implementation of this budget code, which provides for the transfer of additional rights and powers, but I'm also going to mark separately the responsibility of the local authorities. Really? Money is not passed on without responsibility. And rights are not answered, they are not passed on without obligation. Therefore, we place additional tax, congregation, resource base, and additional responsibility for maintaining the regions and liabilities to our local communities in the respective regions. I would also like to point out, in particular, the elimination of the DR and other organs that were concentrated in Kiev. As we work with you here to introduce laws, we will discuss everything. Well, and objectively, this is the implementation of transparent offices. As for the process of real decentralization, I believe that the President of Ukraine should be the leader of the process. As real decentralization must take place through changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. My political position remains unchanged: the elimination of district administrations and the transfer of powers to appropriate councils. [[Applause]] Now for the shots, dear friends. With our staff, we have major problems in the country as a whole. And in order to build a social elevator, we have to do two functions. First. To carry out the Law of Ukraine on Illustration and to meet the burden that is on our feet. And it's no longer an inefficient state, not even management. Now for the second one. Who's to be involved? We had practice when we once did an open competition involving deputy ministers on issues of European integration. In principle, I can tell you that 60 percent of the people recruited at the open competition are very deserving people. But such practices must be implemented throughout the country’s system of government. And that's why the adoption of Ukraine's new Public Service Act, where it's a key principle, is competitive public selection. Individually obliged to stop at the learning system. A system of human resources training that can work in public administration is now being built up to the point where only diplomas and papers are issued. And that's why our National Service Agency, together with the corresponding Deputy Prime Minister, will be ready to introduce a new Ukrainian State Service Act to Parliament in the first quarter. And the last. It's not the last one, but what's very important is electronic governance. Both in Parliament and in government, we finance companies that produce paper. Tons of paper hours, months, and sometimes years of transmission of those or other papers that are stuck in different kinds of ministries, the lack of a rapid response to the letters and the rapid response in the government system means one thing -- the Estonian experience -- we need to move on to an electronic governance system. This is the personal ID of every person in the country, and I would like to emphasize that the person on the Internet should look for help and give it to him. The same is true of government authorities. Personalization and the direct possibility of electronic governance in general for the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the approval of the Act on Access to Open Data. Anti-corruption policy now. In principle, we can discuss the need for laws. I'm going to get this discussion back on track. The first package of the toughest and most reformist anti-corruption laws was adopted two months ago. One of the laws was passed by the President, and four laws were passed by the government of Ukraine. We have a lot of good, great laws. This is just a problem with the implementation of the laws. So in anti-corruption policy, we think the first thing we need to do is finally create a National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is established by special procedure, and Parliament is finally deciding who will run the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. That is why I am asking the members of Parliament to expedite this process with the President to appoint this body. In addition to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, we have adopted a law that provides for the establishment of a National Commission against Corruption. And I would like to welcome you all to the fact that according to this law now all declarations of government officials will be published in an electronic database. The law also gives the national authority the right to fight, the preventive body to combat corruption to monitor the life of a civil servant. Monitoring the life of a civil servant is the equivalent of what's written in the declaration and how this official lives. As far as the last fight against corruption is concerned, not the last, but what corresponds to government decisions is the discovery of all databases and registers of all assets and property belonging to officials. I saw an offer from one of the factions concerning the land. According to the law, this information is also subject to disclosure. That's why we need to eventually complete the State Land cadastre, which is the object where all the databases on the ground are stored. A law enforcement system. I also heard a series of critical suggestions from the law enforcement system. I think we're ready to have a discussion in this regard. But there is a conceptual document approved by the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the reform of the IMF system. He was personally present two days ago at the IMF Expert Council for Reform, where foreign experts are involved, where civil society is involved, and where the Ministry of Internal Affairs system works. Such a concept is and will be introduced into Parliament by the National Police Act. The discussion on what should be in the law will certainly take place within the framework of our coalition. As far as justice is concerned. And here, dear friends, no corruption will be fought until the foundation of corruption lies in the judicial system, both in the prosecution and in the law. That's why we're both proposing and turning to Parliament, adopting a new Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. And do a full re-testing of all 9,000 Ukrainian judges. [[Applause]] As far as basic key reform in the system is concerned. I appeal to the members of Parliament with the next proposal. According to article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is a higher court. In the last 10 years, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has been depriving itself of a key function, namely the right to make legal and judicial decisions. A number of special courts have been created, which in some cases, unfortunately, can be called not as special courts, but as closed-circuit companies. That is why the government proposes that the Supreme Court be restored to the Supreme Court of Justice and that it should not create a four - line but a three - line judicial system. And do everything to ensure that Ukrainian citizens have direct access to the court, so that they do not go to Kiev to defend their rights, but that local courts have the full powers necessary to resolve the disputes. And for that, they will make appropriate changes to both the Constitution of Ukraine and the country's procedural laws. Economic policy is one of the most complex elements, the country's distinguished national deputies. You and I will be making very complex and very, very unpopular decisions in just two weeks, which are called reforms. Such reforms have taken place in the Baltic countries, such reforms have taken place in Greece, and such reforms have taken place in Spain, Italy, and in Germany and France. This reform reduces the cost of government equipment and reduces the cost of the public sector. We are obliged to cut government spending by 10 percent over the course of two years. To this end, to Parliament, my fellow Members, by the end of the year, the State Budget Act along with the general tax package that I will now tell you about separately. Now, with regard to changes in tax legislation. So our government's proposal to cut taxes from about 22 to 9 taxes. Now I want to say to prejudice that it doesn't mean that all taxes are cancelled. Well, I wish we had a happy communist future where no one pays taxes, everyone can not work, and everyone is happy and smiling. It's just in fantastic books, and in reality, it's a completely different story. There are 22 taxes, we reduce them to 9. We're taxing low, we're taxing low. The other one. We're transferring the accounting and tax systems to international standards and uniting financial and tax reporting. There'll be a maximum of five differences, today there's 40 of them with a hook. And we're going to go a long way towards overcoming these differences. Now the third is about wages. I'll give you the number I brought to the government meeting. In Kiev, the richest city in Ukraine. If you subtract from the general fund the costs that the state budget funds for government officials. We've got 100 percent of the FOP, we've got only the private sector left. So the figure in the private sector is that 40 percent of the Chinese are officially paid less than 1 thousand and 218 dollars. That's a lie! Payment of shadow wages. Non-receipt of income into the budget. No funds in the Pension Fund and social funds. We realize that we need to give incentives to get these costs out of the shadows. What does the government offer? And now we're having a long discussion with the IMF, because it's not that simple, comrades. Now we have 41, the EUSR, the only social contribution. We're gradually proposing to reduce it to 15 percent. My idea is to put 15. But our international creditors are saying that there is too much risk that we put 15 percent and we don't get pay out of the shadows. And that's why. And we can just lose a lot of income. Now, according to our calculations, if we put 15 percent, I'll tell you that the negative numbers are about 30 billion dollars. We're going to get some compensators, but the government insists that we start reducing the only social contribution in a step from 41 percent to 15 percent. At the same time, the honourable national deputies, along with the National Bank, are limiting the circulation of shadow cash. Shadow cash, which partly goes to corruption, and shadow cash, which is paid as wages. We want to take the interest in a shadow business in paying wages because of a variety of schemes. It should be more convenient for them to pay a tax than for a shadow to take out the cash and pay a salary in an envelope. Now in small and medium business. We offer two solutions so that there is not a lot to talk about. The first solution is to double the single tax rate. And the second solution is that for two years, you just stop checking out small and medium businesses, and you don't get tired of them, and you don't help them live. [[Applause]] I also make decisions about the so-called tax compromise. Someone calls it tax amnesty, someone calls it a zero declaration. If we want to live in Europe, everyone has to declare their income and expenditure. Let's start with a clean letter: everyone will show what they have, what costs, what assets. After that, we should move with you to a general declaration of income, as in the countries of the European Union and the United States. Whoever made the money, who pays the taxes, who needs the help of the state, gets the benefits and subsidies. This is the principle of social and financial justice. I can't help but avoid people who have a lot of money, but they don't really want to pay them, it's a big business or, as they like to call them, oligarchs. Although after this crisis, I think you can translate them into a category of small and medium-sized businesses. As far as transfer pricing is concerned, dear friends. Government policy remains unchanged. In the past government, I've been taxed on big business, first of all, it's rents for useful fossils, it's rent on oil, on gas, and our policy on this issue remains unchanged. The one who earns more should make money to the state budget, which is the principle of social justice in the big business. We're willing to help big business break into markets, to compensate VAT, as we do, to avoid pressure on big business if big business is willing to help the country. Dear friends, it is time to help Ukraine. We've made 20 years, now we have to get out of this crisis together. That's why the Ukrainian Transfer Price Act, I'll remind you that it was adopted, but a little unacceptable. The government is amending the law to completely close all "holes" in the tax system that are linked through offshore companies, including metallurgy, chemistry and other profitable types of business. On VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have, to put it mildly, a problem with taxes on added value. In the last six months, we've done a lot on this issue of electronic and automatic VAT compensation. The position of the government is this: we have adopted the Law on Special Procedure for Administration of VAT, we will make changes to this law. We've done, we've done dozens of meetings with representatives of small, medium and large businesses, we need to do a little extrapolation. But the special procedure for the administration of the added value tax should start working: whoever has the right, who gets the VAT, who does not have the right, will not enter the system through court decisions and illegally withdraw billions of VAT from the budget. Briefly on government purchases. In our time, we failed to implement the Electronic Procurement Act. We will bring this law into Parliament, we have agreed with our European partners. So the system of e-procurement in the public sector will begin its work as the electronic commerce system at the Ministry of Justice began to operate on the property that was arrested. And, by the way, it proved to be very effective. Monopolies in the economy. The new Law on the Protection of Economic Competition and the Formation of a New Composition of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, primarily the new anticompetitive policy rules. The point is that if there is no competition, there is no growth; if there is a monopoly, there is conservation and no progress. Therefore, the Antimonopoly Committee should act as the economic prosecutor’s office in relation to those who abuse their position in the market. Export progress. Dear colleagues, you see in the presentation, we need to sign new free trade agreements. Of course, a basic agreement is an agreement with the European Union. To give you a figure, we have increased exports to the European Union by 12.3 percent over the last six months. In doing so, Russia continues to close down its markets. Regardless of the fact that we have a deal with them, regardless of the fact that we have a free trade zone, they will objectively do everything they can to destroy the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian State as such. You're not gonna make it! For new markets, this is the European Union. But we offer and start negotiations. By the way, Canada and Turkey have already begun the Free Trade Agreement. Next is Israel, the Persian Gulf, West Africa. These are our core markets where we want to sign the Free Trade Agreement. Now I'm saying it's not fast, sometimes years go by, but it'll be done. And in Ukraine, there's an Office of Trade Representative, by the way, an example that was created in the United States, which will be engaged in an active offensive policy to protect Ukrainian exports and protect Ukrainian national goods by all methods and means of the World Trade Organization. A system of government property management. When I talk about corruption to you, colleagues, corruption is not just in the police, in the courts, in the prosecutor's office. Corruption is in state companies. That's where the streams go. And from this rostrum, I would like to state publicly that there will be no political quota in the administration of public property. [[Applause]] We are transferring all public property objects into a fundamentally new governance structure. The first decision. The Ukrainian Act on Lists of Objects That Are Not Privatized. There are now more than one and a half thousand appointments in this law. They are not legally privatized, but are actually privatized by the management of these companies, which are appointed by the relevant ministries. So our position is to transfer more than a thousand two hundred public property objects to privatization, conduct transparent public privatization according to the principle of auction, put it into private hands and destroy corruption in the public sector. [[Applause]] As for the order of implementation of the shares, there will also be the implementation of these shares on international markets in order to raise the cost. We are objectively aware that in today’s conditions, when a war is fought in the country, it is not expensive to sell. So we're going to consult together and think about what we sell when we sell. But there must be extensive privatization in the country. The remainder of strategic objects is more than two hundred objects. There will be a series of holdings under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine that will be controlled by four large companies. And we're going to look for international management on a competitive basis. Professionals who are capable of managing property that can capitalize on property rather than plunder government property. Food policy. I want to make a separate point, and I also heard that you discussed yesterday the issue of a new food policy or a new agrarian policy. And it was as if the Ukrainian Land Market Act had been raised. If you're not even ready to discuss the Land Market Act, even for discussion, because there's no law yet. Okay, then the government claims that the coalition is not ready to consider the bill, so I officially removed the proposal for the Land Market Act from the program. [[Applause]] Dear friends! Come on, if the mood changes, say we write the law. As far as other relationships are concerned. In addition to what is provided for in the Coalition Agreement, I would like to point out separately that this is the adoption of the Long-Term Land Rental Act, which is the first. And second, at the end of the state's land cadastre. Now it's only 5 percent full without a first and a second, it's hard to go to the third market. In small and medium business. So now we're profitable, who is it? Generally, large agrarian companies and they have shown incredible growth. The only sector that has shown growth in the Ukrainian economy is 16 percent, that's agriculture. At the same time, we also had a long discussion and there are, dear friends, about what to do with small and medium-sized agrarian businesses. He's not just doing the economic function, he's also doing the social function. And that's hard for me to explain to our individual foreign creditors, but let's try. That's why we're offering small and medium-sized agrarian businesses to pass the law on local markets and allow them to implement their products inside Ukraine. And the second is they don't have any money. The world's banks won't give them money. That's why. There's going to be a resource in the budget, we're going to restore the interest rate on loans that appear to small agricultural enterprises. As for this kind of mainstream of Ukrainian economic policy in general, then? I appeal to you, honourable Members of Parliament, Ukraine should take over the leadership of the world's food markets. Someone has oil, someone has gas, and we have something we can't live without -- food. [[Applause]] Just a few words. Are you still tired, comrades? Oh, no? Okay. So just a few words of energy. You know, we have a real energy dependency. I'll start with gas. Nine months ago, there were as many as 5 billion cubic feet [5 billion cubic m] of gas in our shelters. That's my answer to those smart guys who are telling us how to run the country right now. You argued that the country was and is in an extremely difficult position today. The Russian contract was completely terminated. Debts for natural gas: 2013 is not calculated; $1 billion is the first quarter of 2014, another $1.5 billion. The three billion dollars received from Russia are unknown, but Russia wants us to present them for payment now. They said they went for energy. And in fact, the prospects for providing the country with gas, well, they weren't very careful. What has been done, and what do we do next? We were able to fully build a reverse gas supply system. 60 percent of the gas we get today comes from the countries of the European Union. And it's because five months ago we didn't give in to the pressure of the Russian President, who demanded without signing the agreement to accept what they called their price of almost $500, and then they'll think about the discount, that we've further saved half a billion dollars, not given Russia's Gazprom, but left in the budget the price difference between Russia's Gazprom and the price we're going to get for our European partners. It's an important step, but that's not enough, we need to move on to deversing energy supply sources. To this end, the past parliament (a number of times we voted on this law) passed a law on the modernization and operation of the gas transport system. There is a so-called third energy package, a colleague of the European Union. It's because of this energy package, because Russia refuses to comply with the requirements of the third energy package, which provides for the division of production, transportation and consumption of energy resources, that halted the construction of the South Stream. So, dear Russians, you're not going anywhere, you're going to be transporting Russian natural gas to Europe through Ukraine. What I'd like to say to everyone. [[Applause]] So the restructuring of the NAC into three companies and the involvement of an investor, a European or an American investor in the joint exploitation and modernization of the GTS. 49 percent in the operating company. The property of 100 percent of the GTS from the vaults remains state property. Separately, and I want to say it again in energy. There is no alternative to raising tariffs to the market. He doesn't exist. Therefore, the one who can pay will pay the market; the one who needs help will be compensated by the State for the benefits and subsidies. There's no other way. As far as the electricity system is concerned, we are on the path of integrating the Ukrainian energy system into the European energy system according to UCTE rules and procedures. A separate block on the modernisation of the Ukrainian GTS has already been signed by me last week, 150 million euros into the European Investment Bank and 200 million dollars into the European Development and Reconstruction Bank, the reconstruction of the Ukrainian GTS. We will continue to build interconnectors between Ukraine and the European Union. In useful fossils. We've changed the taxation system for energy companies. The rent has increased significantly and is ready to prove here in this Parliamentary Hall that there are profits in oil and gas production. But in order to increase oil and gas production, we did three ways of taxing energy companies. Retirement remains and a new tax scheme is in place to tax the actual proceeds of mining. These are three world models. And here in Parliament, when we change the Tax Code, we're ready to have a broad discussion with you about how to take revenue from an energy company on the one hand, and on the other hand, how to make it possible to drill and mine more. I'm going to do a little bit of energy efficiency. Dear colleagues, if we continue to burn gas and drive heat at the same temperature as it does without controlling the power of the TEC, no price of gas will save us, and no effective energy policy will save us. So energy savings and energy efficiency, less energy consumption. I'll remind everyone that Ukraine is first in the consumption of energy resources per dollar of gross domestic product. It's a good place to be, but I suggest we take this place on the other side. Social sphere. It's hypersensitive, it's too complicated. In the social sphere, we introduced taxes on high pensions, higher pensions six months ago, I recall. So our offer, our dear friends, is difficult, but it's right to transfer everyone to a single pension scheme and to the only principles of accrual and payment of pensions. This is the principle of social justice in pension insurance. The aids and subsidies also optimize all Soviet benefits. There will also be cuts, dear friends. Yeah. To grant benefits only to those who need them, and to those who receive them in an undeserved manner, they must be disposed of. The adoption of the Law on Address, Addressability, and Money - Taxation. It will also be in Parliament, and we will work with you on this. As far as the funds are concerned, they're another corruption component. Merge funds and cut fund spending by 600 million dollars, that's the first step. As far as I'm concerned, it's the Honorable Fellows, the Labour Code. Competition is anticipated when there is a competitive labour market. And so the new Labour Code with you will be adopted in 2015. By temporary transferees. Because it's also part of social policy. In general, we now have over 600,000 temporary displaced persons. Hundreds of millions of expenses. There are some who say that they don't pay their pensions, I mean. Let the Russians and their bandits get out of the Ukrainian land, and then the Ukrainians will receive pensions. We have to get them there somehow. So, Mr. Putin, you've made hostages to the Donbassians. Do the Minsk Protocol, take out the bandits, stop supplying weapons, Ukraine will regain control of its territory, and we will pay all the social benefits, but to the Ukrainians who are under Ukrainian control. [[Applause]] In education. The past Parliament passed the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which now remains the implementation of this law. There were lengthy discussions on how to reduce the number of educational institutions. Extermination doesn't work. That's why the new law provides for actual evaluation and evaluation of the quality of education, which will naturally lead to a change in the number of institutions, as well as financial autonomy of universities (and in the report on the Budget Code I will inform you about the financial autonomy of universities) and government procurement. Dear colleagues, there must be a clear formula here. And I'm addressing the members of the government right now from this rostrum. So we have to stop funding our acquaintances. We only finance what is needed for the Ukrainian economy. We need a specialty -- we ordered it, we don't need it -- so, sorry, let it go commercially. The state will not finance entrepreneurial projects in education. Now the laws that we need to adopt that we're not ready to do yet, but we're going to work are extra-school, pre-school, secondary and vocational education. This is going to be a complex Ukrainian Education Act, and I'm telling you right now, knowing that everyone is going to be asking for money for an education system, I'm saying, with money problems. That's why I'm asking: the optimization and efficiency of the education system. Let's do this first step. The health system. This means that what will be done in medicine is what worries people in the first place. You know, in Ukraine, we have double licenses and registrations for drugs and drugs. I will ask Parliament to pass the law on. changes to the Doctor's License Act. On medical devices, more specifically, the law is called where to cancel the registration of medicines and medical devices produced in the European Union, the United States, Canada, Australia, and Japan. [[Applause]] Less bribes will be carried by companies that sell these drugs and medicines. At this point, we're all going to long-term contracts with manufacturing companies. At the same time, we want to assign a purchasing function from the Ministry of Health, which is part of the Coalition Agreement. And to pass on the functions of purchasing vaccines, retrovirus drugs and so-called special drugs to the United Nations system is WHO and UNICEF. This practice has been in a number of countries, and it's essentially floating at the cost of a drug -- faster, more efficient and cheaper. With regard to the medical care system, the time has come for honourable national MPs to admit honestly: the constitutional standard of free medicine is simply a text on paper. There is no free medicine in Ukraine. All paid! [[Applause]] Therefore, the time has come for Ukraine to adopt the Law on Medical Insurance. And 8 percent, which. from the GDP that goes to the financing of medicine to be distributed through the health insurance mechanism. As far as cultural policy is concerned, as there is no money, the basis of cultural policy is the strategy of Ukrainian humanitarian policy, which Viacheslav Anatoliyevich is preparing and presenting to you, support for Ukrainian products through Ukrainian mecenati. The private sector needs to help Ukrainian culture. And I'm going to repeat this by answering whether there's any Ukrainian cultural product. Go and watch the movie "The Guide," and then you say we have a product or we don't have one. [[Applause]] Youth and Sports Policy foresees both the adoption of the concept of youth policy and the rebirth of national patriotic education in the country, and this is a task for both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education. Now, for the rest of us, dear colleagues, what's involved in getting out of the crisis. I publicly declare from this rostrum that, as from 2010 to 2014, the country's government debt has doubled from $30 billion to $70 billion, as the country has been looted and stretched out, as we are in a state of Russian military aggression, it is too difficult for us to get out of this crisis alone. Or let me put it another way, without the help of our international partners, it is virtually impossible to do so. This year we pressed everything we could squeeze. The economy is down 7 percent, the industry is down 10 percent, we're up 5 percent more taxes. At which point, I realize that it can't be like this forever. Because of fiscal pressure, you won't last long, but you have to pay pensions and wages. We get a total of nine billion dollars in financial assistance from the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial institutions. It's kind of a big number, isn't it? Fourteen billion dollars in debt and credit. The following year, in addition to the IMF programme, that's not what we said, it's the Financial Times, it's 15 billion U.S. dollars. In order to get financial assistance, to survive this difficult period of time, we need an international donor conference to prevent the default, to approve Ukraine's recovery plan at this donor conference, and to help our Western partners. Help is not going to be given. To help you, you need to carry out those tough reforms that you all talked about in the elections. Now it's time to press the buttons for these reforms, and they're clearly written. In order for Ukraine to get at least stable in 2016, we need to carry out hard packages to the budget and to tax, we need to get adequate international financial assistance and we need to work together and only act. To act, not to stand! We are expected by the Ukrainian people. There'll be no more chances. This opportunity must be used, it is in our hands and we are implementing it for the future of our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u10	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to questions. I'll remind you, we're up to 20 minutes away. So I'd like to sign up for a question. Each question will take 1 minute and 2 minutes to answer. Please sign up for the National MPs. Please, Swamp Grigory Mikhailovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u11	"Peter Dust Block," Grigory Smoky. I want to say one thing, Arsenij Petrovich, that whoever wrote new food policy here, or in a single sentence here, doesn't understand anything about the monetaryization of rent payments for land leases. In the village, we now know that almost 80 percent and 70 percent of the meat are farmed. And if you swap rent tomorrow, natural rent, for money only, it's a tragedy for the village and a tragedy for the state. So you just have to write it down, at the request of someone who rents his land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. I'm going to start with the agrarian sector about what were the agrarian tax proposals in general. Let me remind you: there's been a lengthy discussion about translating the entire APC into a general taxation system. Let me remind you that this is a key requirement of foreign creditors. They all feel that they should be within an equal framework. At my last meeting with them, I made a public statement that our coalition and our government have not been able to translate the entire agricultural sector into a general taxation system since 2016, because the VAT system is the only public support tool for the agricultural sector, there is nothing more. If, then, I'm also sad and curious when we're having a discussion with our foreign creditors, I say, "okay." Let's say you're right, let's clear up the agricultural subsidies, but we're moving to Europe. Really? Tell me, show me a European country that doesn't go through its agricultural sector? Show me an example. Everyone's totally doting. So despite this difficult discussion, we leave VAT for the agrarian sector. But I also publicly state to you that the VAT compensation for exports will be exclusively for agricultural producers. [[Applause]] Third. Enough to make the traders profit, that's all. We don't have the money to feed traders. The third thing about monetaryization, I heard you, yeah, there's another side of the coin. On the one hand, they say it's better to give in kind, and on the other hand, some people say, well, we're being fooled by price, or maybe you give us real money, and we figure out what the amount is and where we're going to spend it? That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u13	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u14	This is the subject of our discussion in the adoption of the law. Dear friends, there is no dogma in this program, because the program is not dogma. There'll be law, there'll be concrete text, we'll discuss it with you. Your position will be stronger -- no problem, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u15	Thank you. Please ask questions. Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich, Poltava region, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u16	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, please tell me there is no word in the draft of the new Government's Programme of Action on Housing Reform. Why, comment, please. And will the government address the issue of energy efficiency? And if he does, how does he do it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u17	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd like to draw your attention to the Government's Activity Programme. This is the 11th slide. And if you have a chance, open it, please. On the 11th slide, there are clearly two blocks: building and rebuilding housing according to new standards, including energy efficiency, and increasing energy efficiency through alternative sources. So objectively, of course, this is the priority of the government. There's just another problem. What is housing construction? If someone is building, they need to be built for something. After they've built it, we have to buy it for something. Because the banking sector is in an extremely difficult position, I say softly, and the consumer lending system is stopped today, so in the day-to-day order, the financial and banking sector is being stabilised to give a cheap loan to both the builder and the cheap loan to the person who is able to buy the apartment. Now the market is dead, and he'll be dead by the time the Russian tanks are here and the private investor gets here. And a private investor will come only after you and I have implemented a programme of complex but necessary economic reforms. So the building of housing in the program is planned, and all we have to do is do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u18	Next up is Sidorchuk Vadim Vasilovich, political party of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u19	Good afternoon. Sidorchuk Vadim, People's Front faction. Arsenius Petrovich, next question. There was a Committee of Customs and Tax Policy yesterday, and there was a discussion about the value added tax. Electronics. Here's a few words literally from this point of view. And motivation is the cleaning of tax pits. Please, more substantively.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have adopted the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. We suggest leaving a special tax administration system at the added cost. To make it. So listen, in the Coalition Agreement it's all right, we're going to do the Coalition Agreement. In order not to wash hundreds of millions and billions of taxes on added value from the budget, in the 15th year, an effective VAT administration system will be in place. The principle is next. You're a VAT payer, you've paid VAT, you're automatically compensated. No treasury, no taxes, no one. If you don't pay the VAT or you have problems with the 5th supplement to the declaration, we don't pay off the VAT, you just don't get it. So the basic principle: who is the payer, who pays and gets compensation in a vending machine; who is not the payer, or who wants to do shadow schemes, simply does not compensate VAT. As part of this project, we're going to have to make changes to this law. Because I accept that four months ago, there were moments crossed. For example, the moment is about 30 billion dollars in special accounts for the administration of VAT. I realize it's not real. So we're going to take down this rule, and we're going to take down the four other standards that we were asked to take off business to make this law work effectively. I'll ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u21	The next one is Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich, the Block of Petra Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u22	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, two short but in my opinion important questions. First. I did not find a position in the Government's Activity Programme on creating a transparent non-profit gas market in Ukraine. Like our commitment to the 3rd energy package and to the European Energy Society. Moreover, the government's decisions raise such questions from the point of view of monopolizing the sale of the gas market by Naftogaz of Ukraine, that is, what is the perspective and how does the government see the solution? And the second question is, government management and wages. Because in the system that we have today, the issue of corruption is extremely relevant and how the government also sees the solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Dombrowski, thank you for asking. As far as energy is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the Cabinet of Ministers programme, the foundation is the implementation of the third energy package. And so NAC Naftogaz Ukraine will be reorganized, divided into 3 companies: Ukrainian Gas Transport Networks, Ukrainian Repositories, and NAK will remain like a gas company. Now, as far as I'm concerned. What's a gas market? You've raised the right question. The market will appear when everyone pays the same market price. Why did the government decide to temporarily make NAC Naftogaz Ukraine a monopoly on the sale of gas to industrial enterprises? I'll also speak to you openly. What was done? NAK Naftogazu Ukraine has given consumers who pay the least and the cheapest price -- the population and the Tesses, which are not even counted. At the same time, we take loans, we attach gas, we pay interest as a state on these loans. The private sector has taken on several dozen industrial companies and normally earns 7,000 dollars per thousand cubic metres of gas. We sell one-and-a-half dollars and we pay 110 billion dollars, they sell seven dollars, and they're good. The time has come, as I stated from this rostrum, to be fair. Let's go through a difficult phase, they've made a little bit of money, now they're going to make money from a state company. We partially compensate for the damage, we go to market prices, and everyone is happy to pay the same prices, and there's going to be a full market. Where you want to go, take it. As for the "where do you want to go" principle. So I'm also officially saying that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine has granted permission to all companies that want to buy gas when they import, to buy it where they want it. We're going to transport all the natural gas that was purchased for import by any private company. Now it's on pay. You raised the right question and I'm also saying that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u24	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u25	Just raise your salary in the 15th year, well, you're welcome. I won't. But in order for the official to feel otherwise, what should we do? We're optimizing the public sector network by 10 percent and all that's left in the pay fund is left there to increase the wages for the entire public sector. This is the formula proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u26	Thank you. Boyko Olena Petrovna, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u27	Thank you. Helen Boyko, People's Front. Please pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u28	Dear Arsenia Petrovich. Now, the coalition factions are having a lively discussion of the government agenda. And you remember that when we formed the Cabinet of Ministers, we have no minister to support a faction of the coalition. I have a question for you. Please tell me, do all of us ministers of the coalition factions actively participate in the preparation of the program? Whether there are those who have not worked in this direction or have abstained from supporting the government’s program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u29	Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. I'd like to report how the government program was written. And by the way, when you voted here for the Cabinet of Ministers, I was also publicly declared. It was the idea that on the same day that the Cabinet of Ministers was formed, we would approve a government action programme, which was written not by the government, but only by the Prime Minister. And it would look like the government is in a hurry to approve the program because it gives immunity for a year. For me, it's not a year's work, it's a year's work for the future. So we gathered all the members of the government, not just for a few hours, but for a few days, we all wrote our blocks. Then, on behalf of the government the other night, as editor, I sat down and redacted the night, approved the government to all members of the government in the morning, and transferred it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the decision is made unanimously. He asked all members of the coalition government to report the factions. If something needs to be fixed, we will, of course, fix it. But to withdraw the discussion, yesterday at the faction leaders' meeting, there was a proposal to add a coalition agreement to the government program. We agree. And this morning you got this, the addition to the government program is a coalition agreement. Nothing sterile or final can be done. Life is not perfect. It's, you know, life, it's not that simple and it's not perfect. So the program is approved. I look forward to supporting the programme to all members of the new democratic European coalition. What needs to be rectified, let's fix it on the march. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Fishbuck Ivan Petrovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u31	Ribak Ivan, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, there is no word in the program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers on the protection of the environment. Forestry, conservation, and so forth. And the second question. Not a word about the social protection of military personnel returning from the zone of anti-terrorist operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u32	Your Honor, I would very much like to ask you, if you have the opportunity, to read the program carefully. And I would appreciate it. Please read the first page of the program, which clearly describes the social security and rehabilitation of ATO participants and military personnel. In particular, I'm going to point out what was created in the Cabinet of Ministers by the State Agency for Veterans and Participants in the Anti-Terrorism Operation. They register directly, they're directly involved in the social rehabilitation of our boys. As far as your environmental question is concerned. That's a good question. It's in the block where the new Codex on Nadra is being adopted. But I realized that you must have written the text of a coalition agreement on forests, well, that's how I felt at least. Because you've just quoted the text of a coalition agreement that provides for environmental issues. It's written there. You, as an MP, have the right to legislative initiative. The government is ready to support any legislative initiative aimed at improving the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u33	Please, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u34	Radical Party, Sergey Melniczuk. I have a question for Project Wall. Where will the border of Luhansk and Donetsk regions go, as you have determined? And does another structure have to be produced, because the building industry itself is a corrupt sector? Perhaps if you build, will there be enough money in the budget, and where will you take it? Could it be a later construction period, and could it be an order for the Foreign Service? The rest of the time is Andrew Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u35	You cannot pass part of the statement from the factions. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u36	Thank you for your question. Once again, I would like to point out that the state is obliged to have borders. This is an obligation. The state cannot exist without a border. You and I paid the price for 20 years of delaying the demarcation and delimitation of the state border. And this price is a partial loss of control over part of Ukrainian territory. And that price is thousands of human casualties and Russian military aggression. So it's the right thing to consider money. That is why we made the next decision. Learned the world’s experience. The State’s Foreign Service is now dealing with the matter of establishing a state border in Ukraine. Their function is not to build a border (and this is their offer), their function is to protect the border. They looked at how the Americans were, and how they were in part of the Europeans. This goes into a separate office, which is directly responsible for the construction work. Now it's the sum of money. We wrote optimistically for four years. Where should the border go? I'll tell you where the border should go. Donetsk and Lugansk are the territory of Ukraine. Like Crimea, Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u37	Please, by the way, Irina Igorovna, the Self Help Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Victoria Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u39	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The Self-Help Union has the following proposals for the Cabinet of Ministers to take into account. First. During the first half of 2015, ensure that an address subsidy system is in place for all low-income groups in connection with the introduction of gas prices for consumers to a single level. The other one. In accordance with the coalition agreement, establish a standard for enterprises of all forms of property for the use of nadrama. The energy sector taxation system should be based on international standards, as you pointed out, which take into account the characteristics of country taxation. hydrocarbons, including gas, and should stimulate the increase in the production of hydrocarbons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u40	Thank you very much for your suggestions. You probably have a better editor than we have on the program, because we have it on the program, but something different. It is written as follows: Detinization of the mining of useful fossils and the introduction of transparent and fair competition rules for the development of yields of beneficial fossils through open auctions and the adoption of Ukrainian law, the Nadra Code. So basically, I'm ready for any editorial regulation, if necessary. Now for benefits and subsidies. You're entitled to a thousand percent. We raise prices and tariffs, we are obliged to provide addressability. That's why the program provides, and that's what I'm stressing, the adoption of the Law on Addressability and the Monnization of Aids. Because otherwise people who have nothing to pay for, they just won't pay. We have no right to do that. Those who are underfunded must receive financial assistance from the State for the appropriate benefits and subsidies to cover the difference in tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, we're running out of time for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u42	Dear friends, if you have any questions, come and visit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u43	But I do, you know. One minute. Or, or, or. One minute. I'd like to add five more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u44	Come on, five more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u45	We've got it. Dear friends, dear friends, now the non-fractionals will have the right to speak. There's a question. We've been with you for 20 minutes. Now we see that there's still wanting to make a statement, and I'm going to take another five minutes, and we're trying to be, well, as tight as possible, okay, and we're going to have a turn. However, I would like to point out to the national MPs that, according to the Rules, part of the statement cannot be referred to another speaker. Please add 5 minutes. And welcome to Solowy Yuri Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u46	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, you said that there is a serious external challenge in Ukraine today, a serious external challenge, but there is also a tremendous internal challenge and the threat is ours, the poverty of Ukrainian people and the poverty of Ukrainian people. In every civilized country in the world, the government is judged on clear criteria. And that's why I have three specific questions for you. First. A year later, how much per capita income in Ukraine will rise in the equivalent of the US dollar? The other one. How many new jobs will be created in Ukraine? And the third. What would the U.S. currency rate be for the Ukrainian bracelet? That's part of the question. And the second part of the question. How do you feel about the Roadbuilding Economics Promotion Program? For example, I'm on my own from Periphery, and I want to tell you that people don't have jobs there because there's no roads there, in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u47	Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u48	And this is an area that is touristic. How do you feel about this too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u49	I'm answering your questions very clearly, not by three points, but by one. The 2015 task is to survive. I'm not going to tell you here that there's going to be a populism that everyone will live long and happy, that it's going to take 15 years to stay out of salary and pensions so that the percentage of unoccupied citizens doesn't go up. That's the job. As far as the roads are concerned. So the roads also have to be built for something, somewhere you have to take the money. In order to build contracts, we have a system that sells gasoline, we get excise, and part of the excise is going to finance the Krauttodor. I have a great desire for a pair of Germans who know how to build roads. We'd better build smaller, but better, and we're not going to patch them up every month.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs, I give my word according to the record we made in accordance with the regulations. But I'd like to make it easy for everyone who asks questions, including answers, to be as concise as possible, then we can ask more questions and give more answers. Okay? Thank you. Please, Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, the Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u51	Please pass the word to my colleague Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u52	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I have a few questions. I wanted to ask you: can you confirm, as Prime Minister, the preservation of taxes for agricultural producers, as recorded in the coalition agreement before 1 January 2018, first? The other one. I didn't see, really, any line on one-man farming. These are the people who feed the country, four and a half million families, this is the food security of the country. We need to create a legislative base, legitimize them through family farms. And most importantly, you said agrarian markets, they need to be given the status of the manufacturer. The third question is, it's all in the same context. I have not seen a single word about the development of rural areas. On the constant development of rural areas, where diversification, where multiplicity. The fourth question is in this context. Arsenius Petrovich, under long-term contracts. Believe me, it's administrative, it's coerced by the owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u53	Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u54	After the long-term signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u55	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u56	Coercion, that's Ukrainian coercion. With regard to the new food policy, I would also like to ask the national deputies of Ukraine, indeed. Well, I know you're busy, but if it's not difficult, just read what's written. In small and medium business. It's a small and medium-sized business, isn't it? Farms, right? For me, it's a small and medium-sized business, when you have a small land plot, when you have a small tractor and you process your land. It's definitely not a big business. So we have the adoption of the Local Markets Act and programs to support small and medium-sized businesses. And from the rostrum, I said that it's not as much economic as it is political and social issues as it is venerable, because 30 percent of the citizens live in the country. And we're going to have to give money and feed it so that people can live there. Because it doesn't sound pompous, but the Ukrainian soul is coming from the village, which is why the councils and Stalin were fighting the village. That is why we are obliged to help him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u57	Next question. Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna, Self Help Union. I'd like a brief, more questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u58	I want to give the word to Ostrich Tetya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u59	Aunt Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u60	Good afternoon. Dear Arsenius Petrovich. According to the Government Programme that you have proposed, it is a concern that the burden of filling the budget will be passed on to the population, particularly by taxing housing of any area, by introducing a cost control method with significant overtaxation tax. And I want to ask you a question. Where are the de-offshoring measures of the economy? Why does even the transfer pricing control, according to the proposed program, which I read carefully, stand at 2016? Where are the measures taken to promote investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u61	Madam MP! As far as fear is concerned, I recognize the principle: “Do not weep, do not be afraid, do not ask. With regard to your transfer pricing issues, it is clear that we will introduce the Transfer Price Act into Parliament. All large companies will pay taxes and all tax avoidance schemes will be eliminated together. As far as I'm concerned. 2015, 15th. He should have started working since he was 16, and that was the offer. If you take it in the first quarter, I'll raise you and say you support the de-ofshoring of the Ukrainian economy. As far as taxes are concerned. Well, I told you before, we've raised taxes on all the big business, and we'll go that way -- tax justice: you make more money -- you pay more. As far as a package of complex economic laws is concerned. I can tell you very clearly that it's going to be very difficult for everyone, for all social classes of the population, for everyone. 2015 needs to survive, survive, form a base for 2016 to become the year of Ukrainian economic stability. Thank you, dear friends. Please proceed to the discussion of the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u62	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Next, the honourable colleagues, according to the order of the discussion that we have agreed with you, the report is foreseen. From the head of the committee, I ask you to come to the rostrum of Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich, head of the committee of profile. Next, the factions and groups, that's what we're going to take up to 30 minutes to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished Prime Minister, members of the government and honourable national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, submitted to the Supreme Council, on December 10, a programme of activities for the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as a draft decree of the Supreme Council for registration number 1330. Yesterday, December 10th, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting decided to approve the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and supported the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the programme be approved and voted in favour of the decision. Mr. Head, for the transcript, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this morning there were two letters signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine requesting that editorial changes be taken into account on the government's activity pages 2, 8, 11 and 12. The text of the program and editorial changes is given to you both in the hall and in electronic form. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u64	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, the speech, the committee head's report has just taken place, and now we're going to move on to the factions and groups, so we're going to take 30 minutes with you. After the factions and groups, the non-fractional three deputies, as we agreed. But I would like to consult with you, dear colleagues, in five minutes we should have a break, according to the Rules. I would suggest that we continue our work, not announce a recess now, and, before the Prime Minister's closing word, we announce a 30-minute recess at the request of factions, coalitions. They will hold further consultations, and then we will return to the final decision room. If there is no such objection, then we can work on such a rule. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please register with the factions and groups in 30 minutes. I'd like you to sign up, dear colleagues. Factions and groups. Please, People's Front, Lunchenko Valeriy Valeriyovich. People's Front, please. Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. Then we'll do, after the performances, a non-faction registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u65	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Your Honor Mr. Head, Your Honorable Colleagues! We are now discussing with you the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of the country against which aggression is waged, the aggression of a strong, violent enemy. And of course, this problem, this challenge -- it actually focuses on the programme that's being prepared. This is the task of strengthening the country's defence sector, this is the task of mobilizing resources, this is the task of liberating our country's territory. Of course, it has to be stressed that even under conditions of war against Ukraine, even in a complex socio-economic situation, the main objective of the Cabinet of Ministers in its programme is to prepare and lead the country on the path of European integration, and not once in the future, and to prepare all the preconditions for Ukraine to apply for membership in the European Union for two years. This is a very serious responsibility and a very serious task that the Cabinet of Ministers takes on itself. At the same time, honourable colleagues, when it is said that not all issues are covered, it is understandable because the government programme is a framework document that outlines the main directions of the Cabinet of Ministers. All these basic directions should be detailed by ministries and departments. It is they who should provide details of the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers program, and what is important is that the Coalition Agreement, which in the preamble (I hope everyone reads the document given by the Cabinet of Ministers) becomes an integral part of the government program. Once again, I call your attention, dear colleagues, - the Coalition Agreement and all the positions that have been taken into it become an integral part of the government's agenda. At the same time, it is absolutely necessary to continue to work towards the main tasks that will be pursued by the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, I'm sure all the factions will make suggestions for the details of the program. That's what we have to offer. This applies to the expansion of the income part of the budget. I would like to ask, fellow honourable Members, to point out that the previous Parliament has adopted a law that allows the courts to decide and condemn criminals in absentia when they hide from Ukrainian justice. And for this very purpose, dear colleagues, it is necessary for the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, our judicial institutions at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u66	Let me finish, I'd like to ask the speakers to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u67	Thank you. The sentences of Yanukovich and his team would begin to be handed down to those criminals who were washing billions of dollars off the budget. It's a resource that's consistent with the IMF loan. And when we begin to carry out our duties, when the courts start not accepting bribes but sentencing criminals, we will be able to provide an additional income for our budget. This, by the way, applies to those who support the terrorist organizations of the LND, the DNR, that is to say those who promote separatism, that there should also be convictions, confiscation of property, accounts, and not only in Ukraine, but also abroad. This will be a colossal resource that will allow us to ensure that our joint programmes are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u68	Thank you, distinguished speaking colleagues, I would like to ask everyone to follow the rules, because once the performance has been four minutes, for justice's sake, everyone who will speak will get exactly the same conditions. Please, I'd like to invite Peter Dusty's Block, Oleg. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u69	I'd like to follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u70	Dear Chairman, Honourable Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues! Peter Prashenko's Block considered the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and remembers that this is one of the constitutional acts that are necessary for the beginning of the work of the Ukrainian government. To be honest, we consider this program to be imperfect. It does not reflect the coalition's desire to get a plan of action for the implementation of a coalition agreement based on which the majority was actually created and hired by the Ukrainian government. [[Applause]] We'd like to see in the program what's going to lead to the implementation of the coalition agreement of the MPs. Any program, as we know, provides for terms and executions, which we also don't always find in this program. Nevertheless, we believe that the situation in which the country is located needs a solution today. We heard Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk, who had sufficiently deciphered the many issues that had been formulated in the program. So our proposal is to write clearly and unambiguously in the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Activities on the front page of the introductory page, and unequivocally, "the coalition agreement is an integral part of this programme." The coalition agreement is a document of more than 60 pages that clearly determines what this Parliament and this government should do. We can even see that more than 40 new laws are being planned in the Government’s Work Programme. That is why both documents are crossed. One goes into Kabmin's authority, the other goes into some form of government authority. This means that we are one body that is to give the Ukrainian people a new normal and just life. So our proposal: the government will now make the right decision, because we cannot take it for you, to correct this document by recording the validity of the Coalition Agreement as part of this program. After that, we will be ready to vote in favour and allow European reforms to take place in favour of the new Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help. Please. Thank you for your time, Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u72	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We chose the government with you and gave him credit. And today is the first action of the government that we have received. I want to thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your very high professional performance, because he has completed this program 60 percent of your government. Without this presentation, this program simply does not answer the hundreds of questions posed as a task in the Coalition Agreement. Therefore, we will support our joint coalition proposal to make it clear in the preamble that the Coalition Agreement is an integral part of this process. Second, reverend. [[Applause]] Thank you. We would like, dear colleagues, to emphasize yet more very specific things. In general, this program is missing sections such as infrastructure and transport, utilities and housing. We leave behind a whole field of local self - government, which is the foundation of the state today. What is more, we are now in Winnice and Zaporozhye, where we see the crisis of local authority. You and I should address all our views today to local communities and help them get rid of a power that hasn't changed in many places. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! They, local communities, must choose their new authority as soon as possible. And to do that, we have to bring about rapid constitutional changes. Defense. Not up to 5 percent, but 5 percent! [[Applause]] We're willing to circumcise a lot of things, but defense can't. And second, Reverend Prime Minister, the second branch that should not be circumcised. Yes, it has to work more effectively, it's a sector of secondary education. She's always been underfunded all her years. So you can't touch secondary education, it's critical. This is power in the country 20 years from now. [[Applause]] Second question, anti-corruption. Honorary colleagues, as recorded in the program, cannot form an anticorruption office by January 2015. And it should be formed by January 2015. In energy, I thank you very much, you've really enlightened this situation that was planned there. So, ladies and gentlemen! We are ready to support this program today. But serious additions must be made there. And thank you for making them today. And after they're done,
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u73	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u74	We're all together, I emphasize, professional partners who have shared responsibility for the country. We're going to work on the implementation of this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u76	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government! Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction is grateful that we have already received a number of additions to the Government's Programme of Action, which are directly in line with the coalition agreement. That is, that the market of the earth, the issue that we discussed for quite a while when we were writing a coalition agreement, was taken as a necessity for agrarian reform. Because unfortunately, in the face of today's economic crisis, the imperfections of rural relations, the introduction of the land market, it would actually be a return to feudal relationships, not a way forward. That is why we would insist, and we support our coalition colleagues, that an integral part of the government’s agenda should be an integral part of the coalition agreement. This is actually a document that gave life to the government, a document that makes it very clear to implement all the principles laid down in the coalition agreement. And that's why we'd like to clearly caution against the key position of the coalition agreement on the agricultural sector. We have determined that by January 1, 2018, there will be no change in the single-sector taxation system in Ukraine, which even in crisis conditions has brought out everything possible (this agricultural sector) there will be no change. That is exactly what the coalition agreement says. And we insist that the government's programme of activities be clearly in line with this position of the coalition agreement. Third. Our colleague gave little attention to individual farming in the countryside. Sadly, some 4 million of our fellow citizens are neither small entrepreneurs nor medium entrepreneurs. They don't fall under this category, because all these years we haven't actually given a key answer to the question: how do these people work, how do they pay the single farm tax, and how are they going to get a pension that can't even count on them? That is why we insist that this principle be taken into account. Third. For us, the question that applies to local self-government is very fundamental to the financial capacity to secure local self-government in energy and energy supply. It is very important that we move to European Union standards and implement energy policies that we cannot move away from the place without. And last but not least. This is national security. It is the standards of the European Union and NATO that will enable us to move forward. That's why our proposal is to support the proposal for a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u77	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u78	For 30 minutes, those key points will continue to go back to voting on the Government’s Programme of Action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u80	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs! You and I understand very well that today, aside from the military threat, we have the very main problem in the country, which is the socio-economic situation of our fellow citizens. Nearly 2 million unemployed today, nearly half of the people live on less than 2,000 dollars a month. Prices have risen about twofold, since we are bound to foreign goods, imports. How can we do this? We understand very well that this cannot be solved by the IMF's loans. With IMF loans, we can only survive. And in the Government Action Programme, we have to predict not only the survival of the country, but how we will restore a strong Ukraine. In order for Ukraine to be strong, we have to rebuild the Ukrainian industry, protect the national producer, create in the state conditions under which the investor comes to Ukraine, create jobs here, produce production, pay taxes. Because as coalition partners, we ask and insist that we take into account in the Government's Action Programme the principles that we have set up in the coalition agreement, including the development of a long-term development strategy and its implementation in high-tech manufacturing, the development of industrial infrastructure, the establishment of stimulating features for the new production of research centres. The key position is to establish more favourable conditions in Ukraine for the business of new intellectually bridge business production compared to other countries, with fiscal, regulatory, educational, customs and all other policies. Because if we don't create these conditions, we will always live in debt and, like today, export raw materials, export talented professionals abroad, and take loans to the IMF and buy ready-made products from other countries. That's why we're proposing to bring these things into the government's Action Programme. We support the proposal of our coalition colleagues to make the Coalition Agreement an integral part of the Government’s Action Programme because it is much more detailed and specific on many important issues. And lastly, I would like to emphasize. on the increase in tariffs, and. A very important question, and we see in the Government's Programme of Action an increase to the market level of tariffs, which will increase the income of energy companies. Of course, it's important -- energy companies' income -- but we're worried about people paying less than they can with energy service contracts. That is why I would like to provide the Government's Action Programme with support for specific implementation of energy service contracts. Yesterday, my colleagues and I passed the appropriate bill (1313) and we count on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u81	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, we therefore propose to take our proposals into account and to support the Government's Action Programme in a more sophisticated manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Please give the next speech, "The Will of the People" by Derek Andrey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u84	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! The 2015-2016 programme was widely and loudly announced by the government as a road map of reforms to develop the country during this difficult time. Whole programs are certainly high, but what we see by text. All government policies have been able to fit in on page 12. There's a nice set of declarations and formulations. But when there are no figures on these words, it means that there is no specificity, which means that there is no responsibility for the result of the government. Some of the stated goals were already to be achieved in 2014, and the government only submits them as a promising and ambitious issue — social policy — to only a half-page at all. The government does not mention an increase in social security for socially vulnerable citizens, at least taking into account inflation rates, since it made more than 20 percent during 2014. The cost of the consumer basket has also increased by more than 20 percent. Tariffs and services took off 20 to 100 percent. Instead, the government offers nothing in the social sphere except the elimination of social benefits, job cuts, and the development of non-state pensions. How can millions of Ukrainian citizens survive? What can be done to help farmers who suffer more than anyone else? In another equally important economic policy issue for the country, the biggest feature is that the government proposes to double the export volume of domestic goods by 2019. However, it does not point out which sectors will see such growth and, above all, what concrete steps the government plans to take to create a favourable investment climate for the new economic policy. It's about reducing taxes from 22 to 9, but it's not. The People's Will MPs support the need. actions and changes to deal with the crisis and will support the individual positions of the Government's Action Programme, but we urge the government not to take the wrong and wrong path of populism. The changes that the Ukrainian people so expect cannot be made on solid slogans and declarations. We insist on the inclusion in the agenda and the timely adoption of decree 1304 on the size of the minimum wage and minimum wage in 2015, the authors of which are the deputies of our group. According to the regulations, the minimum wage and subsistence minimum for social groups should be increased by no less than the projected inflation rate for 2014-2015. With all due respect to you, Arsenija Petrovich, a really high appreciation of your work and the President's work and effort in an unforgivable time, your meaningful speech, however, the group may vote in favour of the program.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u85	Please let me finish. One minute, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u86	Only when changes are made, because without specifics, we will not vote for it. We will not vote for the declaration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u87	Thank you. Next, please, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, faction of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u88	Honorable Presidium, Government of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! The Opposition Block faction received a document yesterday called the Government's Activity Program, studied it in detail, and it has its own position on the passage of this document. We think that this is essentially a declaratory document, the main purpose of which is to go through Parliament and create another pyar action. Because about six months ago there was the same presentation, and with the same problems, and with the same tasks from the then government in the then parliament. And the second reason is to try to get the right immunity so that a year can be worked without the threat of dismissal. The first part of this document, in our study, gets a negative assessment because it's abounding with vivid slogans that have little to do with the real situation of the economy. Suffice it to say that the point of increasing the export of domestic production in five years is not doubly supported by any economic calculations. A very controversial one is the closing point of the damage mines in the 32nd. Because compared to that coal-purchasing operation in South Africa, any mine in our country is super-hibitive compared to the garbage that was brought into our country. On the other hand, the social program is very wide and has a very practical meaning. We have the impression that it was written under the direction of the International Monetary Fund mission, and there are very practical specific tasks: the elimination of benefits, the freezing of pensions, the reduction of funding for education and medicine. That is, what the International Monetary Fund has always demanded, and in a simple decision, that means the way to impoverish our people. At the same time, the key and hot problems of our economy, such as supporting the stability of the national currency and real lending of the economy, the availability of credit, remained out of the government's attention. The opposition bloc won't vote for the government programme, but that doesn't mean we won't give an alternative to society. The following week, the opposition government will start to create an alternative program and society will be able to compare it. Thank you for your attention1
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u89	Please, Economic Development Group, Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich. Hometicist Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u90	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable national deputies, today the government presented its program. In fact, well-written things, nice illustrations, and there are a few "buts." First of all, a number of initiatives are simply copied from the last government programme, for which the Cabinet of Ministers has not reported, by the way. Some of the reforms we have heard about nine months in a row have not been prepared. For example, much has been said and proposed decentralization, but no steps have been taken in this direction. Although one step was taken on financial decentralization, Mr. Schlapak added a bill to Parliament that did not even raise 100 votes. And that law could not be called Financial Decentralisation, it could be called Total Centralisation Financial. So to expect regions to have more resources to meet their priority needs and development this year, of course, we can't. Secondly, the government's programme is not backed by specific bills to implement the planned reforms. There is also no explanation for these changes. Meanwhile, various government ideas are emerging to reduce social security in the government’s draft budget for the following year, which proposes the introduction of paid hospital meals, the cancellation of scholarships, the cancellation of travel benefits, and the reduction of the number of budget workers. And in the Cabinet of Ministers it was confirmed that such intentions were really being considered. Can this be called real reforms? Big question. Thirdly, we're confident that we can write a government programme for the following term, but people are interested in another: what is being done now, what the government and management of the National Bank is doing to stabilize the national currency. Since the 8th anniversary we already have 17 dollars on the street of the American currency, at the same time rising food prices, housing services -- and not a word about rising pensions, rising wages and scholarships. What does the government do to get out of the energy field? When will they stop turning off the light? Not a word about it. Do government officials know about the problem that exists in the country? So ask the major MPs about it. We've got our receptionist, public receptionist complaints. When will real housing-communal reform be implemented? What is the government planning to do, or prevent, the humanitarian disaster in the East? There's not a word in the program about it. So the Economic Development Group made a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u91	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u92	does not support the government programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as we have determined with you, we now have the performances of non-fractional national MPs. Three national deputies in one minute. But I want to use my right. Since the factions have taken 1 minute from the factions, I think it'll be fair if we give two minutes from the non-fractional three speakers. I'm asking the non-fractional to sign up for the performance. Three first appearances, two minutes. Please, National Deputy Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich, please. Next up is Lechchenko. Yuri Volodymyrovich, please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u94	Dear Society, Arseni Petrovich, you have to shorten what you want, but in 2015 the National Battalion of Nazgwardia will receive 8,000 dollars. This is my first request. I won't go on. You understand that. The other one. You said on this stand that if the coalition doesn't have understanding and unanimity support for the launch of the land market, you're going to delete it from the government's plan of action. I'm asking you to do this, not tell me what you're going to do, and then you won't do what you've done. On October 16th, the Book of Illustration Act came into force, and on the 20th, as a government official and the first person of the government to be the first deputy of the service, who is said to be the successor of the State, you appoint a regional with an 8-year internship. I have a huge request for you to stop assigning regions to the key posts of the first and second categories of government. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u95	Please, Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. The next is the National Deputy Bublik Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the distinguished Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers, the distinguished Ukrainians who are watching us today and listening to the presentations of our Program of Government. You know, there's one major problem with this government program. Yes, there are IMF requirements, there are requirements of other foreign creditors, that we have to balance the budget, that we have to reduce the budget deficit, that we have to have balanced state finances, that have to have reduced state spending. It's all right. But it may be necessary to think about where to fill the budget and how to fill it. Because today we've heard about the total reduction, we've heard about the privatization of state enterprises today, we've heard about the absolute reduction in social expenditure, the state apparatus. We're canceling out, that's all. There won't be a state tomorrow, there won't be pensions tomorrow, there won't be scholarships tomorrow, social benefits and so on. But somehow we haven't heard anything today about a real fight against private monopolies, a real demonization of the economy that is strangling our economy today. We haven't heard anything today about the cancellation of the double taxation agreement with the Republic of Cyprus, so let's cancel this agreement. You know, the first thing the government is proposing is to cancel this deal with the Republic of Cyprus, and then we'll talk about a shortcut. We haven't talked about the real fight against transfer pricing today. Because the law works now, it works, but somehow nobody does, it's the law. So maybe before we talk about cuts, before we cut benefits, before we cut education expenses, let's start with an oligarchic class. Let's deal with the shadow profits of the oligarchic class, deal with the offshores, and then we'll talk about any abbreviations. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u97	Next speaking, please, Yuri Vasilovich Bublik, Poltava region, is non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u98	I'd like a word with Volodymyr. Please pass the word to Volodymyr Parasuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u99	Glory to Ukraine! Arseny Petrovich, it's very sad that at such a difficult time for Ukraine, I don't know, you're going to win yourself the time that you tell us all that we have to survive. And in a year you'll be out and you'll say we survived. Ukraine is both so and so, whether with or without you, we are not living the first year. First. I would like to say that when you talk about 5 percent of GDP in defense, please delete the word for law enforcement. You believe we've had enough feeding pecans all over Ukraine. The other one. I would ask you to contact your Cabinet of Ministers, namely, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Arsen Awakov, and tell him to behave with dignity at committee meetings. He did not act hamisticly toward the head of one of these committees. Because if you forget about ranking, who is the minister and where the committee head stands, we can quickly remind you. And the next. We have a lot of problems in the country, and to be honest, I wanted to give you a simple example. The whole country is talking about decentralization of power. I haven't heard a word about the first steps here, and that's very sad. You want to save money in Ukraine, Arsenij Petrovich, stop printing color tracts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u100	Dear National Deputies! The procedure for discussing this issue has been completed with you. Since there is a requirement for a coalition to declare a recess, before that, I would like to instruct the Standing Committee to hold a meeting at this recess on the Supreme Council Order, which deals with the issue of the formation of the Personal Composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are appropriate decisions, they need to be considered on the committee. Therefore, I would like to ask the first deputy chairman of the committee, also the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to hold this meeting together and to make proposals for a vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would also like to announce a 30-minute recess at the request of the coalition. At one o'clock we return to the room to continue our consideration of the issue of order. Thank you, fellow believers. 30-minute break. I ask you to enter the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Please take your jobs. We'll keep working. The factions held an appropriate, coalition factions, an appropriate meeting. All our further steps have been spoken. I'd like to take my seats. We'll continue our work. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats in the hall. We continue our work. The faction leaders would like to invite deputies to their jobs. Dear National Deputies! We continue our work. We're going to announce a break at the request of a coalition faction. I've just had a working meeting with the coalition faction leaders. We agreed on further action to address the Government's Action Programme. And for my closing remarks, I invite you to the rostrum of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. Please, Arseny Petrovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u102	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, Mr. Head! Thank you for a fairly productive and serious meeting in your office with the heads and representatives of the factions. And as a result of our discussion, the government has just made a decision that is fully in line with the proposal made by the faction leaders. I would like to announce this decision and the changes that the government has made to your consideration of the final approval of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Programmes of Action. Our previous option was to add the Coalition Agreement to the Government's Action Programme. We support the proposal to define in the introduction: "The Coalition Agreement, which is an integral part of the Cabinet of Ministers' Action Programme." [[Applause]] The second question. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize the discussion of the Land Market Act. In view of the lack of political consensus, it has been deleted in accordance with the text of the Cabinet of Ministers’s Programme of Action. Third. It has also been decided that the changes to the Tax Code, the Budget Code and the new Ukrainian State Budget Act should be completed by the end of this year and amended accordingly by the calendar plan. We have to enter the new year with a new budget and a new tax system. Finally, regarding the implementation of the Program of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As we have a coalition government, such as the joint responsibility of the entire coalition to the country, and the respective ministers, together with the coalition, should bear this responsibility, every minister to implement the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action of the United States Coalition Agreement approves an appropriate implementation plan for both the government and our Coalition Agreement. With this in mind and in line with the decision taken, please support the government’s programme of activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenia Petrovich. I want to point out that, of course, it's a difficult time today, and we have to act. And what's important is that, when I look at this issue, and now in my office, I think there's a full understanding of further cooperation. And the Government's Action Programmes, including the Coalition Agreement, are the basis for the next action plans, including the formation of the government budget, and many other issues that the country needs today. Therefore, taking into account the statement made by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I am putting to the vote the issue of approval of the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. May I have a vote, Your Honorable Colleagues of the People's Deputies. Please vote, fellow nationals. [[13:23:18]] For 269 The solution. [[Applause]] The government's action programme has been approved. Against 28, held – 14, not voted – 42. I'm asking for factions. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that all those who objected, those who abstained from voting, I think we all have a very good chance of uniting with you around a clear understanding of how to overcome the serious negative phenomena that are in our country, together Parliament, President and Government. Welcome to the government with the Action Programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your approval of our joint program and our shared responsibility to the Ukrainian people. The government is about to run the program. Expect us in Parliament with complex but correct laws, which must also be supported, constitutional support in this parliamentary room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u105	Let's thank the government. Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. We wish for success. And I would like to ask the ministers personally to attend committee meetings and set up a perfectly normal dialogue with the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we'll settle this issue and work as a team. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have an early session, as you know, by 2 p.m. I'd like to make an offer to continue the morning session without interruption until the issue of order is exhausted. Let's work hard and figure it out. Come on, please put to the vote to continue the morning session until the issues of order are exhausted. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:25:20]] For 319 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. We continue our work. Since the draft laws and regulations that you and I have included in the plenary session for today have been discussed extensively enough, I would suggest that we consider them in a simplified manner. I think it's perfectly logical. I'm betting on the vote, Your Honor. I'm asking you to make up your mind. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:25:56]] For 262 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. We're working on a reduced procedure for dealing with agenda issues. For your consideration, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act on improving coordination and control in the area of national security and defence is being introduced. I ask for a report, I invite you to report to the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Knazević Ruslan Petrovic. Please, Your Honor, Ruslan Petrovich. There isn't, is there, in the hall? Okay. I would then like to invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, the co-rapporteur from the question of Pasinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. I want to remind you, according to the 2 minute rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear friends. I want to emphasize that the National Security and Defence Council is a constitutional body. This body is regulated by a special law of Ukraine, which was written and adopted by the Supreme Council in the 1990s, which is called the National Security and Defence Council. To be honest, in the '90s, no one expected the challenges that unfortunately came before our state this year. And in fact, it was kind of an advisory body, although it was constitutional. Article of the Constitution This body should be. coordinate the activities of all the structures involved in the implementation of our protective security activities. The President of Ukraine introduced yesterday as a first-line bill on amendments and additions to the National Security Council Act. You can get to know each other. The essence of these changes and additions: in greater clarity of regulation and structure of the text of the law, which allows, in large accounts, the President as the guarantor of the Constitution, and the Supreme Commander through the NAPO and the PRSP apparatus to clearly coordinate, control and implement their constitutional powers. Our committee considered this bill carefully yesterday. The decision was unanimous: recommending that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole for today’s meeting. Thank you, for your attention. If there are any questions, any comments, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u107	Thank you. An unforeseeable question, and it's just a faction position. Please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the point is that when, after returning to the Constitution in 2004, the Supreme Council, remember, to implement the relevant constitutional provisions, amended a number of laws, there were 72 of them who returned to the text, which, respectively, worked in Ukraine until October 2010, after the validity of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which had been returned, more precisely, in fact, returned to the Constitution in 2006. This law at the time simply fell out of this embrace, and now there is a serious need to really develop it in line with the constitutional reality in which we live, beginning in February 2014. And the left-hand side of those norms that are being proposed to change is just returning those constitutional mechanisms that are provided for in the 2004 Constitution for the implementation of the powers of such a serious constitutional body as the National Security and Defence Council. Well, a few examples. For example, according to the rules of the new Constitution, this body is the coordinating and monitoring body of the executive branch of that queen, which belongs to its exclusive constitutional competence. Or, for example, that in the absence of the Head of the Council of National Security and Defence under the new Constitution, its mandate should not be exercised by the Prime Minister, as provided for by the old Constitution, but by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A wide range of positions are also envisaged to clarify the National Security Council itself and the National Security Council Secretariat as head of the National Security Council Secretariat and coordinator of the work of this constitutional body. There is also a need for implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u109	Please let me finish. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u110	A series of technical items related to work regulations, employment regulations, and so forth. In view of these circumstances, honourable colleagues, and the extreme constitutional need to adapt the Law on LRA to the drafting of the current Constitution, I ask you to consider this law and to support it on a basis and as a whole, without which this body continues, unfortunately, cannot fully exercise its constitutional powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u111	Thank you. I ask you, Oksana Ivanovna Siroid, Deputy Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u112	I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u113	Then there's two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u114	I certainly understand the importance of redrafting the National Security and Defence Council Act. But here you and I, colleagues, have finally agreed to follow the rules and procedures set out for the consideration of draft laws. So if we think that this bill is so urgent, let's support at least a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading, but let's make a full second reading for this bill. Moreover, some of the positions proposed in this bill are not so clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u115	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign in, two in favor, two in front of the factions. Please sign in, two for, two against. Corresponding to the reduced procedure. Please, People's Front, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u116	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Timchuk Dmitr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u117	Please. Timchuk, Dmitri Timchuk, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u118	From the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u119	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! It is well known that the beginning of the so - called Donbas antiterrorist operation was marked by the problem of the harmonization of the interaction of the force organs. So this problem has not yet been solved and remains one of the biggest problems in fighting by the Ukrainian forces. So the absence of interaction gives rise to a series of issues that have been in fact fighting for nine months now, but we still haven't solved them. In the meantime, according to the Constitution, there is a body directly responsible for coordinating actions, the coordinating body is the Council of National Security and Defence. If we look at the changes to the bill that are being submitted, we see that the function that is being laid down by the law on the PNP on this structure is already going to have some specific features. That is, the PNDP is given weight not only in making proposals to the President, but also in making decisions in the area of National Security and Defence, the Secretary of the PNDP is also having a major impact on human resources policies in the design of the national authorities in the area of National Security and Defence. So we're going to get a real coordinating body that is absolutely necessary to protect the interests of National Security and Defence. Please support and take the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u120	Based on the base. Thank you. Please, National Deputy Chumak Viktor Vasilovich, Peter Prashenko's Block. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u121	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kyiv city, Dniprovsky district, Peter Prashenko's Block. Dear colleagues, I want to say to you today about the relevance of this bill. The National Security and Defence Council is a constitutional body on which the coordination of all power structures in the state is raised. Moreover, I would like to say that this is certainly the only constitutional site in which proposals or opinions can be made or decisions made regarding not only the defence part of the country, not only the defence of the country, but also all the executive organs, all the public authorities, institutions, especially when this is happening during the time of aggression. I would certainly agree with Ms. Vice Speaker on the possibility of adopting this bill on a normal procedure for reviewing bills in Parliament. But what I would like to say today is the urgent need for urgent decision-making, especially in the area of strengthening the country’s security, including by coordinating the activities of all central executive authorities. That's why Peter Prashenko's Block will no doubt support this bill. I want to say that let's support it on the basis and, in general, that the changes that are being made are completely understandable and do not require serious discussion enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Sobolje Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u124	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to take a closer look at the warnings of the Science and Experimental Authority. If we are now adopting a decision, which is a decision that should be clearly consistent with the Constitution, we must answer the two questions that we have voted in this session room. With regard to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, where this body that we are to form with you is the co-ordinator in the fight against corruption. Now these issues are actually being passed on to the LNB, and we need to be clear about whether this corresponds to the concepts of fighting corruption, in that bill that has already become law? The other one. Is there a vague definition of the role and place of the heads of the PNDP and the Secretary of the PNDP? A very clear science-expert agency has described how to distinguish between the functions of the Secretary of the NPB and the heads of the NPB, who is the President of the country. In this case, no further powers can be delegated by the President of the country to any other body. And the third question is, since we have a further non-military situation, not a military state, but an anti-terrorism operation, it raises the issue of leadership by all armed forces. So I absolutely agree with the previous speakers, because the PNB should take these powers, but once again, they must comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. So our faction supports the vice-speaker's proposal to adopt this decision in the first reading on the accelerated process of processing, and we could continue to adopt the final decision after the accelerated procedure, taking into account the amendments that should be made in connection with changes to a whole series of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u127	Please pass the word to Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u128	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u129	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block." You know, now that we're looking at this bill, we feel like we're going back in 2004, we're going back in 2005. Permanently dragging these powers into a triangle: President-Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am still calling your attention, and we insist that you first move away from the Basic Law of Ukraine is the Constitution of Ukraine. The mandate of the PNB is clearly set out in article 107 of this Constitution of Ukraine, ours. And you want to change them -- please make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, don't adopt laws that don't comply with our Basic Law. So the proposal of the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block": this bill is to be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u130	Please, Your Honor, all positions have been expressed, "for" and "against." Please. [[General Discussion]] One minute at a time. A radical party and Self-Help, and a non-fractional one minute. It's a deal. Postfaction, please log in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The question that is currently being considered is a very important question, because it's because there is no interaction between the various authorities, ministries, and the authorities that are taking part in the so-called anti-terror operation in the East, and we have huge losses. Regrettably, in this time of so - called tranquillity, the truce once again on our Donbassa: Three soldiers were killed, eight injured. Today a 28-year-old boy was buried in my hometown of Barb in Chernigovishka. Two boys were buried under the sands at the Doña Airport. So the question of interaction is the survival of the defenders of the country, of those who are today fighting a free fight in the eastern part of the country. That's why we support this bill, we consider it and we turn to our colleagues: to support it, to vote in order to have a stake, actually the Supreme Command, and in other words it's called. And in general, I think that both the President and the Security Council should immediately consider the issues and remove those moments that hinder the interaction of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other authorities. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u133	Oleg Berezuk, Self Help Union. We believe that the work of PNB is very important today. But you can't break the weights and the opposites that are formed within us in society between the President, the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, we can only support this bill as a faction. We will not vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, from the non-fractional People's Deputy Bublik Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u135	The Bible book of Yuri Vasilovich. Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u136	Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u137	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, let's not really create a situation of bi-government in the country. Because the National Security and Defence Council is, of course, a key body in coordinating all power structures. But this has already been discussed, but it is worth stressing. The issue of combating corruption, why create a national anti-corruption agency if we create 10 bodies that will have the authority to fight corruption? This means that as a result, no one will fight corruption. And it's a matter of state building. It's a question of rational formation of objects of knowledge of different structures. And so, come on, friends, speak plainly. It's been a long time. We've got an NSA secretary on the loose. And let us also understand this question because it is very important. What we're saying is that it's a very important organ, but for many months, this body has actually no leader. So we have to take this moment into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u138	Thank you, please, Andri Parubai.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u139	Dear National Deputies! In fact, the question that we're looking at right now is long overdue. And of course, what we have to do in a war that's actually going on, adapting and changing legislation. Indeed, when war broke out, the question of interaction between different power structures was one of the key issues. And unfortunately, I want to tell you how often a person who held the Secretary of the NPB has not been able to fully influence this process. In fact, during the period of military action, the Secretary of the NPB must be the position that will be surrounded by all the coordination activities of all the forces of the country. To be able to do so in a responsible manner, we need to increase the responsibility of the Secretary of the NPB. And so the bill really does not only deal with the harmonization of laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, it really does involve strengthening the powers and responsibilities of the Secretary of RNBO. And I want to go to the Opposition Block about the redistribution of powers and competition: you can't wait. There is no opposition on this issue, and there is no opposition between the various branches of government, there is a full interaction. This bill is supported as President of Ukraine, this bill is supported by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and, in fact, I think the sooner we accept it, the better it will be for the front, the better it will be for the victory on the front. And that's why I urge you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u140	Dear fellow national MPs! I'd like everyone to calm down. Now there were a lot of words saying "yes" and "against" the necessity of this bill. I have no doubt that this law is extremely necessary, but I would like to draw the attention of all the national MPs, regardless of factions, there is a procedure for considering issues and laws that we cannot violate with you. And that means that we should now consider this draft law in the first reading, based on its adoption. Then we can now decide with you to shorten the procedures for preparing for the second reading. And so putting it on Tuesday on the first day of the sessional week in the Supreme Council Hall and voting it would mean that we have fully followed the procedure laid down by the Rules of the Supreme Council. On the other hand, we will not be able to adopt drafts with you, because they will conflict with decision-making and with respect to compliance. That's why, dear fellows, I'm putting it to a vote. For reasons of vote? For the reasons of the vote, please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u141	Dear friends. I want to explain a little bit. They were talking about an anti-corruption strategy, everything else. There's the Ukrainian Presidential Act, where it's written that the President is developing an anti-corruption strategy, there's no contradiction. But that's not the point. I have a proposal: to vote the law now as a basis and then let the House decide whether we vote on it as a basis and as a whole today or in a reduced procedure. I have a proposal after we vote it as a basis, to put to the vote a decision to vote this law on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues. If we didn't say it would actually be a violation of Rule 102, which defines, if there's a denial, we can't view it the way you suggested. So I'm proposing and voting on this bill as a basis. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies to identify themselves. We all have to respect procedures. [[13:47:18]] For 316 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. The second proposal I put to the vote is to adopt a procedure short for preparing for second reading. First there is the Rules, and we all have to keep them. So please, I put to the vote, to prepare the draft law for the second reading of the reduced procedure, that means a week. Please put to the vote. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[13:48:02]] For 310 Decision taken. [[Applause]] And so I'd like to ask all the committees, honourable colleagues, because this is an important document and we have to accept it on Tuesday to prepare it for consideration. And we'll look at Tuesday's first question. I'd like to take this into account during the Conciliation Council meeting. Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. Next, please. Draft decrees. Dear colleagues, we also have a serious enough question to consider. The draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call. We have the registration number of Decree 1291. I invite you to the words of Oleg Valeriovich Lalashka, the author of the decree, please. I'm reminding you that we've made a decision, under a reduced procedure. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I already mentioned today in my previous speech about the dead of our heroes, who were buried today in the famous Chernigovishka, Prikluki, and Barva. These boys are the guardians of the Motherland, and they deserve to be named after and forever enter the history of our country as heroes, like patriots, who will live forever in our hearts. Valentin Boyko, 1979 A resident of Priluka. Victor Lavrinchuk, 1986 A resident of Priluka. Liver of the village of Barva, Viacheslav Nosenko, 1985 The Kingdom of Heaven, the light of the memory of these Cossacks-heroes. Thank you, fellows who supported it were honored. And then I'd like to say it on the subject. We're talking to you about committee issues. I address representatives, those who call themselves opposition. Here's where your committees are, on the cemetery for thousands. Thousands on Maidan, on the front! Today, the peaceful residents of Donbas, who have become hostages of Putin because of your shameful anti - Ukrainian policy, are starving, not eating, not receiving drugs. My native aunt in Alchevsk is 80 years old, without a pension, without a cure, without anything. There's another aunt in Luhansk. This is where your committees are. Do the committees give you hope? Make sure that your heads are not open to you, not to the committees. So I propose without discussion to vote, and all those who are involved in the bloody crimes of the Yanukovich gang, all those who are involved in the bloodshed in our country, will be deprived of their leadership positions. It's a political responsibility, at least. I'm not talking about the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u144	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u145	The Security Service should have long submitted to the Supreme Council a report on the criminalization of the vanguards of Yanuković. And we give them the opportunity to become deputies. I want to talk to my coalition colleagues. There are many intelligent and experienced politicians among you. Believe me, if Janukovich's gang after Majdan remained in power, most of you wouldn't be in this room. You wouldn't be allowed to leave, you'd be taken out of the district courts' decisions, you'd be beaten in the C.V.C.V., and if you were to get through the blood, through tears to Midan, you'd be forced into a coalition if your business and everything else were destroyed. So we don't have to say that we're not Democrats. We must protect our country and honor it, not betray the memory of our heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u146	The reporter expressed his position. Correspondent is the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Pingsenik Pavlovic. Then by procedure, I'll remind you, two is for, two is against. I also want to report that I just got it. One minute, Paul Vasilovich. I got a request from two MPs to announce a 30-minute break. In order not to announce it, however, three minutes from this issue are requested. I am obliged to provide them. That's why I'll give it to you after you do the show. I just kept you posted. You're welcome. Please, Pavel Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Rules of Procedure discussed the draft Decree (registration number 1291) on December 10, 2014, and the author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Lásko Oleg Valeriovich. The draft regulation proposes to withdraw from the governing boards of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Bobova, Boguslayeva, Bondara, Hirschfeld, Derkača, Katsubu, Kisse, Klimova, Labazyuk, Floodski, Razwadovski, Feldman, Ship, Skin, which, as indicated in the explanatory note to the draft decision, voted in favour of the laws of 16 January and to elect them members of the relevant committees. In fact, the committee noted the following. The basis, order of election, the recall of the national deputies to the governing positions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by article 82-83 of the Rules of Procedure of Ukraine. In particular, the first deputy, the deputy, the deputy head, the secretary of the committee may be withdrawn at any time by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including by circumstances that make it impossible for them to perform their duties. True, the proposal to withdraw on such grounds may be made either by the Head of the Supreme Council or by the appropriate committees with such national deputies. The committee noted that the subjects who may be in violation of such questions are a committee or a head, as appropriate. Thus, the draft Decree (1291) was introduced in this section without taking into account the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the committee noted that National Deputy Šipek Andrija Fedorovich was invited to withdraw from the post of Deputy Head of the Health Committee and to elect him as a member of the same committee. However, according to the signed and published Ordinance on the Personal Composition of the Committees, National MP Shipko Andri Fedorovich is a member of the committee, not a member of the committee. And the committee is asking for a technical drafting of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u148	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u149	Next. During the discussion of the draft decision at the committee, there were Ukrainian national deputies mentioned in the draft decree: Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Atroshenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich, Labazyuk Sergey Petrovich, Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich, Skin Igor Mikolaiovich. In their speeches, they explained that they did not vote in favour of the January 16 laws, and Labazük Sergey Petrovich, Floodsky, and Razwadowski submitted to the committee written explanations and documents stating that they did not vote in favour of the dictatorships on January 16, 2014. These materials are added to the committee’s conclusion and the draft decision, and you can get to know them. In view of the fact that the invited persons stressed that they had not taken part in the January 16 vote, the National Deputies and members of the Committee made a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appropriateness of the establishment of the TSC to find out the facts of the vote on January 16, 2014. With regard to the substance of the matter raised in the draft regulation, the Committee invites the Supreme Council to consider the draft regulation and to take into account the technical comment made on the decision on the draft order by voting in the Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the reduced procedure two in favour, two in opposition. Please sign up from factions for the performance. Two for, two against. Please, People's Deputy Vladimir Georgievich Gusak, "The Opposition Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u151	Yeah. Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u152	Please, you're in a position of favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u153	In fact, we have a position against it. So, just a colleague pressed for it. But I want to point out that I would like to take this opportunity and still put all the dots above the "and" on dictatorial laws. At first, I would like to say that there is no need for staff issues to be handled emotionally. It's just a fraction of the truffles. We're not, we're not chasing to get these portfolios. Please get these positions, because this is a responsibility, this is your government. That's the first one. Secondly, you're going to Europe, but not without European principles. Therefore, you need not say that you are preaching European principles. There are appropriate recommendations from PARJE that the opposition should take part in the legislative process. Thirdly, you didn't vote for us, you voted for us by one and a half million citizens who don't share your point of view. And now from a professional point of view, I'd like to spend one of these. on dictatorial laws. Indeed, January 16 was voted by the hands because there was physical opposition from the opposition then, and now the authorities, for the low dictatorial, so to speak, bills. The first bill, 3879, on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the judiciary and the status of judges of procedural laws on additional measures to protect the security of citizens. What is offered in particular. It is suggested that criminal responsibility be imposed for slander. These dictatorial laws are already in force in the Czech Republic, Denmark, and the United States. In particular, I want to point out that for slander in the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, two years' imprisonment in France, one year's imprisonment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, I demand discipline.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u155	Germany is 32 years of imprisonment. Responsibility, yes, for Balaclav’s massive actions in Germany, in the United States, there is responsibility in Canada. The responsibility for condemning the crimes of Nazism, for destroying monuments, was passed by such dictatorial laws. Responsibility for the involvement of criminal conduct is now accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u156	So please don't speculate about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u157	Next speaker. Dear colleagues, two minutes in a row. Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u158	Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u159	Sergey Sobolev, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, here's what we're talking about. If the Opposition Block and the Groups don't have a claim to run committees, and you want to do legislative work alone, go ahead, draft legislation, do legislative work. That's why, in order to stop the practice of having the number of substitutes, heads and secretaries increase in proportion to the number of groups created, there's a clear proposal, by this number we're reducing the number of substitutes and secretaries. And that's how we solve this question. [[Applause]] Second, the moral-ethic side. I really like the way they're giving out these pictures right now about the fact that they didn't vote on January 16th. And you didn't forget, when you were hiding in the corners here, you raised two or three hands together with your legs to get the desired figure in 236 votes. You're talking about European principles. I would like to see the European principles, where there are a maximum of 150 people in the room, and your deputy Communist Caliettnik and the so-called head of the Counting Commission announces without counting the votes of 236. And you know, the key question. If it were just a murder in Parliament, there were no questions. When your laws have led to tens and now thousands of victims, at least have a moral responsibility to repent and claim your own authority. It will be your political responsibility at least. I'm not talking about any other principles anymore. So our faction insists that the norm and political and moral responsibility for the actions that have taken place in this sessional room be met. And the last. Regarding the fact that so - called dictatorial laws operate in Ukraine or operate in other lands. Show me at least one country where five cars move together in one column can take documents and deprive drivers of their will. Show me at least one country you can go to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u161	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u162	where the Internet can be banned, except North Korea, if there's something wrong about the ruling party or the ruling president. You've come a long way. Stop! And that's why it's a way out of the way for you to be responsible for everything that's happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u163	Next, please, the Economic Development Group is Yatzenko. In the frame, just as you signed up, so I give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! Personally, I am very concerned about the question of when Ukraine is now demonstrating to the world what we have, unfortunately, is the idea of voters. Let us remind you that the claims against the deputies you have today have cast more than one and a half million votes for them. I'm talking about seniors. And another one-and-a-half million is the Opposition Block. So 3 million citizens, so the information you're talking about, gave their trust to these people. I'm going to say that Mr. Tombinsky, who doesn't know, the head of the European Union representation in Ukraine, strongly condemned these events, which are now happening here, today, in this room or a few days ago. Because it doesn't belong to countries with developed democracy. But unfortunately, this situation is a very historic example when in 1933 the Nazis, the Communists, the Social Democrats entered the German Parliament, then a number of members of the Nazi Party were deprived of their mandates and created corridors of disgrace, which now resembles the garbage cans and so on. I beg you all to excuse me, but do not respect us, we do not need to, respect the voters who voted for us. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u165	I invite you to speak to Matthew Anatoly Sergiyovich. I'll give it a minute for all those who didn't participate in the discussion, the factions, and the groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u166	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address everyone's conscience today, not just the opposition, but the coalition, and say that the very fact that we are considering this issue should give us an extremely responsible task, which, for our decisions, for our actions and for our vote, we will answer sooner or later, so this is a lesson for everyone. As for the opposition, I would like to assure them that you work on the committees, go there, it gives you nothing, be responsible. Both by your work and concern for Ukraine, rehabilitate yourself if you want to, not by position. But to you, Vladimir Borisovich, there is a proposal, please, that there are people who have written an application for the authority of committee heads. It seems to me that we have to be, to treat them with some respect, and to remove them from the list of those whom we now exclude, and to satisfy their claim and include them in the committees that they want to work. Then it is respect that a person has come to the decision that we have made. I'd like to give Najem another half-minute, if I may, in order for Mustafa Najem to express his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u167	We cannot pass the word according to the Rules. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that in order to put to the vote questions about the people who wrote the statements, please make their names known under the transcript. And then. I don't have any. And then the national MPs will vote. Who did you just say you were, the one who wrote the application? Who's that, last name? Please, one minute. Take your seats, please. Take your seats. Thank you. The factions that did not participate in the discussion in one minute. And one from the non-fractional. Please, the Radical Party faction. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u168	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. You know, I, like you fellows, have seen these statements today, written a year later, that MPs who voted in favour of dictatorial laws are calling off their votes, and I'd like to ask you, will you also call off the death of the fallen heroes? You'll bring them back from that world? You are not ashamed of being excused. You repent of those sins, because you are all who voted in favour of the laws of tyrant Yanukovich, whom you served, you are all by the blood of our heroes. Be wise, repent. And when the deputy from the burglary bloc immediately spoke and appealed to us to European values, God, and you wiped your feet on the Rules, you wiped your feet against the law, you served Yanukovich as silent slaves, and today you can work on the committees you want, no one beats you in the Council for the time being. Show wisdom, repent for yourself. [[Applause]] And I like it (in paws), says Mr. Yatzenko and says, "Honor the voters who voted for them." I feel ashamed, and I will never respect those voters who sold their voice like Yatzenko for 200 bracelets and pounds of Greek! Because these voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Self-Help. Please, just a minute. Guys, calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u170	If we all view ourselves as a European Parliament of values, we should quietly, without hands and screaming, vote in favour of this law, for it is not a political and nonlegal obligation, it is a moral duty toward the living and the dead. Please stop talking and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u171	From the People's Front, will anyone be speaking? If not, then I'll ask Mustafa for a line from the scene. Please give the word to Mustafa Najem. Stop yelling in the hall and sit down. Please, Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that during the consideration of this decision there was also a proposal from the head of our faction to cancel the appointment of Mr. Long, Olesia Long, as deputy head of the Committee on Economic Development. [[Applause]] It was a breach of procedure that did not come into the final consideration of the ruling. Please, let's put this in, because it's not right, it's a violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, everything needs to be done according to procedure, according to the Rules. I'll give you a minute. We have to do everything according to the Rules. We agreed with you, there are rules that we will all respect with you. It can't be any different. So please have a line. Please. You have the right to a replica. I'll give you a minute. Jacenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u174	Dear friends, now such a very young MP, as an assistant to this, Lozová spat in the face of 50,000 Churchmen who voted for me. I'll remind this gentleman that I'm the second major, the third time I'm a deputy. And they didn't vote for me because, as you're used to putting someone behind the Greeks, but because people respect me. I've taken third place among seniors from all over Ukraine. So let's respect, once again, please, European values and respect the electorate, the people who gave their votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u175	Dear colleagues. There was a last name. One minute, I'll give everyone a word and a lineup, including. There was a word, the name of the People's Deputy Long, then of Loz. I'll give you a 30-second line. All right, 30 seconds of replica, and we put it at risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u176	Good afternoon, fellow believers! Deputy Longey, Kirovograd district, election 102nd district. Dear colleagues! Even though my last name is not in this regulation, it has not passed the Legislative Committee and any amendment will be a gross violation of both the Constitution and the Rules, and at least two laws of Ukraine. I mean, I'm not fighting for any jobs, but I'm fighting for the principles that we, as the new Council, are going to be working on here today. And when one individual MP, to whom I, by the way, refer with respect, who went under the slogans, "Time to unite!", demonstrating his prejudice towards me, then know that if you make a political decision now, tomorrow it may concern each and every one of you. Therefore, dear friends, under the Rules, I am opposed to such an amendment. And I want to say according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u177	Oh, shit. Thank you. Please, it's Lozov's line. And then I'm going to give those who didn't take it from factions and groups, that's Self-help. And then one from the non-fractional and we'll put it at risk. For reasons of vote, calm down. For reasons of vote, those who have not taken part in the discussion may take part in the vote. Please, Bad guy, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u178	Because my last name came up. I will be very ashamed that when we consider such an important issue, it will all turn into personal disputes. Together, if 90 percent of those present were to choose how much money, like Yatzenko, they would have taken 101 seats in any election. But: "O people! For a lot of rotten sausages, ask your mother." I would now like to let those voters who sell their votes for such as Yatzenko become a little ashamed because on their conscience the blood of our heroes. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u179	I would like to ask the Regulatory Committee to invite the deputies and to provide an explanation of the reply. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking for self-help, National Deputy Kishkar, one minute. They're entitled to a motive, they didn't take part in the discussion. And Barezuk did, didn't he? Excuse me, please. Please, I give the word to the non-fractional, sign up. Respectable non-fractional. One of the non-fractional ones. Jaroz Dmitry Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u180	Please pass the word to Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u181	Please, Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that perhaps the fact that we are going to vote now does not exactly correspond to European values, perhaps. But there was no Maidan in Europe, there was no killing of citizens in Europe, there was no parliamentary support for dictators. No, it was, for the last time in Germany, I remember it that way. But we remember another period of denunciation, and I realize that we are going through something like this right now. So when those people backed up at the time and did not respond to their voices, they must answer to us immediately, in front of the name of Ukraine, in front of the nard. And we support this decision because it needs Ukraine more than anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, I have to give the word to two. a representative of two groups that requested a recess and this is in full compliance with the Rules. So, please, in three minutes, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I ask patience, fellow believers. Can I have a wave, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u184	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The People's will MPs claim to have called off all the national MPs, members of our group from the senior boards of the Supreme Council on the eighth call. [[Applause]] We pay attention to systematic violations by the coalition, the European Ukraine Deputies and the chairman of the preparatory parliamentary group of the Supreme Council, and now by the Head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 81 of the Ukrainian Law on Rules, articles 6, 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council and so on. These standards reinforce the principles of the distribution of headships, first intercessors, intercessors, and so forth. But we don't insist on these positions, we point out once again that we're calling off and making an appropriate decision for the Supreme Council to consider. The coalition's work, unfortunately, began not with the preparation of changes to the economy, the powerful reforms and so on, but began today with the increase in the number of seats on the committees. In some cases, six of the seven deputies in the committee are in charge of heads, first traps, substitutes, and so on. And unfortunately, we've seen that power is being usurped and that individual MPs are being discriminated against, especially majors in principle -- you've entered the coalition or not. And it's going to depend on whether you have the opportunity or not. At the same time, we point out that the distribution of such positions, the distribution of posts on such a principle, violates all European principles of parliamentaryism. In Europe the rights and duties of all factions are enshrined in part one of the first procedural, guiding principles on the rights and duties of factions in the democratic parliament, Resolution 1601 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'm going to read this rule specifically, and I'm going to understand that there's going to be questions. According to section 2.3. 1 of this document, members of the opposition, including the right to take part in the leadership of parliamentary activities, to have access to the positions of deputies of the Head and others, and so on. But once again, given the traditions of the developed countries of the European Union and so forth, all deputies would have the right to hold positions, including on various committees. But we do not insist on any positions. We refuse to have any culinary arrangements, no charges. And we insist that we put to the vote our draft decree to which we renounce positions, No. 1356. And we ask the Hall to support this draft decision, which will allow you to remove all charges and resolve the issue in a civilized, democratic way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, of course we can't, went out and declared us. Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius. We can't vote like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u186	Deputies! First of all, we cannot vote on any other decision until it has been voted on and the ruling on which it is being considered. Secondly, I would like to remind you, by the way, that a year ago, from December 10 to 11, we were attacked by thousands of fighters at the direction of Yanukovich in Maidan. For some reason, the honourable deputies of the majority didn't tell us about European traditions, about European human rights, and didn't stop "Berkut." [[Applause]] And more than that, many of the deputies from most, I spent that night in Maidan completely, and I can say how many of you were directly led and led by the Bercuta fighters, mutilating ordinary people, including MPs. At that time, we had to mention Europe and European traditions. I want to remind you, society, something important. We do not violate any European tradition and rules. If you have cognitive dissonance, you have to put that thing away. I will remind you that during the discussion of this issue, the chairman asked the opposition: what are your suggestions? They called three committees. And the three committees were appointed as a preparatory group for the opposition. They have renounced those committees, which are also their right and to no extent violates any European tradition. And for someone who's supposed to be in committee leadership, we don't disrespect any of our citizens, because that's political responsibility. And this is the position of the hall -- to choose or not to choose a member of the governing body. It is a political responsibility. And today we are implementing the principles of political responsibility. But I want to remind you. A day will come soon when criminal responsibility will also have to be borne. And we'll get closer that day. [[Applause]] So I urge you to support the decision. Now there is no discussion, no reply to vote and to move on to the order of the day, the following questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u187	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich. I'm voting on a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for registration number 1291. Members of the People's Parliament may decide on this decision by voting. [[14:20:04]] For 264 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Against 0, holding back - 6, not voting - 79. The factions, please. Thank you, Your Honor. Next. I'll take the order. Draft Resolution on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call and Election of the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization (project registration number 1315). I ask you, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich is the author and reporter of this question. Let's have a word with you. Two minutes of regulation. Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of my authorship decreed that two vacant positions of committee heads should be filled, according to banking and financial activities and construction and the JRC. Under the terms of the coalition, they are invited to choose: Skuratovski Sergey Ivanovich, National Deputy of the Radical Party faction, Head of the Committee on Construction; Sergio Viktorovich, National Deputy of the Radical Party, Head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking; and to elect Mosiyczuk and Kirichenko as First Deputys of the two other committees that are here in the ruling. Also on the regulatory committee, a decision was made to delegate a member to a committee of one of the new MPs from the People's Front. The regulatory committee also raised a question that did not come to this decision for technical reasons. I have in my hands a statement from the People's Deputy Alexia Dustenka asking to be transferred from the Economic Committee to the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. According to the Rules, a national MP is appointed on his own. Please also include this in the determination. Also, considering the absence of the first Deputy Committee on Banking and Financial Affairs, please include Douben Mikhail Volodymirovich as the first deputy to this committee under the quota of the Peter Poroshenko Block. With these amendments, please support all members of the coalition and all other national deputies with the proposed draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, co-reporter Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich. Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik, co-reporter by decree, well, number 1315. I also want to point out that the 1291 decrees that we just voted have been adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on December 11th considered the draft decree (registration number 1315), the author of the initiative by national deputy Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Once again for the transcript, I repeat what changes are being made to the personal composition of the committees in accordance with Decree 1315. Head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities, electing Skuratovski Sergio Ivanovich to release him from office as the first deputy head of this committee. The head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, Sergio Viktorovich, has been released from office as deputy head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. Mr. Igor Volodymirovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legislative Protection, released him from office as deputy head of the committee. As a member of the Health Committee, Kirichenko Alexi Mikolayovich was elected deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Láško Oleg Valeriyovich First Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Omelchenk Vasil Vasilovich, was released from office as deputy head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. The next decision, as Jury Vitaliyovich Lucenko has already said, is to elect a member of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The People's Front" of the Committee on Economic Policy. Complete the Committee's Personal Composition Order with the appropriate paragraph. Another issue that was raised at the Rules Committee meeting. The Supreme Council’s decision on the composition of the committees, signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, states that the national deputy Balický Evgen Vitaliyovich. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u191	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u192	is a representative of the People's Front faction. The appointed MP, the national deputy is not a member of the People's Front faction, so I ask you to exclude this from the relevant point of the decree and point out that it is non-fractional. With regard to the proposals made by the Lucenko People's Deputy, they were not the subject of consideration by the Regulatory Committee, I ask you to identify yourself on this point in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u193	Thank you. Please report, two-minute co-reporter. Who's up for it, who's up for it? You want me to vote? In general, it's not, is it? There are non-fractional, there are proposals. So, please, I'd like to sign up for one minute with the motive for voting non-fractional, "Paternity" and. Please, come on, cancel the recording. Two for, two for. Check it out, two for, two for. Please. If everyone doesn't speak, please, you can give up the word. Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u194	We support the amendments and the law of Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u195	Thank you. People's Front, People's Deputy River Andriy Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u196	We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u197	National Deputy Reka Andriy Aleksandrovich We did, didn't we? Thank you. Next, please, Martovici, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u198	I ask you to pass the word to Schuffritch Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u199	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u200	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to reiterate that the Opposition Block has taken up the principle of distribution and is now redistributing committees. Today’s coalition has been working very effectively for a week, dividing and allocating appropriate positions on the committee. But I would like to point out to you that Decree 1315 was not placed in the agenda and we don't know its text, at least we didn't get it. We ask, however, to comply with the rules and then to submit the relevant drafts to the vote. ♪ For the attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u201	Thank you. I'm just going to comment on what we've established with you the order of the day session, once. Secondly, we've had a group of MP factions that form the majority, and that's how we're looking at the agenda, so there's no basis for that. Please, from the non-faulty. If there is to be no record, then we're voting for Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u202	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, we have not heard that this question has ever been so delicately mentioned, another very important committee with no head yet is the Rules Committee. And this is a wonderful committee in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you know, so that it doesn't work out, and then somehow the question is that the Kremlin Block is going to claim leadership on this committee. So there's a proposal that we've made a long time ago. There is an appropriate decision, registered, and there are signatures of representatives, by the way, of all five factions of the coalition plus non-fractional, to recommend to the head of the regulatory committee of our colleague, Yuri Levchenka, who has the appropriate experience of working on the Kiev City Council on such a commission and who is not actually a member of the coalition, because it is a monitoring committee. And it seems to me that patriots, who are not members of the coalition, should lead this committee, not Kremlin salesmen. Therefore, it is also a great request to include this amendment in the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I think there is a need for this issue to be considered according to the procedure, including on the Coalition Council, as the Coalition Coordinator says. I'm putting to the vote the registration number of the Change Order of the Supreme Council. I'll tell you what. The draft Order amending the Supreme Council Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries of the Committees of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call and the election of the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, taking into account proposals made by Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko (Registration No. 1315). I ask you to vote on the basis and, in general, the honourable colleagues. [[14:30:41]] For 247 Decision taken. It's been decided. "For" is 247, "against" is 9, held - 15, not voted 71. The factions, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and the President of the Russian Federation on the Liberation of the Ukrainian Airplane and the National Deputy of Ukraine VIII calling on the Hope of Viktorovna Savichenko. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. There is an offer, my fellow Members, to vote without discussion. I'm voting on the basis and the entire draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Stop, I'm asking you to stop. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. He's entitled to two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I now support the proposal without discussion. But there is one point that I agree to as an author and a committee of profiles. We would like all the changes and additions that have been made by the profile committee to be included in the section that the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls for the release not only of the National Deputy of Ukraine, VIII, of the call for the hope of Viktorovna Savichenko, as well as the release of Oleg Senzov, Mikoli Karpuk and other Ukrainian citizens who, as a result of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, were captured, illegally transported to and against the territory of the Russian Federation. And the last. The Supreme Council of Ukraine entrusts the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine with informing all national parliaments of foreign states, international organisations and inter-parliamentary assemblies about changes in this appeal. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on a 1095 vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we vote, but there's a procedure. One minute, there's a procedure. Please, who's up for it, who's up for it? Two for, two against. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, colleagues, we all have to adjust what procedure is. And then everything will be fine. Please, pro, so I understand there's no point in speaking? Oleg Lazko, please. You can give up the word. I will give my word to all who sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u206	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Please support the draft decision. And I hope that the Ukrainian authorities: both the executive, and the Ukrainian Parliament, and the government, and the President, and we will all do our utmost to free and fight for every Ukrainian citizen who is in captivity today, in the hostages of Russian aggressors and terrorists. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u207	Thank you. People's Front, National Deputy Vitaly Andriovich Korchik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u208	I would like to give the floor to the national deputy, Mr. Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u209	Please, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u210	People's Front, Alexander Turchinov. Dear colleagues, I think there are issues that don't really need to be discussed that are understood by all our citizens, not just the national MPs. Therefore, we propose to vote on this regulation with the amendments that have been tabled by the committee that the authors have agreed with. It is the release of both our fellow national deputy Saucenko and all Ukrainian citizens who are illegally captured by the Russian Federation and are in their territory as captives. Please support this ruling by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u211	Thank you. I want to remind you that there are MPs in the room who want to express their views. And I have as chairman this opportunity to give them according to the Rules. Please, Opposition Block, Nechayev Alexander Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u212	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u213	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The opposition block has decided to support the relevant draft decision in the version in which it was proposed. What is more, we asked for another paragraph in this decree, namely, in addressing officials, including the State Duma of the Russian Federation for Co-operation. on promotion, I stress, and speeding up the process of freeing everyone according to the principle of "everyone at all," which, including discussed in Minsk. Unfortunately, this offer was not accepted. I can tell you that many of us have done much to do so, and I have had success in some cases with regard to the release of prisoners. I now ask our colleagues, especially most of them, to put to the vote the version of the draft decision that was distributed in the hall. We support him. Please remove any changes from the voice that are not given in the room. We're going to vote for this, I emphasize, by the way that we've been familiar with, which is distributed in this room. And we support him. Any other amendments, especially from the voice, will not be accepted. Please put to the vote only the first version of this order. And he's going to get, I'm sure, over 400 votes, and he's going to unite our Supreme Council. Today, we are obliged to make decisions that unite the Council. And that's going to be a sign for society. And to make decisions that separate both the Council and society, I would like to abstain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u216	Dear colleagues. It is quite obvious that the release of all hostages is a key item in the Minsk Protocol. And there are three parties that have signed it. And we want to remind you that there are the signatures of Ukraine, the OSCE and the Russian Federation. It was signed by Ambassador Zurabov, who was the ambassador of the President of the Russian Federation Putin. In doing so, the Russian Federation is under an obligation to use its unconditional influence on the fighters it still supports with both weapons and money to free all Ukrainian hostages. And that's what it's supposed to be, because today more than 500 Ukrainians are just the ones we know about, we're the only ones talking about the military, we're in the traps of terrorists and we're stuck there in the brothels of torture. In the case of Mrs. Savchenko, it is obvious that this is a shocking case when a Ukrainian citizen who was carrying out her constitutional duties was abducted from the territory of Ukraine. And so I think that the Peter Prashenka Block is not just going to support this decision in the authorship of the decision that the authors have proposed with changes, that it's also about the appeals concerning Mr. Senzov, and about these dozens of cases of our citizens being kidnapped, which are being held captive today, there, in the Russian Federation. But we also have to look to our own, our Justice Department, that, on each occasion, an international lawsuit is to be drawn up. And Ukraine must protect its citizens because today they are illegally held as political prisoners in the territory of the Russian Federation. And obviously there can't be any discussion here. And what colleagues from the Opposition Block are saying, really prokremlovski, unfortunately, is once again: there is the Minsk Protocol, which is not yet being implemented by one party, the Russian Federation, which is obliged to do it, because there is their signature, their official representative, Mr. Zurabov. And all hostages must be released immediately by the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u217	Thank you. There is a committee decision, and I'm now voting on the basis and the whole draft decision (registration number 1095), taking into account the committee's proposals. Please support this motion for a ruling on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[14:39:41]] For-321 Against – 0, held – 0, did not vote – 28 national MPs. Please, by the factions. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I would like to inform you that in the course of the day-to-day debate, the draft decision (registration number 1315) was voted on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. I just didn't announce it, but it was with the committee's proposals, and that's how it got out of the vote. Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues to conduct a personal vote, that's your personal responsibility. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to pay particular attention to this, because they tell me that there are instances of non-personal voting in the room. I want you to understand the legal consequences, that means that I'm going to make an official warning, we're going to vote on the decisions, and we're going to delete the cards of those who didn't vote. This decision has been voted in full, I say in favour of the previous decision. Please, National Deputy Zalitschuk. There's no such thing as "out of motive" after the vote, well if you want me to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! Today in this room there was three photos of non-personal voting by colleague Igor Brichenk of the People's Front, which, including when voting on the committee. At the same time, the Head of the Supreme Council, Mr. Volodymyr, you did not put to the vote a separate amendment made by Mustafa Nayem not to include Olesia Long to the deputy heads of the committee. At the same time, we asked to put it to a vote. In this regard, I demand a return to the voting of this decree in accordance with the Law on the Rules, a vote on it. If this isn't done, I'm going to block the rostrum and ask my colleague to join. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u219	Thank you. I am ready to put all that is in line with the Ukrainian Law on the Rules and Laws of Ukraine. Now, please give me an article of the law, part of the law on which I have to make a vote. I'd like to ask the people's deputies, given your right to legislative initiative, to submit a draft ruling to the committees on any issue. Thank you, dear fellows, for moving on. Please move on. Dear colleagues! We have several other regulations (registration number 1282). Please read. Dear fellow national MPs! [[B in m in s a l in]] Draft Decision on changes in the administrative structure of the Donetsk Region, modification and establishment of the boundaries of the area of Artemov, Donetsk Region, No. 1282. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we'll do it this way. You can sit down. The question was a non-personal vote. I have not heard of what kind of decision, or two questions, have been united in general. So I suggest you do it now. Vote two decrees according to the order of the day in Donbas. And the third question to go back to the committee ruling is 1290. 1291. And in the end, we'll vote on it. Is that how it's done? Let's put forward two rulings on Donbas, and at the end of the session, we'll vote on 1291. Okay? Thank you. Take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Your Honor. Draft Decree (registration No. 1282) Project Order on change in the administrative and territorial structure of the Donetsk Region, modification and establishment of the boundaries of the Artemov region of the Donetsk Region. It's a technical decision. Is there a need for discussion? None. The reporter doesn't insist. There's only one thing I can see. No, no, I see there's a word. Please, the people's representative of Taruta. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u220	Honourable deputies, in general, have the same meaning as two orders 1283 and 1284. This will be necessary for us to include them in the budget next year. But this does not take into account the opinion of the community, because the Cermalica Council voted in favour of joining the Voddar region, the Voddar Region voted in favour of joining the Voddar region, and this is not taken into account. And Graduation and Sopino are in Mariupola, in Mariupola, and we join him in Volnovah. That's why he was a resident of Volnovaha. Grapes and Sopino were coming out, and they want to join Mariupol. Therefore, it will have to be finalized by Tuesday and adopted on Tuesday. There is no objection to the Artemovo region. One more amendment will have to be made, it will be temporary for the inhabitants of these areas to understand that we are not abandoning them, but we are temporarily changing the territorial boundaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, the reporter is asking for two minutes. I would like to point out that these issues have been put to the vote, including committee consideration, and so it will be put to the vote. So I'd like to ask the deputies to understand that. Please, please, Irina Heratchenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished colleagues, well, look, this is the first decision for today that does not apply to the distribution of committees, portfolios, and it applies to people. Two, two. Same here, yeah. It concerns specific people, it's thousands, it's tens of thousands of people who don't get their salaries and pensions for a few months, and, frankly, Mr. Taruta, honored by me, they don't care what area they're going to belong to, they're going to get their salaries and pensions. So we can't delay here until Tuesday, by Wednesday, we have to accept it now, not in the first reading, but in general, because this decision is actually made now by the government of the Donetsk, because only they can give the cards and the corresponding information to the Supreme Council, and we can prepare. And the second. It's done according to the medications that the head of the Lugansk Moscow administration made the appropriate decision, and we took it at the last meeting of the seventh vocation, the seventh Supreme Council of the seventh vocation. And so now we just have to vote that thousands of people, and that's 25 of the population of the four districts today, are going to thank us that they're going to unlock the financing of wages and social pay, and the financing of hospitals and schools. So I suggest we not delay this. Keep going. Specially for you, Mr. Sergei. It's decided on the profile committee that the Cabinet of Ministers will clarify these boundaries that you're talking about, who they're going to belong to. So this question will now be voted on by both the decision and the decision of the profiling committee. So I'm asking you to give one word right now to the reporter, a co-reporter from the profile committee. Thank you to the Self-Government Committee for being so quick to consider. And I ask all the halls to support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u223	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Please, co-reporter Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich National MP, committee member.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee fully supported the proposal, the initiative of the national deputies. But as a result of consideration, he proposes to accept the outcome of the first reading as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the following suggestions made by the committee. The second draft of the decision should be drafted in such a way. "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its powers, ensure the coordination of the activities of the executive authorities and local self-government bodies related to the change and establishment of the borders of the Artemian region of the Donetsk Region. And complete the draft regulation with paragraph 3 of the content of "control over the implementation of this decision to place on the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government". A request for support. And, Vladimir Borisovich, we're looking at two at the same time or at the same time.? Vladimir Borisovich, two. Two, two at the same time. The same applies to the second decree concerning the boundaries of the Donetsk region, New Azores, and Thelmanov regions of the Donetsk region. The same points should be added in this edition of the Cabinet of Ministers, within the limits of the powers to ensure coordination of the actions of the executive authorities and local self-government bodies related to the change and establishment of the boundaries of the Volnova region and the respective borders of the Nouveau region and the Telmanovo region of the Donetsk Region. And the third item is "Controlling the implementation of this decision to place on the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 1282) on the basis and overall, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Please put to the vote, please vote. On the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. [[14:54:16]] For 288 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. It's the same determination that doesn't need co-reports. Registration number 1283, reporter Irina Heratchenko, co-reporter of Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. I'll put it to a vote, please. It'll prepare the changes, and we'll make it. I don't see any problems. Please put to the vote. On the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote. [[14:54:54]] For 287 Against 0, holding back - 1, not voting - 40. If there are changes and additions to the settlement of this issue, in accordance with the legislation, register the draft regulation, discuss the committee and determine by voting. Thank you, Your Honor. Next. in accordance with article 45. The non-personal vote, which was defined, I, article five, 47, should put to the vote draft regulation number 1291 again. I ask the deputies to prepare themselves. And I'm putting the vote back on the motion. in general, approval as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's no need to go back to the Rules as far as I can see. Look what it says: "In case. I'll take care of it. delete." Yes: "The plenary shall hold a re-voting session on the proposal that was put to the last vote." Okay, let's get back to question 1291. Please, who wants to go back to 1291, please vote. To return. [[B in m in s a l in]] Back to 1291. [[14:56:34]] For 244 We're back. And now not in general, considering the correction. What's our procedure, the regulatory committee? Please comment. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u226	Dear Mr. Head, if there is evidence of non-personal voting, the chairman of the meeting must establish the fact that the person voted for is absent. You need to understand the person for whom the vote took place, and now you need to make public the person in the room. If this is not possible, you should assign this procedure to the Counting Commission. I think the first one is more decent, fast and comfortable. In that case, if this fact is proved, then you must put the matter to the vote again in order for the Supreme Council to be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u227	I beg you, Svetlana Zalitschuk, National Deputy, to testify.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, we have a video that was made by a five-channel journalist, recorded that Igor Brichenko of the People's Front voted nonpersonally three times today. For who, I can't say. Do we have information for whom? It can be considered on camera, but unfortunately you can't decrypt the video that quickly, it'll take a while to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u229	Everything, there's a fixed video, we'll see about that. In fact, we need to know what to do with you, Your Honor, how you're going to testify to the fact that you're not personally voting. And this is a matter for consideration in the regulatory committee, and then we'll understand what procedure for determining who didn't vote personally and still, according to the 47th article, then we go back, the Counting Commission removes the card and we vote. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u230	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, please have a moment of your attention. As soon as the Supreme Council voted on the issue, to return to decision 1291 for my authorship. We can't break up with you without re-voting for this decision, because it turns out that the decision is not adopted and the figures of January 16 continue to hold positions. I strongly protest these manipulations. So I'm asking you, as Head of the Supreme Council, at the request of a fellow MP from the Powder Block, to raise the issue of voting as a whole in this Order 1291, a personal vote taking into account the amendment of Najem to this ruling in the ruling of the Long Collegiate. Then it will be the right decision in accordance with the Rules. If you put a question to the committee right now, if Lesik stays in office, it would be a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u231	Thank you. Because the national deputy Long was named. Please, one minute. Then Paul Pinzenik. One minute, please. You don't have any more time. One minute, don't waste time. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Deputy Longey, Kirovograd district, 102 constituency. A person you know, and a person you know, unfortunately. [[B in m in s a l in]] A person who, unfortunately, is known for much of the false information. I want to say that I have one question for my colleagues from the Dust Block, who went under the terms "Time to Join": what exactly is the sign that you want the Long fellow to be included in this decision? The Deputy Long First Deputy of the Supreme Council and did not vote in favour of any laws on January 16th, or any laws in this room at all. The other one. Deputy Long won the election in front of you, where you unfortunately lost them. And you don't have any evidence base. [[B in m in s a l in]] But the third. I want to tell you one thing, my friends: I don't hold on to this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u233	I'm asking the MPs to calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, Oleg Valeriovich! Calm down! Calm down! Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, look here, dear fellows, we're about to do two things. One: we are now, I will put to the vote the proposal of the National MP, you will determine this proposal, and then if it is approved it will be, and if it is not approved, it will only mean what you have voted and the will of the Ukrainian National Deputies is the law. So the only thing that a person, a Ukrainian national MP who has exactly the same rights as everyone else, asks for words. I have to give him one more minute, and I'm doing it. And then I'm going to put a motion to the vote. But please don't interrupt, one minute! One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u234	Friends, I ask the respect of the entire session room for the right of every MP in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, if today is the only sign that individual colleagues consider it necessary to exclude me as a candidate for economic science. [[B in m in s a l in]] As a substitute for the Economic Committee, there's one thing I've been working with Chernevski, and I have to admit. Dear friends, that's how I really worked with Chernewsky. Dear friends, have there been any violations of the rules in fact during my management? Yes, there were. Dear friends, why did I come to this session room?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u235	I asked the national deputies to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u236	Protect yourself from immunity? No! No! I worked for 10 years without a committee and without immunity. [[B in m in s a l in]] All I'm going to ask you to do is follow my work today, monitor the quality and number of my legislative initiatives, watch out. And give me the opportunity to answer for my actions. Do not make political conclusions, for tomorrow this will apply to each of you. Because that's where it was made for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, you know what I'm trying to tell you. Dear colleagues, what you are shouting, you are thus stressing your weakness. Calm down. The Ukrainian national deputy had a word, he said. Let me finish, 30 more seconds, please, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u238	How much can you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u239	Calm down, calm down, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u240	Thief. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't embarrass Parliament with these thieves! Kiev has stolen! Earth. Get out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please. I ask you to return to your seats. I will now put to the vote the proposal of National Deputy Mustafa Nayem, which he will now announce once again. I would like to give the floor to Mustafa Najem to make a proposal. Please. Wait, we need to figure out the offer. One minute. Take your seat, please. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u242	Dear colleagues, I'm simply asking you to correct the mistake that happened when you made a decision on these committees after we first voted. This amendment was made by Yuri Lucenko at the time about the exclusion of Mr. Long from the governing board of economic development. Economic Development. Economic issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u243	No, it's not. Why didn't he get into the transcript? Because Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko said to expel the local self - government committee, so there was a mistake in his proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u244	Now, please make an amendment to this ruling to exclude Mr. Long from the Deputy Head of the Economic Committee. It's about economic policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-11-m0.u245	I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of National Deputy Najem. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[15:05:45.]] For 228 Decision taken. Against - 1, holding - 9, not voting - 71. Dear National Deputies! I put in general, on the basis of and in general, a draft regulation (1291) with an amendment that has just been voted by the National MP Mustafa Nayem. Please vote on the basis and in general as amended. [[15:06:24]] For 252 Against 2, held – 5, not voted – 51 national deputies. Decision taken, my dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, I have good news for you if you're ready to hear it. Today’s schedule is exhausted, and I close the morning session and announce the next Friday morning’s 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you, dear fellows of the national MPs of Ukraine.
