ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to take your seats. We can start our work. Good afternoon again, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for taking your seats. We'll register with you now. And I'm asking you to turn on the "Race" system. Please prepare the national deputies carefully for registration. Please register, distinguished national MPs. Let's register. [[10:04:18]] 370 national deputies in the hall. That means we can start our work. First of all, I'd like you and I to welcome our colleague with our birthday, the National Deputy of Ukraine Murrayev Eugene Volodymyrovich. Let's give it up for tradition. [[Applause]] Good luck with your job. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to report with great regret that on Monday 1 December, a well-known Ukrainian writer, a member of the December 1 initiative, Ukrainian political prisoner Eugene Sverstük, died of a prolonged illness in the 86th century. Please honor the memory with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, on November 27, we held our first session with you, solemnly sworn. But we have national deputies who for good reason could not do so. And I would like to inform you that, on 19 and 28 November, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputies elected for the October 26, 2014, election, namely: Maria Vasilovna Matios, who was included in the election list of the Party "Block of Petra Prashenko" under number 7, and Sergio Jaroslavovich Rudik, selected in the one-maned 198 constituency. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath, I invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mathios María Vasilovna, to the rostrum. Please, Reverend Mary Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Congratulations, Reverend Mary Vasilovna, on taking an oath. And I would also like to invite you to the speech of Ukrainian National Deputy Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. Please, Sergey Jaroslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m0.u4	I, Sergey Rudik, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and all laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Hello. Welcome to the National Deputies. We wish you success in our work together. I would like to ask the non-fractional National Deputies to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for membership of the Committees of the Supreme Council so that we can form fully all the working bodies of Parliament. And we also need, honourable colleagues, to form a quality professional government of Ukraine, we need to do everything we can to ensure that our dynamic beginning of our work since November 27 is confirmed, because there are extremely serious challenges in our country. And we understand that at such a responsible moment, both the government of Ukraine and the parliament must act in an orderly, qualitative and professional manner. Therefore, I would now like to propose to support the coalition's initiative and to begin consultations on the submission of nominations for approval by the government as well as the committees of the Ukrainian Parliament, and to announce a recess by 12.30, and to make statements at 16 hours, as provided for by the Supreme Council's Rules. Thank you. Break until 12 o'clock 30 minutes. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m0.u6	As was the announcement of a recess until 12:30, we can continue our work. I'm asking you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the session room. We will continue our work. I'd like to invite the faction leaders to my deputies' hall. So, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that we have just had consultations with the leaders of the coalition's MP factions, and we have been discussing the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the personal composition of the Supreme Council Committees. Almost all of the questions, I want to inform you in advance about the solution, but there are a few other issues that need to be reconciled. So we need a period of time to complete this work. We all realize that the issue of the formation of the Ukrainian government needs to be addressed today. We don't have time, and society won't wait. So now, taking into account the previous work that has been done, I would like to propose that we continue our evening plenary session until the conclusion of this vital issue for Ukraine. In this regard, in accordance with article 5. Part five of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to continue our evening plenary session until the question of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is concluded. Please vote. Please vote, fellow nationals. Please vote. [[12:36:17]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I also want to inform you. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 123, People's Front – 81, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 30, Radical Party – 22, Father's Party – 18, Will of the People – 8, Economic Development – 2. I would also like to inform you that, with a view to resolving the issue of the coalition, in accordance with the legislation, the Prime Minister of Ukraine's proposal for candidates for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be held at 3 p.m. in the Plenary Hall. In this regard, I would ask the factions to coordinate the work of members of the coalition and to hold such a meeting. I would also like to inform you, my dear friends, that the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 4 p.m. and the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
