ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! 16 hours, we have to start our work according to previous decisions, so I'd ask you to take your seats in the hall, and we can start our work. Before we go to the speeches of authorized MP factions, I'd like to make some announcements. But I'd like to ask my colleagues to concentrate with you -- an extremely responsible day today -- and I believe that it will be successful enough. Please sit down, distinguished national MPs. The evening session is open. I'm asking you to start the registration procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please register, Your Honor, register. [[16:07:25]] 343 people's deputies. I would ask the faction leaders to invite their members of the factions to the Supreme Council Hall so that we can work as effectively as possible. So I want to make a few announcements according to these statements. Today, we have sworn to the National Deputy Maria Vasilovna Matios, and according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mathios María Vasilovna, into the party's deputy faction, Peter Poroshenko. [[Applause]] Next. In accordance with articles 59, 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 27 November 2014, the plenary session announced the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call of the MP group "Will of the People" composed of 19 Ukrainian national deputies. Since the withdrawal from the protocol of the parliamentary group’s congregations allowed for a discrepancy with the list of members of the parliamentary group, the signatures of the 20 national deputies show. I'm reporting that there are 20 Ukrainian MPs in the "will of the people". Next. According to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Negoya Fedor Fedorovich, into the party's deputy faction, "Block of Peter Poroshenko". [[Applause]] In accordance with article 60 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association for Kharkiv in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To freedom!".. The head of the interfractional MPs' union "For Harks! For Allah's cause." elected National Deputy of Ukraine Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich. On this, the honourable colleagues, the announcement is complete. And according to Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and the supply groups, the announcements and the announcements. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Please sign up for the performance. We've got six people on the show from factions and groups. The first is Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, please. Victor Vasilovich, to the show. People's Will Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! The "will of the people" group is based on the vote of Ukrainian citizens today representing more than 10 percent of Ukrainian citizens who voted for the 20 national deputies present in this room. I want to point out right away: the virtually absolute majority of these deputies took decisive steps in their time and came to this room on February 20th, voted in order to bring back the democratic constitutions in the country; to overthrow the former active regime, and to allow for the formation of the new Supreme Council, which is present today; and to express the views of the citizens who have delegated us to represent their interests. First of all, we are concerned about the specific problems of people who are in the day - to - day order and who cannot be left out of the rostrum in this room. This is about pension reform, about abolishing the reform that has been done, and what has been done. We insist that it be reviewed and repealed and returned to former legislation. This is about reviewing again, once again, the Heritage Act and going back to reviewing this law in part so that it will enter into force, not since 2016, but since 2015. Plus, we're asking questions about how to transfer the right to do notatory work on rural councils, so that people don't run around the offices in the districts, and that the change in the inheritance doesn't cost as much as it's forced for all Ukrainian citizens to pay today. We're asking questions about getting back to the village and providing 100% funding for all the necessary subsidies for rural areas, reviewing the rent rates for pies so that people in the village actually start getting the money they deserve for allowing them to use their land. We raise the question of going back to actual funding in the rural areas of medicine, education. About putting a taboo on the closure of rural medicine to reenact rural education and not to close the school. We're raising questions about decentralization, real decentralization, which is a lot to talk about in order to get the money back into the area. Individually, we ask questions about the issue of childbearing assistance and the maintenance of a child by the age of three. That repeal of the standards that took place on July 1st led to the fact that today there is really no way for everyone to support and support their children. We understand that all these projects can be done. and problems to solve only when the industrial potential of Ukraine is restored. A completely new economic model needs to be put in place to raise industry and allow taxes to be collected for social benefits. It is a matter of concern to us in particular that today, once again, there are manipulations of the Constitution, the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u4	The Supreme Council Rules, the Constitution, are being manipulated. And once again, the hall is trying to divide by white and black, by. review how committees are formed, how committees are formed. There are constitutional norms, and we demand that they be implemented, and that there be a perfectly fair distribution of committees. The distribution of normal approaches to who is represented by the branch to get these people on the respective committees. We're not talking about jobs, we're talking about everyone having the right to get into that committee, into that profile branch that a person deals with and cares for. So our group requires a separate meeting with the Chief of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, so that we can consolidate our positions and bring the work of the Supreme Council back to a civilized democratic path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u5	Thank you. Please, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! I welcome everyone with the beginning of the eighth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this call to parliament, we represent the parliamentary group "Economic Development", which was part of the European Choice coalition in the last call of the Supreme Council. The main task that we see before us is to continue working to restore peace, develop the country, its economy and raise social standards. I want to remind you that the parliamentary group "Economic Development" joined the democratic forces of Parliament on February 20-21 this year. It was thanks to the votes of the Economic Development Group and the One Sovereign Ukraine that we made the majority, where there were 260 people's deputies, 70 of whom belonged to these two MPs. As part of the European Choice coalition, we elected a new government, voted in favour of the President's presidential election earlier, upheld the legitimacy and legitimacy of the new power for Ukraine's European future, condemned the annexation of Crimea and Separatism. Why did I stop at that today? No one then complained about January 16 but, rather, supported the courageous and patriotic stand of those who, in fact, became an integral part of the legitimacy of the new pro-European authority and the overthrow of the Yanukovic regime. Today, Parliament has been renewed, new people have come, ready for work and determined action. That's very good. But right now, during the distribution of committees and positions, the January 16 issue became a good topic for speculation. Why is this being done? In our view and belief, this is done to prevent members who do not belong to the coalition majority from taking some place. Today, the situation is different: more than 300 members of the coalition, and there is probably no need for these factions. But perhaps we should be honest and honest, and what brought us together? What brought us together in the European Choice coalition? And what did these deputies do, and how will history appreciate the step that the deputies took on the night of February 20? On February 21, when President Janukovic was still in office and all went to support European values, they voted in favour of the resignation of the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the President, elected a new government, adopted a new Constitution, and went along with the new coalition. We've become co-founders of this coalition. There's a trade coming, there's speculation going on, and it's like these people have already completed their mission. I mean, it's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u7	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u8	If there's such a belief that we've accomplished our mission, it's no big deal. We didn't join the parliamentary coalition. But we will support those decisions that benefit the state that benefit our people, who are major. which represent virtually all regions of Ukraine. And we will condemn the populism that is now emerging in Parliament. Unfortunately, the large factions that have been in the past parliament are now coming about in small factions that are actually dictated by will. Let's speak honestly to each other, and we have the opportunity to stop these speculations, the discussion and get to constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u9	Thank you. Regulation. Dear, distinguished fellow national MPs! I'd like to follow the rules. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, Opposition Block. Please, three minutes is time, I'm asking you to hold on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Following these tragic events in the country, society expected the formation of both legislative and executive authorities to proceed openly, transparently, and in compliance with all the regulations and laws of Ukraine. Sadly, today we see that this has not happened. We meet once again the culinary night agreements, violations of the Rules, laws and Constitution of Ukraine, and as a result for the Opposition Block today, we see that there is an effort to remove the opposition forces from participating, as a minimum, in participating in the legislative body of Parliament. And it's not that any of the 40 deputies elected on the political block of "The Opposition Block" are not going to get any positions. The point is, from our point of view, there is an attempt to take away from the political life of one and a half million people who voted for our political power, who hope that we and they will also participate in the political life of our country. So the opposition must be in the country, the opposition should play the role of control. And we will demand that our rights and the rights of our fellow countrymen, who have chosen us, be respected. As far as the political party's position is concerned, the opposition bloc is voting for the government. We will not vote in favour of the candidates for ministers, this is our position, because, above all, we do not understand why among the 300 members of the ruling coalition, especially among the 40 million people living in Ukraine, there were no 10 candidates for ministers who would be citizens of Ukraine or as minimum ethnic Ukrainians. That's why the opposition party won't vote in favour of the government that's being proposed. And finally. Today we have completed the signing and found 45 votes for our deputies to sign a petition to the Constitutional Court regarding the repeal of Presidential Decree 875/2014, which practically created the economic blockade of Donbas. We hope that our justice will give people who live in areas beyond our control a chance to get support from the state and to hear that the state cares and helps them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u11	Please, Barna Oleg Stepanovich, the Peter Dust Block. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, it is a great pleasure for us today to say that the Parliament of the present calling will not live in a system of coalitions and spikeriads. And all of us together have created a situation where there will be a government in a short period of time that will fulfill its obligations to the people and to the electorate that we gave in the elections. It is a pleasure for us, as the president's teams, that our idea of starting with a fundamental and serious coalition agreement, not on two sides of the promise, was supported. And we have a very serious document that is the foundation of the European Ukraine coalition, which hopefully will form the foundation of the government. At the same time, our advice to the new young deputies who were drawn here: friends, let us not die or give up our lives for positions! Because it seems that there are groups who are willing to give their lives for positions. For Ukraine, let us give our lives for our territory, not for the heads of committees or ministers! So our faction supports all of the government candidates who, by the way, were first discussed in factions. It's not an easy discussion in our faction: questions are answers. And I don't think they're hiding from us. They'll be reporting here in the session room, on the committees. And if the question becomes that this person is not coping, he will be released as he is being appointed today. Second position. Our faction requires a new government that will be created today, within December, a draft budget and a programme of government activities. By the end of December, we have to vote in favour of the local budgets. The country cannot afford luxury to play and fight for positions when there is no government, no budget, no program of action for the following year. There should be no day of rest for Parliament and the government. If we have to, we'll cancel the New Year. We won't cancel Christmas. But we will work until the things we promised will be done. I want to tell the opposition brothers that these ethnic Ukrainians who are sitting in Rostov, better help foreigners. Because those ethnic Ukrainians of yours ripped the country apart and moved everything out of the country at night, along with gold, lovers, and dogs from Ukraine. So I think we need to have in government those people who have conscience, dignity and professional skill. Then we will have both a proper government, a normal parliament, and a real state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u13	Thank you. Please welcome to the words of Zhdanova Igor Alekseiovich, the "Fatherland" union. Sobolev, please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! I think today is the historic moment when we need to determine the key direction of the state's development. What, literally in two days, the 300-vote coalition was able to agree on the candidates as ministers, vice-premiers and allow the Prime Minister to begin to implement the coalition action programme that we approved. This is a unique moment, and I think, and our "Fatherland" faction, which is exactly what we have to stop from doing today and start working both in Parliament and in the government. This must be the key moment of our work. Regarding the statement of opposition against the ethnic Ukrainians. What about ethnic Russians, Tatars, Jews, Georgians, Armenians who together build a sovereign independent state? What do you suggest they do, Your Honor? More specifically, it is not respectable to try from the early days to share this hall with one another according to ethnicity. I think the key question for us today is professional patriots who need to understand what responsibility is placed both on the Supreme Council Hall and on the government and on local government administrations. In order for the country to immediately begin the process of coming out of the terrible crisis that has been led by so - called rulers, who are not in Ukraine today, but are hiding in Russia from the crimes they have committed against the people of Ukraine and the Ukrainian State. We would like to see today a vote to appeal to the official authorities of the Russian Federation that hold dozens of our prisoners of war and political captivity in the prisons of the Russian Federation, This is true of our colleague in the Parliament of Hope Savechenko, this is true of many, many others, and this is true of the hundreds of prisoners who are in the hands of the terrorists under the Russian Federation's FSB, and who are thus far, without regard to the Minsk Accords, are still not released. That's why the Fatherland faction insists that today's process of forming authorities be completed so that today we can start planning our work for the next few weeks. And this is the order of changes to the Constitution, this is the order of changes to the judicial system, because those 360 judges who are fleeing the judiciary today, understanding their responsibility for what they have done under pressure or at their own request, this is only the beginning of the court's illustration process. Similarly, we face the most difficult task of adopting the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u15	Let me finish. Please have a rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u16	and changes to tax legislation. That is why the proposal that has now been made – an hour for recess – and then the vote on the positions of ministers and the formation of a final government, and the formation of all committees, gives us the opportunity today to complete the process of forming all authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have another Hungarian speaker, Paul Unguryan, the People's Front. Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich will perform. Then we'll give Oleg Lazka three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u18	Dear National Deputies! Our country is experiencing the most dramatic stage in its history. The cynical, violent aggression of the Russian Federation continues against Ukraine, which continues to war with the entire arsenal of weapons of mass destruction. In order to confront such an aggressor who has one of the most powerful armies in the world, we need the mobilization of the whole country, all of our efforts and, above all, the mobilization of efforts and the merger of deputies of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. We must feel the responsibility that the Ukrainian people have placed on us. And today, a very important decision that is bound to be taken by Parliament and not to depart until this decision is made is the formation of a new Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers, which will work in conditions where no Ukrainian government has worked -- I emphasize -- has worked under conditions where a new government will work, which I hope today will be voted on in this room. These are challenges and military, economic, international, these are challenges that we must provide legislatively with you, and the government must implement an economic programme that will stop Ukraine from sliding into a crisis that will ensure the military victory and liberation of Ukrainian land is a serious, responsible task. And that's why, dear fellows, today we have to stop trying to push each other, the factions. We have to stop trying to get some extra job. We must today make clear our position on the representatives we put forward in the Cabinet of Ministers, unanimously supporting the Prime Minister's proposal to form a new government. You can take an hour off, you can take two hours off, you can take a break, but, friends, believe me in half an hour, an hour, talking to a candidate for a government position, I'm not convinced that you can conclude that he's willing to work in such difficult conditions. That is why the foundation for the formation of a new coalition government should be the trust between the coalition factions. And when a coalition faction assumes responsibility for this man, we must support him. I reiterate that this should be the unanimous vote of all the deputies who joined the coalition. I hope that non-faction MPs will also support the newly elected government. Only shared responsibility and joint action will ensure our common victory. Thank you. I suggest that we start working on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers without delay or delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! I won't say anything new. I'm just supporting the previous speakers. We live in a historic moment. We live in historical times. Our decisions, the coordinated actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, the President's fate depends on the future. And our responsibility is not to leave this hall until we choose a good government. It's absolutely irresponsible in terms of war, in terms of economic collapse to trade for jobs and not have a legitimate government in our country. And we're not going to give our opponents who call themselves opposition, we're not going to give you any reason to make fun of them, wipe your hands to the mosses, and rejoice, to think we can't do anything! We're all gonna make it. It didn't work out for you. You've ruined the country. Now we have to build it behind you, sew it up, protect it. And when you talk about pension payments, we'll send you in couriers to a territory that's been taken over by terrorists! So you can get those pensions! [[Applause]] Because you can't get the mailmen there because of you, you can't get the savings machines there. Because your lieutenants are robbing those cars and stealing from our citizens, the residents of Donbass, these pensions, these salaries, these social aids. I was happy to hear an announcement that the President had granted Ukrainian citizenship to three candidates for government membership. I'm glad about that. But what I'm saying is that we have in our volunteer battalions for independence, for sovereignty, for the territorial integrity of Ukraine, hundreds of citizens of Russia, Georgia and other citizens are fighting. They need the same thing, I'm calling on Mr. President to give Ukrainian citizenship to these people who, with guns in their hands, risk their lives to protect Ukrainian independence. Especially in the Idar battalion of Yule Holop, and there are no such citizens in Ukraine more than 15 in other volunteer battalions. We ask the President to give these heroes Ukrainian citizenship in the same way. Well, finally. Journalists ask me, they run, they don't let me through, so how do you feel about what foreign citizens have offered to the government? We're fine with that, Radical Party. But what we're saying is, don't make foreign professionals panic over all the trouble. I want to tell you that in Ukraine there are millions of young boys, girls who have a degree in higher education in markets, and they have no job and no income. And so young people need to be brought to power and give our people the opportunity to realize themselves. Or we could invite you from all over. Where are we going with unemployed college graduates, school graduates, and so on? Glory to Ukraine! And we vote for the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Oleg Barresuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u22	Your Honour, Mr. Head, the noble fellow MPs! We can't leave this room with you today without voting for the government to run this country. This is the responsibility of the legislative branch of authority. An apocryphal, undeniable statement. But we have to take responsibility with you today, not with slogans that we hear for 24 years, not with slogans, colleagues, people don't believe in these slogans anymore, although they sound very attractive, but with professional work, cooperation as a legislative professional branch of power that didn't exist for 10 years, to work on people. So, honourable people, honourable deputies, those who don't participate in the talks at the level of the coalition council, those who are well-waiting in the corridors of their destiny, to which I press the button, I turn to you. I'm asking you today, just today, I'm supporting the Lachka faction, Yulia Timoshenko, People's Front, BPP only today for the government, just today, but as worthy citizens and a professional deputy, not because they said so from above. This is a responsible thing for the first time in 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u23	Thank you. I think that today the Ukrainian Parliament is showing quite different approaches to publicizing the appointment of ministers, to public discussion, to communication. So I am convinced that every deputy present in this room is determined that Ukraine today needs a quality professional government. And those proposals that the Prime Minister's Coalition has passed on to the Prime Minister and that the Prime Minister has put forward for consideration by the MPs deserve our respect and support, because all the speakers have said that the situation is very difficult. And that's true. So we have to be responsible, we have to do everything we can not only to talk but to work. And for us, this is a principled approach. So let's talk about it. If we're ready to start voting now, we can do it. If more communication is needed, we can invite ministers here or announce another recess now. But I want to emphasize. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, I would like to emphasize that this will be the final break in the formation of the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a proposal to put to the vote, or we continue to work without interruption. Yeah? Please, Oleg Barresuk, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, attention, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u24	Self-help faction, Oleg Barresuk. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your support for the self-help party's position, the faction, to announce a one-hour recess to redesign the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u25	Dear national deputies, with deep respect to each of us, to every one of us present in this room I propose, and I will use this right as chairman, and an announcement break for one hour. But what I'm stressing is that this is the hour, I would like to make the most of it, because after this hour we're starting to vote on the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. One hour! Thank you for your attention. Break for one hour. I would ask coalition representatives, coalition factions to stay in the hall to continue their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, recess is over. I ask everyone to take their seats and we will continue our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, we begin our work, or we continue if we are more precise. Please have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please, come in, come into the hall. I'd like to ask you to invite the deputies to the hall. Thank you. We can continue our work, dear colleagues. I'd like your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to invite you to the Presidential Hall of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Welcome to the President. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with articles 85, 106 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Minister of Defence of Ukraine are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine brought to the Supreme Council an application for the appointment of Paul Anatoliyovich Klimkin as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and Stephen Timfiyovich Poltorak as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u27	My dear Ukrainian people! Distinguished People's Deputies! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! There is no more important task now than to protect the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of our state. Of course, that's what our famous warriors do first, but I can stress that diplomats are also the protectors of the country. Yes, they don't have weapons in their hands, and very rarely, bullets whistle over their heads, but their front lines cross the entire planet -- they mobilize the whole world to support Ukraine in our fight against external aggression. And it's hard to even imagine what would happen if it wasn't for a global coalition that supports Ukraine in its holy struggle. Diplomatic routs do not occur in appearance and unconsecrated, sometimes it seems that the key international decisions concerning Ukraine are decided on their own. And anything is concerned: the signing of the Association Agreement with the European Union or the sanctions that the EU Council, which the United States of America, the Great Seven countries are taking against the aggressor or the decision to help Ukraine, all of this is achieved by means of a brief, persistent diplomatic work. And let's not forget: our friend also has his diplomats who rely on a powerful external political financial, informational, security resource. And they work, too, trying to multiply our efforts by zero. But it's free, because the truth is on our side, and the whole world today is clearly demonstrating it. And that is why Ukraine today has strong world support, and the aggressor remains isolated. Paul Klimkin led the foreign political party in June. In less than six months he proved himself to be the right person at the right time. I can firmly say that I am satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I see that society has no claim to it either. There is no reason to change the minister now, so I firmly believe that I am doing the right thing when I apply for approval as Foreign Minister for the second half of the year. [[Applause]] Paul Klimkin stood at the mouth of the Association Agreement, having a direct share in the negotiations on each arrangement. It seems to me that on the night of Paul’s awakening, Anatolyovich will remember to quote the entire paragraphs of this covenant. And if we have in front not only protection against military aggression but also the problem of implementing the Agreement, it is also confirmation that Paul Anatolyevich is the right person at the right time in the right place. To him, this Agreement is not just an international treaty, but it is, without a doubt, part of his life and work of honor. And in this I see the guarantee for the implementation of the Association Agreement will be properly secured. This is and remains a priority for Ukraine, for the coalition, and for the foreign minister. We need to step up the pace of a visa-free dialogue with the European Union. We promised this to our fellow citizens in 2015 and, though broken, the promise must be fulfilled. There is no more justification for not immediately getting a report on the completion of Ukraine’s visa-free regime obligations and a decision on the visa-free regime with regard to Ukrainian citizens with the European Union must be made at the Risk Summit in May. [[Applause]] In doing so, efforts must be doubled and tripled to provide strong international support in protecting Ukraine from an external aggressor. The organization of military technical assistance, and this work has to be done at both bilateral and multilateral levels, both in relations with individual countries and with the single system of Euro-Atlantic security. And the achievement of the criteria for membership in the European Union is no longer just the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the common cause of the entire government and of the entire Supreme Council, and of the President. And I'm sure our work together will demonstrate effective results. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u28	Dear National Deputies! I think we can move on to the decision-making process, and you've been given a draft decision. Number 1166. I'd like to prepare for the vote. Please vote on the draft Decision on the appointment of Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovitch as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please vote, honourable national deputies, on the basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[17:58:42]] For 351 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Welcome to Pavel Anatolyovich. Let's move on to the following issue of the agenda: the draft Order for the appointment of Ukrainian Defence Minister Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u29	Masterful colleagues! You all remember how not only was the candidate for the Secretary of Defense selected. I was even advised that until the completion of the terms of office of the former Supreme Council, I should not then submit the candidacy of Stephen Timothy Poltorak. The situation in the Armed Forces was terrible. As early as April, the war in June came suddenly and we weren't quite ready for it, including in personnel matters. I can firmly testify that within a month and a half, Stepan Timothyovich proved the absolute correctness of my decision to propose to the Supreme Council that he be appointed Minister of Defence. We're with you, and I'm also asking you to confirm the validity of this decision and now by unanimous vote, and to agree with this assessment, because the energy and zeal that the new minister has embarked on reforming the ministry, who knows, it's a convincing witness, it can't help but be impressed. The main thing is that under a colossal burden accumulated over a decade of problems, it did not run out too quickly. It's very important, and I'm stressing this, that at last out-of-system people are involved in reforming the system, because that's the only way to make real changes. So, according to my insistence at the Ministry of Defense, a Council of Volunteers was created. Council members and I have been with them recently. I've been seeing them recently, working in four directions: supplies, repairs of military equipment, purchase of optical devices and communication, military medicine. In particular, it is the cooperation of the military to provide food. Each department in Minobron, responsible for the supply, will have two representatives from volunteer organizations. More than 50 officials at the Ministry of Defence and General Staff have been relieved of their duties. People who have access to material resources and state secrets will pass a lie detector. The lie detector also led to all volunteers who were offered to work in departments. I can point out that 25 percent of volunteers did not pass the lie detector. And that's normal. And this has to be the absolute norm for other assignments. In order to work on new management practices, transparent procedures for the calculation and delivery of property, progressive logistics approaches have been initiated with worldwide-known companies Pricewaterhouse Coopers and ".".. And we're about to get professional major audit firms to improve the efficiency of individual departments of the Ministry of Defence. International experts will be able to diagnose the activities of individual companies and state-owned enterprises. No one will remain out of effective and transparent control. All companies that are part of the Department of Defense's administration will also be analysed by external outsourcing for their efficiency, their economic activity. All these new and innovative approaches should help to address the main task of the Ministry of Defence – the protection of sovereignty, the protection of independence, the protection of the territorial integrity of our state. That is why I strongly urge, dear colleagues, to support the proposal, the candidature of Stephen Timothy Poltorak as Ukraine's defence minister. I'd like to say a few more words that follow the formal and informal procedure of presenting two ministers. I'd like to thank you. To thank those candidates for the new government, who will now, after the Prime Minister's presentation, be represented for your consideration, ask for your support. I'm pleased that the vast majority of them, almost all of them, are who, I believe, will demonstrate completely new qualities of the new Ukrainian government, the worthy new Supreme Council and the new country that we've got after Maidan, and the new approaches. After my call from this rostrum in the country, there was an active discussion about whether or not to invite foreigners to join the government. For example, I stand firm in the position that we should engage in the best international experience until we are involved in the delegation of representatives from other countries that are friends to Ukraine to the government. [[Applause]] But I would like to speak separately of the thanks and greetings of Natalja Jaresko, a person who is still. was always a Ukraine, a big Ukraine with a big heart. [[Congrats]] But since this morning, my decree has become a citizen of Ukraine, which is powerful. [[Applause]] Mrs. Natalka, all of Ukraine, the Supreme Council thanks you. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] I would like to welcome Ivaras Abramavis, a Lithuanian from today. [[Congrats]] I've been given Ukrainian citizenship by my decree. And the Ukrainian brother of Lithuania, Ivaras Abrahamavisius, will join us in building an independent sovereign and effective country, Ukraine. Thank you for that, Ivaras. [[Applause]] And Alexander Kwiatschvili. [[Applause]] Georgia has always been a close brotherhood to us. And the fact that we will use the experience of the Georgian reforms to reform Ukraine, and this will be done by the Ukrainian Alexander Kwiatschvili, I think that's a very good sign. I welcome you, the Ukrainian Alexander Kwiatschvili. [[Applause]] I want to report that I'm not going to stop at this. [[Applause]] It will be decided that the bill will be brought to your attention after the regulatory procedure has been completed. I hope for his support, but I would like to extend my greetings and greetings to my fighting brothers. Your appeal to the President of Ukraine to grant Ukrainian citizenship to the Belarusians, the Russians, who, with weapons in hand, with you, defended the honour and independence of the state. [[Applause]] As promised, I will sign a decree to give them Ukrainian citizenship. They've been through this test. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u30	Thank you, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, you are now under consideration for the draft Order on the appointment of Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote and vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[18:08:43]] For 347 Decision taken. Welcome, Reverend Minister! Honourable National Deputies, the question of the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is considered by the Supreme Council in accordance with part eight of article 83, paragraph 12 of the first article 85, part four of article 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, according to proposals made by the Coalition of Deputies. Ukrainian Prime Minister Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk submitted a motion under article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine on 2 December 14 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the appointment of candidates for office of Ministers. Dear colleagues, I would now like to invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to represent the candidates. Please, Reverend Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u31	Dear Ukrainian people, Mr. President, Mr. Golovo, the distinguished members of the European Democratic Coalition, which comprises the constitutional majority, the representatives of the parliamentary groups and the opposition! In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Prime Minister submits an application for appointment to all members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, except those who have just been voted and introduced by the President of Ukraine. We have had a difficult but right step in forming a coalition government. In this way, you have suggestions for the formation of a politically responsible government, not a government that is divided by the principle of political quotas. This government is faced with challenges. And not just in front of the government, dear friends. This is the task of all of us. That's what the Ukrainian people chose us to do, that's why the constitutional majority is formed, and that's what we're able to do if there's still a unity between the President of Ukraine, the government and the parliamentary coalition. Briefly on the state of affairs in the state. The country is fraught with war. The country is tired of trade war with Russia. The country is tired, first and foremost, of Russia’s military aggression. The country is tired of political war. The country needs radical changes and reforms. Over the past 8 months, I would like to report to the new members of Parliament what has been done and what needs to be continued. First, in the budget area. The government budget for the maintenance of government equipment is reduced by 2 billion greaves. From this rostrum I also appeal to all members of Parliament immediately: in the new Ukrainian State Budget Act, which should be adopted by the end of this year, there will be a further reduction in expenditure on state apparatus. The other one. The government decided to optimize social spending by 4 and a half billion dollars. And I'm also saying from this rostrum that next year we're going to have to go the way of optimizing social costs, too. Third. The government has decided to increase funding to 19 billion dollars in expenditures on national security and defence. We must continue to finance the costs of national security and defence. Four. We have resumed our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Development and Reconstruction Bank. They often ask the question, where did the loans that Ukraine received go? On the Ministry of Finance’s website, I was obliged to post all the information and inform you. Ukraine’s distinguished national deputies, in general, have received a state of international financial assistance — loans — of $9 billion today. And now I'll tell you how much we've paid off debts that we didn't produce. Taking into account NAC's debt to Naftogaz Ukraine, taking into account the repayment of debt for gas and all external payments, the total amount of money paid by Ukraine is $14 billion at the time of the 9th. We will continue to work with foreign creditors. In 2016, it is not possible to expect private foreign investment inflows, so the basis of investment is international financial organizations, which, like yesterday, signed a 150 million-euro contract for the reconstruction of the Ukrainian gas transport system. From this rostrum two months ago, I asked the Parliament then to vote in favour of the Modernization Act of the Ukrainian GTS to stop the construction of the South Stream and invite investors to the Ukrainian GTS. "South Stream," which was built by Russia, stopped. [[Applause]] So that's what's going on with further cooperation. Dear colleagues, the money is not going to be given to anyone. And that high assessment of our international creditors of the toughness and correctness of the reforms undertaken by Ukraine is, on the one hand, a good estimate, and on the other hand, it does not mean that we have the right to stop. And then it's going to be more complicated, and these are the challenges that we all have to deal with. Fifth, with regard to the revenue of the state budget. Despite the temporary loss of control over the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specific areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, despite the fact that Russian terrorists destroyed infrastructure, mines and factories, primarily in Donbassa, which resulted in a 10 per cent drop in industrial production, a fall in the domestic currency, a state of today's government: the first is an increase in taxes on the most profitable kind of business; the second is the introduction of taxes on passive income; the third is a change in tax administration and collection; and the fourth is the legalization and childization of incomes such as those of the past government in importing petroleum products. Yeah, we didn't get to the numbers we set for ourselves, but plus 5 percent last year. That's why, dear friends, we will continue on this path. Those who earn a lot of money -- that's fair and fair -- have to pay a lot. Those in need of help, including social assistance, will receive such assistance. The principle of justice is a fundamental principle in the work of Ukraine's new government. As far as external debt is concerned. And it's a question that's been asked a lot. Last year’s external debt in the United States was $73.1 billion, with an external debt of $72.9 billion to date. It is for the falling of a currency that is a challenge and that is primarily related to military aggression, and accordingly to the instability and natural behaviour of internal and external investors that the gross debt has a slightly different number. But this is the challenge that we, together with the National Bank, must take and take all measures to stabilize both the exchange rate and the stability of the banking sector. From this high rostrum, I'd like to brief you very briefly on the priority tasks, our joint, by the end of this year. The first task is to adopt a new Code of Budgets, which provides for the transfer of additional financial powers to the premises. The second task is to adopt changes to the Tax Code, which provides for a reduction in the number of taxes and a change in the tax base. The third task is to reduce the only social contribution and introduce a progressive tax scale. And the fourth task that comes out of the first three is the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Surprisingly rigid, with a reduction in every possible article. 2015 will be more complex than the current economy has a time gap What happens on Donbas is too expensive for Ukraine. First of all, it's something you can't turn back. This is the life of our people. As far as the economy is concerned, the economy will have a half-month lie and within six months we will still feel a negative trend. This government must do what Andriy Sheptecki wrote in his famous work "How to Build the House of the Red." It's a foundation. Now we need to build it. This is our shared responsibility to the country, our responsibility for the creation of the Ukrainian state, the future of the country and the future of our citizens. People expect changes from everyone and everyone. And we are ready for the most radical, fiercest and most effective changes and reforms in the country that need today. The mission will be completed. Thank you for your attention. And I'm going to present the members of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u32	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich. Dear colleagues, there have been enough consultations, hearings on the factions of candidates. I'd like to consult you. Is there a need for each of them to act briefly in the rostrum? Thank you. Then we'll do it this way, dear colleagues. Now I'm going to ask you in a row, and I think we're going to give five minutes each candidate. I think they represent themselves. Then from the factions, we ask the question, if it has to be done. Let us continue to consider the decision. Do you have a deal? Before the decision is made. How? Look, there are proposals in the voting room. Vote? Vote. All right, dear fellows, let's do it this way. The Prime Minister expressed his position on the government. There are government officials in the cabinet. They will form a government program and present it here. Every Friday we have an hour of questions to the government. Tomorrow will be the first meeting, and so as chairman, I'm sorry, but for two days everyone talked factions to each candidate, I took extra breaks. [[B in m in s a l in]] I, my dear colleagues, have an offer on the one hand -- to put it to a vote, on the other hand -- another offer. It's all right. I, my honourable colleagues, am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers for No. 1008. If you'd like to make a decision and vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please make up your mind about the vote, Your Honor. Please vote. [[18:22:46]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u33	Let's be more careful, dear fellows. Again. There is a Supreme Council decree, there is a proposal for a chamber to be put to the vote. Wait, I put the chairman to the vote. The MPs voted. "For" -- 229 deputies, versus 16, held -- 9. 129 deputies did not vote. What are some additional suggestions? If this proposal had not been made, we would have voted on another proposal. That's what we agreed. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 125 – "Block of Peter Poshenko", "National Front" – 69, Opposition Block – 0, "Help" – 0, Radical Party – 15, "Fathership" – 14, "Will of the People" – 1, "Economic Development" – 0. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko asks for the floor. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the honourable colleagues! I think we're going to solve this situation, and I'm making an offer. Before voting for the government, which the coalition agreement provides for a full vote, I ask that all the heads of factions be given the opportunity to make a brief statement to express their position on the government. And then we go to the vote with a package for the government that we're going to form together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u35	In general. Is there no objection? We voted on the basis of a draft decree, a government order, I understand? We voted on the Supreme Council's decree on the basis of the legislation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. There's an offer by Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to give a word to the factions. If you need to listen to the ministers, you'll be identified, Your Honor, I'll put an offer on the vote and put a dot on it. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u36	Sobolje, Fatherland. We supported the proposal made by the coalition board to allow representatives of the MPs to speak, and thus to adopt the decision on the composition of the government following the draft decision that was proposed. Your proposal on the possibility of no ministers, I understand, got 229 votes, but speaking from factions, we agreed, we wanted them to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u37	Thank you. Roger that. Please, the factions sign up for the performances. We voted on the basis. Now, if we have to, we'll have suggestions, we'll listen to the ministers. Please sign in, dear colleagues. Please, there's everyone. So Leschenko, Sergey Leschchenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Please, please. Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u38	I've given my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u39	Yuri Lucenko, please. They gave the word Yuri Lucenko, did I get it right, Sergey? Candlestick. National Deputy Lechchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u40	National Deputy Lechchenko. I wanted to point out that before that there were two attempts by the Igor Jeremeyev faction to vote non-personally. Please don't say it again. And I give the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to secure a personal vote. Thank you. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u42	Dear Mr. President, honourable Mr. Golovo, distinguished fellow national MPs, a year ago the Ukrainian people broke the dictatorship’s back, and politicians made a commitment to change the country a year ago. During this year, the politicians met Midan's demands only in the "against," we changed the gangster president, we changed the government of thieves, we changed the Supreme Council. Now politicians have to meet the requirements of Maidan "for," they have to create a state where the courts and the police believe that they are competitive, and the taxes are paid by everyone where the army is strong, and the people feel happy living in the best country in the world. During the creation of the Coalition Agreement and the formation of the government, the Block of Peter Dustenka took an irreconcilable position. We must put an end to party selfishness, party intrigues, and malicious party quotas that have led the country to a shameful finish. We need a government, not party politicians, but a government reform for the nation. That's why Peter Prashenko's Block introduced the Prime Minister's nominations for technocrats, people who don't hold party positions, and people who know how to change Ukraine. There is no time to teach this government. Friends, we only have 3-4 months of window of opportunity, 3-4 months, maybe we'll still be able to tolerate our external creditors until we get a result, 3-4 months gives us nature of relative comfort on the front, 3-4 months give different lobbyists in this room to go through the most important reforms without their interest, 3-4 months we have a loan of trust for the Ukrainian people. During this time, we have to change the country. To do what all of us believed was united in a coalition there on Maidan. We've chosen this chance. And today we want to support a government of national opportunity, a government of national change, a government of the national future. The Peter Prashenko faction supports this government and puts its shoulders in difficult but vital reforms for the future of our country and our people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u43	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, the Self-Help faction of Beresuk. Oleg Beresuk, please, Mr. Oleg. If there are suggestions for ministers to be heard, please make your statement. Then we'll listen to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u44	Mr. President, the distinguished future ministers, I hope, are the honourable deputies! You know, there are slogans and there are actions. I think it's just that there's been a disaster that's actually crossed out the good intentions of style. You know, you can work effectively, but you can work effectively with a beautiful professional style. Me and our faction have seen no threat to the brief answers and questions of ministers to those MPs who have not seen them because they are non-fractional. If you and I are building professional parliamentaryism, which we have destroyed together, we have all destroyed together. All together, I think we're all together. So today we were to let half an hour's work, dear colleagues, give it to those who came. Because among them are the non-fractional people who have come here with a sincere heart and the will to build a country. [[Applause]] That's why it's a beautiful style, gentlemen. And we as full members of the coalition will be, and it will be, if, perhaps, even someone does not want it. We're going to be it under any circumstances, because we've come here to build a country, to make observations to the entire Parliament. The second question. Ladies and gentlemen! The government that we're building today, even et oculus, that is, at first glance, is better than the previous one. Even in that he is molded by other principles. It may not be the best, but it may be in a different style. There are people in this government who could never have been in this government before. There are people in this government who we know by their actions. This government according to its philosophy is better. But the shape and style of its formation tarnishes its quality. And I think if we suffered for another half hour, we could do even better without devalued these important people, as if we were afraid they were worthless. They're valuable. Now the observations we have. First. Foreign people are invited to the government. I mean. [[B in m in s a l in]] They became Ukrainian citizens. They became Ukrainian citizens. First of all, I thank them for their courage and desire to come to us today and help with their experience. But I'm asking you. [[Applause]] But I ask you to cherish the tradition deeply and carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u45	Please, let me finish. Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u46	Please, the traditions. And please don't give in to the provocation of corruption and regression in our country. The second thing is. We have a note. There'll be a regulation. We have comments to ministers who were already in the government. We haven't been able to complete the fight against corruption and to complete the illustration, this is task number one. The next important task. The Ministry of Information is a very important ministry. To this day, though, we do not fully understand his task and his position. We suggest that this ministry might be brought out as a package to discuss it more. We don't mind that. [[Applause]] And the last. No doubt we are voting on the government today, but if we want this government to have even greater value than it can have today, we propose to put you to a personal vote for each minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u47	Thank you, thank you. May I have the floor, People's Will Group, Mr. Razwadovsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u48	I beg you to pass the word to Igor Mironovich Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u49	Igor Mironov Jeremeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u50	Dear Ukrainian people, Mr. President, the Head of the Supreme Council and the National Deputies! Today, Ukraine is experiencing difficult times, we are fighting war. At this difficult time when our fighters were killed on the front, we made a difficult decision and made the election of the Supreme Council. Today, a democratic coalition called "European Ukraine" has been created. Our faction today, in voting for the Cabinet of Ministers, supported the Foreign Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Minister Poltorak as Defence Minister. We know these ministers because we were in the coalition a few months ago when the "Supreme European Ukraine" faction voted and we know these people and we support them today. But I do have a question for Minister Poltorak. You are a few months today, Mr. Secretary of Defense, we know there is a war going on, we have a truce now. And we'd like to know the clear answers to the question, what is the provision of the material and technical base of our military? After the election, we went to the Debaltsovo zone where the first territorial battalion of Volin is serving, unfortunately, 500 fighters, 500 pairs of winter shoes are not available, and today the volunteers are supposed to buy it, we'd like to have answers to these questions. We'll support you, but that doesn't mean we'll be silent when there's no rotation, or when there's any, there's no breach. We didn't vote for the new Cabinet of Ministers today because the Cabinet of Ministers papers gave us three minutes ago. A few days ago we spoke to the Head of the Supreme Council: our faction will vote for you as a candidate for the Supreme Council, if you guarantee that no rule of law will be violated in the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council passed, with a revolutionary purpose, adopting over 100 bills that had not passed any committee. It said, "the committee didn't look at it," "the committee didn't look at it." So today we decided not to vote in favour of this Cabinet of Ministers. We, unfortunately, respect ministers, but we don't know them, and we don't know what programs they're planning, what reforms they're planning to do. But we hope that the first law on the first day of work will be the law on pension reform. Because it was the democratic coalition at each session that declared that it would vote in favour of a pension reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u51	Thank you. I beg of you, the Fatherland faction. Who will act? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u52	The Fatherland faction. Mr. President, my fellow Members, the moment that will now be voted on in the session room is the answer to a key question. When we met with representatives of the future government, our faction asked one question, do you realize that you actually took a one-way ticket? This will be a train ticket that should lead the country to the European Union and to full NATO membership. Whoever's trying to push the stopscreen today, I mean the opposition block, they have to understand clearly, the choice for the country was made by the citizens. During the elections, when they clearly authorized more than the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council on the European development vector of Ukraine. But here's another question, I think what's happening with the future government today is the time we could only dream about in the far 90s. Who could have thought that Ukrainian citizenship would be honored by the citizens of the United States of America, Georgia, Lithuania, and many other countries around the world. [[Applause]] I think it's a great example for tens of millions of our citizens scattered around the world, if citizens of other countries take Ukrainian citizenship, they can also go back to their homeland, build a European, a sovereign Ukraine. And I think that this sign of this government is the best example of our connection. We've considered all the candidates for the positions of ministers and vice-premiers, the discussion has been very lively and the faction has decided, we support the decision that this government, the government, not the parties and not the factions, the government that was introduced by the prime minister of the country after the coalition has joined the whole country, where we can, in fact, overcome both military Russian aggression and the economic upheaval that unfortunately could not be overcome many years ago. That's why our proposal is next, we're voting for this government, and we understand this is just the first step. Further, the responsibility of the coalition that each minister assumes is incomparable to anything else that is in the state. This is the responsibility for Ukraine’s future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u53	Heroic glory! Thank you, thank you, please, Nechiporenko "Economic Development", Valentin Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u54	Please give the word to Vitalia Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u55	Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u56	Dear National Deputies! Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished compatriots! The position of the MP's Economic Development Group is the next, if the coalition is putting out ministers with a clear biography, there's a life path, there's something to talk about, why are we going to hide it now, let's lose another hour and hear these people. Not only is it necessary for us, for factions that had no opportunity to meet candidates, but we should not forget that all Ukrainian citizens are watching the broadcast now. And Ukrainian citizens also need to know who will guide one direction or another, who will govern social policy, who will run the economy, who will run other ministries and offices. We should not forget, therefore, that not everything is resolved only in coalition circles. We personally have a few questions. Clearly, there is already a decision that we will not listen to. But the question is: Have candidates for the positions of ministers or ministers refused the citizenship they had prior to the adoption of Ukrainian citizenship today? If not, this does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, and of course to the laws of Ukraine. We have a separate question for the candidates for the post, for the post of Vice Prime Minister. We read that there are criminal cases. We'd like to hear whether these criminal cases are closed, what they were for, and if they don't have any questions left behind. We would also like to understand what the plan of action of each ministry is and what the ultimate goal is. So if we put a vote on individual candidates, we respect many of you, and we support individual candidates, but if we put the vote on the package as a whole, our parliamentary group has decided not to support the entire package that is proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u57	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u58	I give the floor to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lašk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u59	Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u60	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We support our fellow MPs on the idea that candidates for ministers are to be led by the government and that Ukrainian society should know who is going to the government. Because it's a government, it's not just a government. This government has not been in existence for 24 years. It's a government in war conditions, it's a government in deep conditions, not even an economic crisis, but an economic catastrophe, it's a government after a Yanukovich gang. And that's why. In addition, in this government, for the first time in 20 years, we have foreigners from yesterday, and today we have Ukrainian citizens. And I think all Ukrainian citizens want to look both at the future economy minister, and the future finance minister, and the future health minister, where there's huge corruption, including on the tenders, and the vice-ministers to discuss the issues that are there. We will vote in favour of this government. Yes, there are ministers who we don't like. There are, for example, candidates for the ministers of Habakkuk, internal affairs. We have a lot of claims to that and a minister and a candidate to ministers. We think Arsen Avakov could do a lot more in the Ministry of Internal Affairs if he wanted to work more actively. Similarly, we have certain questions for other ministers who are returning to these positions today. But we know that the country needs a government, we know that we are responsible to the citizens of Ukraine for its future. And we know that as a candidate, the government is responsible for Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk. And that's why we're going to vote, because these are the candidates offered by the Prime Minister. He is the one responsible for the government. And Parliament has to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to form a team, and Parliament has to support the government not only by voting for him today but also by supporting some bills or other. But, Arseny Petrovich, I want to address you personally. It is vital that we do not mold our child in water reforms, so that we do not forget the millions of Ukrainian citizens who today need new jobs that want to earn money, feed their family, and put their children on their feet. That is why all our reforms must be aimed at this. The country needs radical action in the interests of the people. Not in the interests of the oligarchs, not in the interests of the clans that have been tearing the country apart for 23 years, but in the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens who have voted for democratic parties that today have a constitutional majority in the Supreme Council. That's why go, work, we'll do what we can to help. And if you can't do it, you can do it, and people will just take us out to the villas. We should always keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u61	Thank you. Please, People's Front, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, from this rostrum I have already had the opportunity to talk about the enormous tasks that the government faces, the problems that the government must solve. And now, in principle, it's important for us to demonstrate the unity of the coalition and remove emotions. I realize that the first vote was due to the fact that many of my colleagues wanted the government to move as quickly as possible to carry out its duties, the country was really waiting for it. But, colleagues, let's clear our emotions, consider the first vote that we've taken a decision as a basis. And now, when we vote on the ruling as a whole, we have to show that we have a coalition ready to take responsibility for the country. As far as technology is concerned, I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, please, the arrangements that we have with regard to the possibility of allowing every candidate to serve as Minister, Vice Prime Minister, in order to make our position clear from the rostrum, the direction of carrying out the tasks that lie ahead of one or more ministries today. I'm sure your honorary colleagues, who have time and responsibility to listen carefully, will need to ask questions. But I am convinced that the question will be given to the government and that the government will answer these questions every day. So, colleagues, I'm not wasting or time, let's move on to listening to our candidates for government positions, and together, I emphasize, the entire coalition will support our new government. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u63	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. So since we have been adopted on the basis of the Supreme Council's Order and there are proposals to listen to MPs -- candidates for ministers, members of the government, then I'll be inviting you in. Let's schedule five minutes. Three minutes? Three minutes. And then he'll take the risk of forming the Prime Minister's Cabinet. And let's get to the vote. Is it accepted? Roger that. Please, Voschevsky Valerij Mikolaiovich, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine from the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Ljaška. Please, three minutes. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u64	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor Mr. Head, Mr. Prime Minister! The Vice-Prime Minister, who, as the Prime Minister has defined, will have the infrastructure and the protection of the environment, I would like to say very important to me. In order to name the reforms that need to be implemented in the area of infrastructure, we have to say what we have today. We have today, first of all, a monopoly everywhere, in every area of the Ministry of Infrastructure. We have a state monopoly, we have a corrupt monopoly. So if you take the example of Ukrawtododor, it's prepared, including about four years ago, including by my participation, the reform that provides for the separation of Ukrawtododor, the transfer to local authorities at the level of the local roads, along with the service infrastructure, the transfer of funds to the local level, which can be done as soon as possible, and the privatization of this structure. And now it's getting from the government budget from $8 billion to $10 billion a year. Debt, a government debt that is extremely problematic today, which is responsible for the same Ukrawtododor, is somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, equal to 40 billion. That's it. It's hard to remember what's been built over the last few years for such a huge amount of money. Such a structure, which is now in this field, does not have the right to exist. It can be transformed into an efficient, modern, market-oriented and it can be done pretty quickly, and it can have a positive effect on the whole economy of Ukraine. What's going on with the Crucifixion. It's a key branch. As a minimum, it has been hit three times in recent years. The first time the road of Kiev-Odes was built. I think a lot of people remember that a huge resource was taken from the Crucifixion. Then, when they were leased to the mobile warehouse of Ukrzalznice, they raised tariffs for everyone without excluding the economic sectors. And the third time we held the Euro-2014. This field has enormous problems with moving warehouses, with roadways, and with colossal farming. It also needs to be reformed in terms of privatization, the creation of a private-share association on the basis of Ukrzaliznica. And gradually, taking into account today's state of affairs in our country, to change the situation there so that our infrastructure in Ukraine meets today's challenges.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u65	Let me finish. I'd like to follow the rules, my dear colleagues. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u66	If that happens, we're going to have to do the ministry, which we call the Ministry of Ecology, there's a very large number of problems. The main thing is that Ukraine should serve the people of Ukraine. What we have today is what we now know almost exactly: oil production by our own private companies with a cost-effectiveness of up to 400 percent per year; gas production by our well-known companies, with a profitability of up to 700 percent per year, and by the state company Crushing, which is 40 times.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u67	Thank you, come on, candidate, and let's get to the question. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a question. I'll just be a minute. Let's consult, if everyone wants to ask questions, it's going to be a long time. [[B in m in s a l in]] One question? From the faction on one issue, we agreed. And one question from the non-factioners, we agreed. Dear colleagues! I'd ask the faction, Mustafa Najem, to be BPP, and then I'd go through the factions, the Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u68	Valerius Mikolayovich, thank you for speaking. I have a question for you. You've probably seen your résumé that we've been officially handed out? There's something about you trying to steal money. I realize it's funny, we've actually been given that. And the second question. Please tell me how much truth is there about your Maltese citizenship? If this is not true, correct it. Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u69	First of all, I've been a Ukrainian citizen since I was born. I've never had any other citizenship and I'm not going. That's the first one. As for what you say you've been given, I consider it a provocation. No case that could be classified as "trying to steal" in my life. But I would like you to know that I was assigned to the post of head of Ukrautododu and worked for exactly one week. I was warned directly from President Yanukovitch's Administration: get out of office or we'll put you in jail. I was assigned by the quota of the Lithuanian Block of my time, and I refused. We calculated that we were dealing with the law, with decent people, and there could be nothing that could not be. I refused, and three days later, a criminal case was committed, and I had to leave my post. But the matter was closed literally within a few weeks because there was no basis for its violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u70	Thank you for your answer. Please, from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak, then Radical, Oleg Lazko, from BUT. We're about to record from factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u71	Good afternoon. Your Honor, please tell me. Will you continue to support the reform of the Crossroads initiated by the government this summer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u72	I'm sure we should be working on reforming the Railroad. In that state: the naked, the poor, and the boss today we have the Crucifixion. There is in fact no resource there today to provide the basic function that is placed on it, especially during this period, which should be called a special one for our state. It needs to be reformed, it needs to be reformed in the approaches already outlined by the government. But it should be based on the involvement of serious powerful investors, because it's a key area for the economy of any state, including ours. I will be sure to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u73	Thank you for your answer. Please, Radical Party. Then we'll write it down for questions and then we'll write it down. I'd like the faction leaders to figure out who's going to ask the questions. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u74	Vladimir Borisovich is still a faction question. Vladimir Borisovich, Oleg Lazko Radical Party I have a question for you, as for the head of Parliament. How can we assess our faction, this provocation? These are officially distributed materials, distributions, and so forth. I asked about the apparatus, they can't answer how these lying, crafty, without any signature, there's no candidate's signature here. I want to show you to compare the biography of the other candidates, these are the identity cards. There's a person card, there's a biography. You, as head of Parliament, are responsible for the actions of the Apparatus. We're protesting this provocation against our colleague Valery Vashchevsky. We demand the responsibility of whoever committed this provocation in order to discredit our political power and our candidate from the political power, and we demand answers from you as the head of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u75	Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich. Absolutely objective. I just saw it happen. We need to be very careful about this, and the guilty must be punished. But the candidate today corrected that information. I think that's enough for the deputies present, and we're going to deal with what, how, when it was done and by whom, especially, who supplied these materials. Thank you. Please, the Motherland Party. Is there a need to ask questions? Please. People's MP Rybchin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u76	Valerius Mikolaiovich, it's a pleasure to have you do environmental work. Finally, this branch will be presented not only by the professional minister but also by the Vice-Minister. I have a question: what are you going to do for the continuous development of this sector?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u77	In order for this branch to meet the challenges it faces both time and government, we need to take very few initial steps. I think we should put an end to this tradition when this ministry is a ministry, where you can come and buy a license or a license or a career. The first thing you have to do is take care of the staff. We have enough information to do it qualitatively and to stop corruption, and to continue to work professionally, and to do the work that is foreseen in this ministry and the tasks that are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u78	Thank you. I ask of the Self-Help party and beyond, I'm of the non-faction Illenko party, and we'll let you down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u79	"Economic development." It's a deal. "Economic development" and take a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u80	Sergey Kiral, Self Help Union. Please tell me, since you will also be in charge of the environmental protection sector, we have an extremely complex problem in a country with unsanctioned garbage dumps, with polygons that are long overdue. Do you today have any vision of creating conditions either for investors or for tariff policy? And how do you plan to run this sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u81	I got it. I understand, thank you, a very interesting and very important question. We're going to have to do a whole package of operations here. First of all, in our time, we've told you a lot about corruption -- problem number one. So she's not letting us work here. It's a monopolized, unfortunately, corrupt sphere of activity. This is where investors are to be involved. Small and medium-sized businesses need to be involved. Here we have to involve the world's technologies that allow today, with this more colossal resource, as habitats, to be dealt with in a fairly efficient and fast manner. I can tell you, if there was more time, why we didn't do it. Because there were one and a half dozen people who thought that all the garbage in Ukraine would be processed themselves. And they built some factories, a few, and they wouldn't let go, and they wouldn't let people in today that could change the situation. There's small and medium-sized businesses, government programs, tariff policies, a lot of things. And you can move that situation out of place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u82	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Illenko. Give me your word. And then the Economic Development Group, and we'll take the risk. And let's move on to the next candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u83	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Valery Mikolaiovich, in your speech, I've heard about the privatisation process, especially the Crucibles. I'd like to understand more about your position on this question, which one is it. Because this question is extremely important and strategic, in our view, for the Ukrainian State. And I'd like to take this opportunity to go to Vladimir Borisovich. I'd like to, and to all my colleagues, you don't think it's strange that the ruling on the appointment of the government by a coalition of over 300 deputies was voted by 229 people? And that's probably not the best start for Parliament. And in order for this not to happen, you obviously need to be a little more careful about the moods in the room and realize that we need to restore respect for parliamentaryism. And to understand that the vote, and we will insist, together with other colleagues, that each minister vote separately. And this is not a requirement of political separate factions. This is a requirement of Ukrainian society, in our view. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u84	Thank you so much for asking. It's about the railway, and it's really a key transport artery, it's a key sector that makes our economy work. But I can also call you tens, and you know, different cases where huge costs are made in cooperation with the Crucifixion. On the one hand, a corrupt enterprise. It can't ensure the transport of the citizens' pension categories. And I can name a lot of problems that are on the Crucifixion. Without privatization, without involving a serious investment resource, without reconstruction, without modernization, we can't move on. There is a need to privatize categorically. But mentally, planally, step by step. Thus, so that there is no way to disrupt the vitality and ability to perform its functions as this complex, complex organism. We should also remember that we are still a huge transit state, and on Cruiseroads, a huge function, when the money comes into the budget from transit transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u85	Thank you, sir, for your time, please. Please, Economic Development Group, please turn on Nichiporenko's microphone. And we're going to take a risk, and we're going to move on to the next candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, you know, this is something that needs to be done, because today's position is for both the President and the Prime Minister to be reformed. And that's the exact right position. And we need to hear how ministers will implement reforms in life. I just heard from the reverend Valery Mikolaiovich that he's offering to split up the Kravutodore, transfer it to places with further privatization. Ladies and gentlemen, we already have a huge experience of further privatization. You're offering an enterprise that receives government orders, that is, budget funds, is definitely handing over into private hands. You may have forgotten to say that they should be defrauded before that. Do you think it's a strategic plan for the reform of "The Stork" or not? So I'd like to hear a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u87	If there is time for this, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the following thing before the candidate responds. A coalition agreement is signed. After his appointment, the government will go to the Ukrainian Parliament with a government action programme to respond to all systemic steps related to government reforms and activities. Today we are looking at candidates who will enter the new government with the consent of the Ukrainian Parliament. Then you and I will be able to get the government's action programme, in accordance with established order, and we will discuss it on specific approaches to the issues that are needed. Please finish and let's move on to the next candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u89	I'll try briefly, although I understand that this is a question that requires more detailed discussion. We've got 166,000 miles of roads on the balance sheet today. Every village is small and large, and the road is on the balance sheet. Reform means, first, to divide public roads. 15-20 thousand will be left to the state, which will be exploited by state-owned road and operation enterprises, and 150 thousand will be given to the areas of knowledge on the balance sheet of local district councils, most likely to be departments or capital-building management. They should take responsibility for the local roads and take responsibility for them. Because we have a situation in each region. In Santa, Hersonian roads are destroyed because they're old and because there are ports, big weight transport and so on and so forth. There's one approach. The government budget will have to be paid, now the money is divided into 70 by 30 by state roads and local roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u90	Honorable National Deputies, Honorable Valérie Mikolaiovich, time for questions and answers is exhausted. Thank you for your attention. Please take your seat in the hall. Please, I want to. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I would like to invite President Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, a moment of your attention. I want to thank you for supporting the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defense more than the constitutional majority of the votes. [[Applause]] Under the Constitution, under the Coalition Agreement, the Law on the Rules of Candidates is represented by the Prime Minister. I would advise you, although of course it's an internal matter to, well, look, there's not half of the people in the room that we would now be able to present to the Prime Minister, a brief statement for three minutes, all the information is, make the decision, give it a chance to do it that way. Please, if you find this opportunity to support this procedure. Third position. I have an international conversation at 7:30. I thank you so much for your support. If possible, I'll be right back in the hall for that. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u92	Let us thank the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 16 more candidates. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine from the faction of the political party "The People's Front". Is there a need to ask questions? None. Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. None. Dear colleagues. is a candidate for the post of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine from the Party "Block of Petra Prashenko" Zubko Hennady Grigorovich. Is there any more need to report? Yes, please. One minute Hennaday Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to take your attention for my report. You know, I would now like to address not only those who have signed the Coalition Agreement, who have entered into the coalition, but also those who have not written the coalition agreement. Pale, I'd like us to face the challenges in Ukraine right now together. The Coalition Agreement clearly prescribes a route map that we should do with you. I would like to emphasize again. Along with you, the government that has to carry out the task, and you, who have to support the legislative initiatives of this route map. Of the tasks that are now in place, I think, is the logical conclusion of the reforms that have been started. It's a decentralization of power, it's a transfer of powers to local communities, it's an opportunity to transfer powers together with responsibility. Because it's only through this tool that we can start economic growth in places.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u94	Let me finish. Rules, please follow, Gennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u95	Or you could give it three minutes just like everybody else.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u96	You can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u97	I'd like everyone to understand clearly, now is the moment of responsibility. Because without this reform, it is impossible to conduct and improve the quality of local elites, which should then assume the responsibility of managing specific areas. Without this reform, it is impossible to talk about the efficiency of using the budget that we think about today, and which is not enough at the top of the line today. Without that, Ukraine’s movement to the European Union is virtually impossible. So I'd like, honourable nationals to make it clear that we're all taking responsibility, each for our own. And now before the challenges facing Ukraine, before the external threat, before the economic crisis, before the things that are, it's our shared responsibility in general. And that's why I'd like you to support the government today. And if you've already offered to listen to every candidate in the minister's office, I think you should listen and ask those questions that could also be a challenge for any minister who works in this government and is responsible. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, is there a question for Hennadi Grigorovich? He's been through all the factions and not once. No questions? Thank you, sit down, please. [[Applause]] The next candidate is Hanna Volodymyrna Onishchenko. Candidate for Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Any questions? [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't? [[Applause]] None. Everybody backs up, applauds. Thank you, Hanna Volodymyr. Pavelenko Alexei Mihajlovich, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, from the faction "Political Union of Self-Help". Is there a need?? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u99	Colleague! Come on, I'll figure out what I have to do. Please make a statement. If there are no questions asked, there will be another candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u100	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Prime Minister! I am very grateful for this historic moment, for me to be in this room and have the great privilege of speaking. I made a personal decision to leave perhaps from a very beautiful life called a business called professional activity, in order to come here with a team of professionals and at this important moment for the country to do something that can be left behind in history. The agricultural sphere is closely related to what I have done for many years. This is from Rice to the last agrarian projects in the Chernigow region. I understand what's happening on the ground. I understand what peasants live for. I understand what corporations live by, they're big and they're not very big. There are a lot of questions, we work together with many agrarian confederates, associations. The road map is already defined with clear KPIs. It is stipulated in the Coalition Agreement, you can walk through each of them, starting there, from land issues, cadastre issues, regulation issues. But the main trend in the near future is, we see, first of all, the question of European norms, the discovery of European markets. This is a separate issue involving land rentals, such as cadastres. This is a question of corruption, which is in many government bodies, starting with the State, the Ukrispirt, and so forth. So the block of work is very large, and I really hope for your support that we will be able to achieve these great ambitious goals with you. Thank you so much! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u101	Heroic glory! Thank you, candidate, please sit down. Any questions? People's Front, I see, Deputy Terenchuk. Let's sign up for questions, but those factions that don't have any questions, don't write them down. Factions, factions and groups, please. You sign up, sign up. Please, I invited you to the People's Front question, please. Next, Hirschfield.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u102	Can I talk to you? Dear colleagues, I am now addressing everyone and the coalition, and not the coalition: let's stop embarrassing Parliament now, if we are discussing the government, please let's discuss the government, let's not embarrass ourselves in front of the press, let's not embarrass ourselves in front of the Ukrainian people, this is the main thing. If there's no need to discuss it, let's stop it, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u103	Please, National Deputy Teteruk, I gave my word and I didn't. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! I understand that a few of them are tired and uncomfortable. I would like to remind you that we have a country in a state of war and those who are now on the front line are now on the loose and require our decisions, including. And whoever's tired here, be good, control yourself and do what we need, we now choose the Cabinet of Ministers, and we need to understand who these people are, what they're going to do most dangerously soon. [[Applause]] And they're tired and they're starting to do shit! I urge you to calm down and continue to work in the direction in which we should work. Because if we're going to have a little bit of a different situation right now, we're all going to be hot in total.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u105	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u106	Dear Alexei Mihajlovich, we still have the Minister of Agriculture's responsibility for the country's affairs. Because unfortunately, in recent years there has been such a trend in Ukraine that, despite the fact that we are harvesting more crops, pensioners live in the countryside worse and young people continue to leave the village, the infrastructure of the village continues to deteriorate. What, in your opinion, are the priority measures for us to keep young people in the countryside, to increase the welfare of pensioners, and at least to stop the destruction of infrastructure, I mean clubs, schools, gardens and so on, which are still in a state of chronic underfunding? This certainly depends on the country's tax, because the only jobs that are there today are jobs that are created by agrarians. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u107	Thank you, that's a good question. I'll answer two questions. The first issue of rural development is that we, together with the faction and together with a number of separate confederates, are in cooperation with the faction. Involved in the project, we are drafting a number of draft laws on local development and community development, which will be made available for your consideration. In terms of my personal vision, I think that the first step is to oblige a number of companies to pay money equivalent for rents and pies, thus giving people money in the country and deciding what to buy for them once. The second is the question of investment in business. Business in the country, jobs, corporations, and schools will develop. The third is, I know a lot of businesses, and I know that there's a desire, there's a minimum commitment, it's the social responsibility of a business to jointly invest infrastructure development in a village, it's schools, gardens, oranges and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u108	Thank you. Please sign up "Radical Party." You insist on asking, "Radical Party"? A radical party is a question to a candidate? Please, ask. Musiczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u109	The Radical Party is firmly opposed to selling agricultural land, what is your position on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u110	My personal position is that of the Coalition Agreement, that this issue will yet be frozen and considered by individual groups of experts. We will take an active part, we will consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u111	Thank you for your answer. "Economic development", national deputy Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u112	Please pass the word to my colleague Bobov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u113	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u114	Dear Oleg Mikolaiovich! The question is that our Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that agriculture should become a driver of the Ukrainian economy. And it is indeed, perhaps today, the only branch that works and that brings all the difficult times of our country out of this situation is, in fact, agriculture. You know, I've listened very carefully to you and I've looked very closely at your autobiography, and you're not told that these coalition agreements can lead us to get another minister who's gonna cheat both government and everything. We have a very large professional, Mr. Kozachenko, in the government, I believe that people like Kozachenko should be headed by the Ministry of Agriculture, do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u115	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u116	I don't think so. I think my level of competence and my level of experience are enough to understand what's going on in the country and what's going on in the agricultural business. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u117	Thank you, Your Honor, for insisting on the Peter Dust Block, Oleg Stepanovich Barn? Is he insisting? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u118	Yes. Our request was one and a request, to stop lobbying agroholdings, and instead to set aside funds for the development of small and medium-sized agricultural production, small farmers. And second moment. You promise to put order in Ukrispirt, which has virtually artificially led to the bankruptcy of the Marlovski alcohol plant and the entire alcohol industry of Ukraine, do you promise?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u119	With your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u120	All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u121	Thank you very much. Thank you, candidate. Please take your seats. Why didn't you sign up? Please, from non-fractionals one question. Please, Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u122	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, Freedom. I have two questions, please, and I very much ask you to answer them specifically, because there was a similar question here from a fellow member of the Radical Party, but you're a little away from it. Can you please say yes or no in the form of a yes or no answer, or do you personally - I emphasize - your personal position as a Ukrainian citizen or are you "yes" or "against" the open market on land of agriculture? This is the first time. And secondly, are you in favour or against the privatisation of Easter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u123	I'll start with the second question. I'm not even going to talk about Easter, I'm going to. I have a Western education and I have a very simple approach to Adam Smith: free hand of competition, blind hand of competition. So everything, as in Georgian experience, has to be passed on to where? From the state to work on its own economic conditions. That's the answer to your question number two. The first question you asked on the ground? On the ground. From the point of view of the earth, this question is actually very difficult. Yes or no questions cannot be answered, because in principle the Western model is yes, and in principle the Ukrainian reality needs to be prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u124	Thank you. Please take your seats. [[Applause]] Moving on to the next candidate, Avakov Arsen Borisovich, who is a candidate for the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, is there a need to report to Arsen Borisovich? Please, Arsen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u125	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u126	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! I want to talk to you now about the reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I want to inform you that the Ministry of Internal Affairs Development Strategy was adopted in October, and this strategy is detailed on the Ministry of Interior's website on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. Now I've prepared a brief presentation for you. I think it's clear. I'm asking you to show her. Please. Light can be extinguished.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pay attention to this: instead of punishing and cruising, serving and protecting. I'm open to your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u128	Thank you. Let's, if there's any questions, write it down, including non-fractional MPs. Please register if you have any questions. Please, Oleg Valeriovich Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Arsene Borisovich! Thank you for the brilliant, colorful presentation of your plan of action. I only have one question, and I think it's not just me, it's also millions of Ukrainian citizens who are dealing with the militia you're leading every day. Dear Arsené Borisovich, what prevented you from doing all this earlier for nine months in your position? Thank you very much for your sincere response.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, you probably know that in nine months it's hard to do what hasn't been done many, many years before. And as the poor Mao Zedun didn't say, "Step by step, we'll make it." Here we need to take this strategy, and step by step, to change the situation for the better. I'm sure if we're honest about this, we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u131	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u132	Vladislav Golub, 197 constituency, Petra Prashenko. Please pass the word to my colleague, Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u133	Anatoly Matvienko. Arsenius Borisovich, I wish you success. And my address is to you, Vladimir Borisovich, and to all fellow members of the national MPs. Let us, however, put the work of our Parliament in order. Vladimir Borisovich, I address you. So let's factor out, if we need to, 3 minutes, let's take 3 minutes each. That's the first one. And two, let's take exactly three minutes for questions and answers. After 3 minutes have ended, no other groups and unfractional groups have the ability to set the Rules. He can ask questions only by the faction on her request. And we're going to move in kind of an organized way. We're moving chaoticly now. So please, follow the Rules, let's set three minutes for the presentation, three minutes for the answers. And we're going to predict moving, not turning it into an unnecessary discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u134	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me finish with the people's deputy Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u135	All candidates, without exception, have passed the faction. And this presentation really needs more television than we need in the audience. So let us save time and respect our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u136	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u137	Dear coalition members! Would you mind if I asked you? All the candidates you've seen have all gone through the factions. Let me finish! My firm position was to give everyone the opportunity to speak before voting for the candidates you submitted. And I don't quite understand why the House of Parliament voted not to. There's nothing to hide. These are the people you gave, dear friends, right? This is the future composition of the Cabinet of Ministers. In principle, the Cabinet of Ministers is introduced by the Prime Minister. So, if you'll excuse me, I have this request, I'm going to call it names, you say, people, we want to hear it, we don't want to hear it. When the government takes action, it has to be implemented within 48 hours. I didn't specifically introduce a program so that someone wouldn't think that we were introducing a program to keep the government immune for a year. No, it's not. The program is a clear action plan that needs to be done. It should be made by the government, not the Prime Minister. To that end, you will choose this government. Please, dear friends, I'll read your last names on the list. Every candidate for three minutes -- out, out, out, quickly passed the procedure. We've voted, and then we've got to get to work. We don't have time. Is that how it's supported or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u138	Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u139	Arsen Borisovich, dear friends! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yegor, did you have Arsen Borisovich on the faction? I was. Did you ask him a question? They've been asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's support the Prime Minister's initiative. We voted, there's the Prime Minister's submission, we voted for the basis, and now we're going in the logic that I've supported, as far as I can tell. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! Igor Anatoliyovich Shevchenko, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine To Igor Anatoliyovich, introduced by the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Is there a question directly to Igor Anatolyovich? In that case, colleagues, I do. Igor Anatolyovich, would you please come out here in the front row? Please turn on the microphone. Briefly about yourself, where you come from, who you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u142	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u143	One minute, please, quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u144	Sitting?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u145	You sit, you stand. Seats will always be there, so stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u146	The Honourable Head, the Honourable Prime Minister. It's so embarrassing. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Head, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs! I, Igor Shevchenko, was born in Ukraine in the Kirovograd region, but I lived my whole life in Kiev. A lawyer for education, studied at the Institute for International Relations at the University of Kiev, then studied in the United States at the university, received a master’s degree in law. Then I studied at Harvard University and at Yale University on special programs in government. I worked in legal practice until 2008, where I earned money that I invested in real estate and that I haven't been doing business since 2008. I was involved in public activities, and there are many people who know me in public activities. And the lawyers who are here know me well.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u147	Thank you, Igor Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues! Every minister who will continue to work in the government in the Government Action Programme and in the "hour of questions to the government," which will be every week, on Friday, you will have the opportunity not just to ask questions, but how everyone does Parliament to extort everything that needs to be extorted from the government in order for it to work more actively. Iveras Abromavisus is the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine. Dear friends! Iveras has just accepted Ukrainian citizenship. Iveras. [[Applause]] This is a person who knows much of the financial and economic world. He managed one of Sweden’s largest funds. He was directly involved in negotiations with foreign investors. And this person is going to be responsible for, first of all, bringing order to government authorities, first of all in state companies; second of all, it's deregulation. There is a proposal for Iveras to be appointed Minister of Economic Development and Trade. Any questions to Iveras? You won't? I won't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Demšin Volodymyr Vasilovich. Vladimir Vasilovich is now in charge of the National Energy and Communication Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u148	Dear colleagues. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u149	We're almost done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u150	Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the legislation, the Prime Minister of Ukraine introduces the nominations of ministers for the consideration of the members of the Supreme Council. A procedure is under way to introduce the prime minister of Ukraine as members of the government in accordance with the submission of the coalition that was established in the Ukrainian Parliament. I ask you not to disturb the Prime Minister. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u151	Dear friends! You're up now. Let me introduce you, then you'll sign up for the question and ask specific questions to the minister. It's okay, isn't it? It's okay. Demšin Vladimir Vasilovic, head of the National Energy and Utilities Commission. Vladimir Vasilovich has considerable experience, primarily in the matter of accounting and auditing. Vladimir Vasilovich is now in a very difficult position: to secure the energy security of the state. Hopefully, he will take advantage of his experience with the National Commission on Energy and Utilities. A brewery named Andriy Mikolaiovich. Andriy Mikolaiovich is proposed to serve as Ukraine’s Infrastructure Minister. According to Andrija Mikolaiovich, there is a great deal of management experience. This person has built more than one company, tens of thousands of people working under this man, considerable experience, and, above all, foreign education and foreign experience. In the Ukraine of Beer - day Andrew, many people know only one thing: He is a person who is capable of making changes and a person who is capable of producing results. Yuri Vasilovich Stec. Jury Jaroslavovich Stec is proposed to serve as Minister of Information Policy. Yuru, everybody knows. "5 Channel" revolutionized in the fourth year and "5 Channel" revolutionized now. Jura Stac will revolutionize information policy to protect the Ukrainian word and Ukrainian information policy. [[Applause]] Igor Zhdanov. Igor Aleksandrovitch Zhdanova is not just a mere memory of Majdan, Igor Aleksandrovitch Zhdanov is a person who worked at the Razumkova Centre. This is a person who has a bearing on different kinds of governments. Igor is the man who, including Majdan, led. Igor is a person who is offered as minister of youth and sport, and I hope that as a young person he will do everything for Ukrainian youth and for Ukrainian sport. [[Applause]] Sergey Mironovich Flower. Sergey Mironovich and I have already passed the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Lillia Greenevich and I had a discussion with the President about the tasks facing the Minister of Education. Now the task after the passed Higher Education Act is to implement this law, and more precisely to implement it. And two basic levels are preschool and secondary education. These are two key laws, including vocational and technical education, which are in the order of the day for Sergey Mironovich. So there's an offer to support Sergio Mironovich as Minister of Education. [[Applause]] Alexander Kwiatschvili. Alexander is the person who ran the Ministry of Social Policy, Labour and the Ministry of Health of Georgia for two and a half years. This person has carried out radical reforms in Georgia. This man became a citizen of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And for his country where he has now received citizenship, he will make the same radical medical reforms. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that in accordance with the coalition agreement, you and I have made the decision to appoint one of the most corrupt components of the Ministry of Health. These are tenders and purchases. And I'm going to ask for the support of the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of Parliament, to adopt appropriate legislation. And put in place a very transparent tender procedure. 8 percent of GDP we spend on medicine! Half of these funds are stolen. That is why the radical reforms that Alexander must undertake have no connection with the Ukrainian pharmaceutical mafia. That's why I'm asking him to support me. [[Applause]] Paul Valeriusz Rosenko. Paul had already served as deputy minister of social policy. [[Applause]] The challenges facing Paul are unbelievable. He knows what to do in the Ministry. He will do all he can to destroy the corruption component in the three foundations that exist today. And according to the coalition agreement, we need to unify these funds. Paul and I will make difficult social decisions, there is no other way. For 2016 to grow, there was growth expected by Ukraine. In 2015, severe social security reforms are the only ones. And I hope for Paul. [[Applause]] Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko is the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Paul Dmitrovic set up an electronic commerce system at the Ministry of Justice. Paul Dmitrovic destroyed a number of corruption elements in the Ministry of Justice. And Paul Dmitrovich now faces a key challenge: along with the President, the government and parliament, the conduct of judicial reform and the destruction of the country's corrupt judicial system! This is our joint task with you. Please support the Minister of Justice. [[Applause]] Dear friends! I ask you to support Ukraine's finance minister Natalia Jaresko. [[Applause]] A man who has been in Ukraine for 20 years. Today, Ukraine was granted its citizenship. And before I took office, I had the most lengthy discussions with Natalia Jaresko. Because she disagreed because she wanted to find out how the government, the rules, and the tasks of the government would work before coming to this Parliamentary Hall. And I was impressed by Natalia's approach. This is an approach that aims to balance government finances. To do everything to ensure that Ukraine does not simply survive and survive in 2015, but that the Ukrainian financial system lays the foundations for economic growth and financial and fiscal stability in 2016. Natalka and I will offer you and ask for your support for the adoption of Ukraine's excessive state budget. Natalka and I will ask you to cancel a series of tax benefits. We will ask you to destroy a number of tax schemes and tax the oligarchy business. We will ask you to apply the principle of fiscal justice in the revenue of the state budget. We will ask that together we take responsibility for the fate of state finances in the country. Natalka knows how to do this, and I'm asking her to support the finance minister. [[Applause]] I want to do it again separately. All the candidates that are now submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under every person you have submitted, I sign. I also make it clear to Mr. Vashchevsky that this attempt will not be successful. Let him go and work and prove by his work that he is able to work. And the same applies to every minister. As far as the rules of work are concerned. Dear friends, no eternal premieres, no eternal members of the government. We'll work fine, we'll work long. We're not going to work properly. We're going to change the government in your power. And that's why I now state that every minister will be responsible for his area of work. Every minister must set clear goals and as Prime Minister I will demand that these goals be achieved by all means and methods. Whoever did this will go with us, whoever didn't make it, and others will come with us. Please support the members of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's over, now we are. [[B in m in s a l in]] The presentation of the Cabinet of Ministers by the Prime Minister of Ukraine was completed. I hear from most of the hall that we have to vote on this decision. That's why I'm voting. All right, Yegor. Say Yegor. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, dear fellows, then we'll put to the vote a motion for an end to the candidature discussion. Is it accepted? I am voting on the motion to stop the discussion of candidates and to discuss the issue as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen again. There are deputies, national deputies in the hall. People’s deputies offer to stop the discussion. There is an offer: Continue the discussion of the candidates. And I have the right to put that question to a vote. I ask you to return to your seat. As the Hall will determine, so will I act as Head of Parliament. Please, I'm proposing to stop discussing this issue of order. Please put to the vote. Identify yourself, national deputies. People's deputies, please identify themselves. [[19:50:59]] For 223 [[Applause]] And there's a second proposition. The factions, please. One minute. The factions. According to factions, I'm sorry, there's another offer -- 10 minutes per question. That's why I'm betting. Ten minutes from the factions. (Noise in the hall) One minute. Give it to me on the grounds of the vote, National MP Dombrovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u153	Dear Vladimir Borisovich and his distinguished colleagues are offered 10 minutes to ask questions, but to the non-fractional people's deputies, to those factions where there was an interview with candidates for ministers so as not to waste time. I mean, whoever didn't have the opportunity to ask questions, let them ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u154	Is the offer accepted? Yeah, 10 minutes to ask. I'll bet on it. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Please. Honorable National MPs. Please sign up. Ten minutes. Please, Hope Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u155	Thank you very much, dear colleagues, for giving the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u156	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u157	Friends, Mr. Speaker, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic has fled to Rostov, so let's leave the decision-making system there. We're proposing a perfectly normal procedure. First. There are questions that call for the inadmissibility of individual ministers. So we ask that we put to the vote the self-help faction head's proposal to vote separately for each minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u158	The other one. The second very simple question. Journalists are calling us today. The creation of the Ministry of Information is a matter of many fears, including our own, we ask ourselves to discuss this decision in the same way. There is no Ministry of Information in Ukraine. Let us first discuss whether it is necessary and then appoint a minister. Very simple suggestions. Let's work as humans.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u159	Thank you. Next, please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u160	Sumar, People's Front. So is the request from the Ministry of Information. We can see that this is a very resonant question brought up by Peter Dusty. The request to invite a candidate to the Supreme Council's rostrum and to hear the answers to the key questions what the Ministry will do. Because he's not here yet. And we don't know what authority he's going to have. This must be understood before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u161	Next, please, Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u162	Mr. Head, in support of the initiative to postpone consideration of the issue of the Minister of Information, I would like to give the floor to my colleague Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u163	Please, Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to give the floor to those who have failed or who have not been able to give the floor. The coalition agreed? Yes. Please, non-fractional, who was, ask the minister within ten minutes and at this end, all thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u165	Thank you. [[Applause]] Deputy Marchenko from the non-faulty. Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u166	I give you my word, Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u167	National deputy Golovko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u168	Dear Head, I'd like to ask the future minister of the economy a question. Because you know that the faction, a more faithful group of the All-U.S. Freedom Association, has registered today a bill on the denunciation of the Cyprus Agreement. What we have seen has been exported from Ukraine in recent years. And the fact that Ukraine's economy is practically everything in the shadows. How do you feel about this? Will you support our position to recover the funds stolen from Ukraine from offshore back to Ukraine to work for the development of the Ukrainian economy? And are you really ready to take the economy out of the shadow that is now over 60 percent? And finally get the oligarchs to pay their taxes, not put a stamp on the necks of the Ukrainian people. And finally in such a way that social justice takes place so that Ukrainians can live decently on their God-given land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u169	Thank you for asking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u170	Good afternoon! My name is Ivaras Abramovichus, and I have been a citizen of Ukraine since today, and this is a great honor, and therefore a crazy responsibility. [[Applause]] I am a patriot of Ukraine, Ukraine is no stranger to me, I have been married in Ukraine for 10 years, I have lived here for the last 6 years, I have lived in Moscow for 3 years, I have lived in Stockholm for 7 years, I have been in Estonia for 6 years, I have been in America for half a year, I have left Lithuania at 17 years. [[Applause]] Thanks very much to Arsenia Petrovich for the brief content of my career, I have actually made one of the most successful investment campaigns in Eastern Europe, currently invested in about 40 countries, with a total capital of about $4 billion. With regard to the specific issue of de-offshoring, of course we are against de-offshoring. And I have faced various problems in the Ukrainian business and transfer pricing and other things. And, of course, the question of the return of stolen funds from Ukraine is probably not a matter for the Ministry of Economic Development, it is probably for the Ministry of the Interior, Interpol and others, but of course it must be tackled further. With regard to my methods of work, I am from Europe, we will work in Europe. As for what we're going to do from the very first moment at work, it's clear that there's a good document, there's a lot of documents written, unfortunately, until nothing's been done. There's a coalition agreement, a very good document, very good stuff, there's a twenty-twenty strategy. Same thing, right now, I'm editing the book. That's what it's called. "193 pages of the right things." I'm basically a reformer, and we're going to treat the regulators hard, and the business is being disrupted by all the structures that work. Arsenius Petrovich has already said that there will be a reform of public enterprises. Therefore, the work remains a long, complex Ukraine, the poorest country, the most corrupt country in the world, 112 on the business ease list. We need to act very quickly, very hard in these times, using the most radical methods, I'd say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u171	Thank you. Please, Economic Development, National Deputy Homutinnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the Economic Development Group does not support the position on the involvement of foreign professionals, it is not because you have insufficient experience and we are only grateful that you have responded. We stand in the position that there are also many experts in Ukraine who can work under these difficult conditions. We are impressed by the position of the economic bloc and personally by those candidates, such as Natalia Jaresko, very many positive feedback about it personally in any investment environment. And also what Mr. Ivaros said, we also think that these steps will be taken, because now the economy is in a very difficult environment. I only have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u173	Thank you. Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u174	I have a short question. As far as you can see, you've come to Ukraine, and how long do you need to work together as a team in the government and really fix the economic situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u175	The candidate has now presented or answered this question. Please, "The will of the people." People's MP Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u176	Respectable. Oh, my God! Indeed, the economy of Ukraine has undergone tectonic changes in the past year, we are at war today, we have lost control of the largest industrial region. Are you in control with the Minister of Finance, which you will need in the face of an investment hunger to create a virtually new economic model of Ukraine, which has not yet been established. Which should be new in its parameters, overcome deficits and achieve stable growth. Have you seen such a team of professionals today, or are you bringing it in to solve these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u177	To whom was that a question? That's right. Thank you. Arsen Borisovich Avakov, People's Front. What can be done is a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u178	No questions? Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! I have a proposal, questions have been asked, the Prime Minister has presented ministers today, discussed them for two days on factions, accepted the list as a basis. And it seems to me that we can now put questions to the vote in general on Order No. 1008 according to the Constitution of Ukraine for a vote, and I will ask questions about the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers for a list proposed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Yeah? Alexander the Turkinov, please. Alexander the Turkinov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u179	Dear colleagues! When you look to the right of me, you'll see empty spaces of the opposition block, that's a party of regions that support separatists who work with the invaders and so on. I am addressing all members of the coalition, dear colleagues, don't be like the representatives of the so-called opposition bloc, [[Applause]] Now we are together all 300 national deputies to support the Cabinet of Ministers, taking responsibility for the situation in the country with them. I call on all the national deputies, including non-factional ones, to make my choice with whom you are: with those who have left their places as a common traitor, or with the Ukrainian people who defend their country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u180	Dear colleagues, since the time for discussion is over, I'll put it to the vote, otherwise we'll be talking for a very long time now. I'll put it to a vote. Please invite the deputies to the hall. I am voting in accordance with articles 85 and. The Constitution of Ukraine, the proposal for the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers (Decision No. 1008) is put to the vote. I am asking to vote on the people's deputies of Ukraine. On the basis and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. [[20:04:51]] For 288 Decision taken. Let's welcome the government of Ukraine! [[Applause]] I'll tell you in the end. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down with the national deputies, the decision is made. In accordance with article 10, please sit down, Your Honor, in accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers in the formation of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the oath is read by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and the text is signed by each member of the Cabinet of Ministers. I give my word to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u181	First of all, allow me to thank you for the form of government in these difficult circumstances. I'm sure we'll be able to handle all the problems together. And I'm sure what millions of Ukrainians are hoping for will be done for us. We have a complex mission, a historic mission. But historical responsibility offers historic chances. We have a historic chance to create a new Ukraine. And we're not just gonna take this chance, we're gonna do it! [[Applause]] Before assuming the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Prime Minister will read the oath and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will sign it. Let me read the oath. "I, Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovich, knowing the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear to the loyalty of the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, the constant democratic development of society. I am taking the position of prime minister, and the government is taking on its responsibilities. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u182	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, a matter of procedure. People's deputies please sit down. We have a few more procedural questions on this point. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u183	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I am addressing members of the government who are national deputies! We would like to begin our work with the exercise of constitutional powers, and all members of the government who are the national deputies of Ukraine will declare their credentials to be national deputies of Ukraine. We think that would fit the Constitution, the new style of government and parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u184	Thank you, MP. I would like to point out that such statements have been made by the Prime Minister and the National Deputies who have entered the Cabinet of Ministers and we will vote. Please. I'm going to put in a few orders right now, including a vote on each of the national MPs separately who's made the mandate. We have yet to make a decision on the dismissal of members of the previous Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would now like to place, issued Decree No. 1202 on the release of Groysman Vladimir Borisovich from his respective post as Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing. We'll still go get it. including the People's Deputies. Please put to the vote, please vote on the basis and in general, 1202, please vote, Your Honor. [[20:09:11]] For 304 It's been decided. Next order. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Order (registration number 1203) on the release of members of the Cabinet of Ministers of the previous composition of Ukraine", 1203. Please put to the vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[20:10:22]] For 297 Decision taken. Next, please. According to part three of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, if submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration of the appointment of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a person who is a national deputy of Ukraine is added to the submission of a personal statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on his term of office as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The newly appointed members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine submitted such applications to the Supreme Council. The question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy is addressed immediately by the Supreme Council at the same plenary meeting after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers. Accordingly, respected colleagues came forward with a statement. According to article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian national deputy Arsenij Petrovich Yacenuk made this statement: he was appointed prime minister of Ukraine. Accordingly, I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of the national deputy, Yacenjuk Arseny Petrovich. Please vote. Individually, this is what the procedure requires. [[20:11:49]] For 313 Decision taken. Next, please. I am voting on the proposal to suspend the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Avakov Arsena Borisovich. Please vote. [[20:12:14]] For 309 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to suspend the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Vashchevska Valerija Mikolaiovich. [[20:12:37]] For-300 Decision taken. Next, please. I am voting on the proposal to suspend the mandate of the national deputy, Zhdanov Igor Aleksandrovič. [[20:13:01]] For-300 Decision taken. On the establishment of the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kveta Sergija Mironović. Please vote. [[20:13:22]] For 303 Decision taken. Next. On the appointment of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kirilenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Please vote. [[20:13:46]] For 306 Decision taken. Next, on the appointment of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rosenk Paul Valeriyovich. He's going faster than he's been assigned, isn't he? Please vote. Rosenko Paul Valeriyovich, on the establishment of powers. [[20:14:09]] For 306 Decision taken. And according to the deadline for the suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Stez Jury Jaroslavovich. Please put to the vote. No one asks any questions. [[20:14:34]] For 285. 2 – against. Decision taken. Please, I would like to invite you to the words of Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u185	Please grant my application to terminate the term of office of a national deputy in connection with the election of a minister of justice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u186	Like, we've already voted, you've heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u187	You didn't say your last name, so please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-02-m1.u188	Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovich. Let me do it again. About the permanent suspension of the authority of Ukraine’s national deputy, Petrenk Pavel Dmitrovic. Vote please, Your Honor. In accordance with the application, please vote. [[20:15:22]] For 305 Decision taken. Next. I give a protocol mandate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draw up appropriate personal decisions according to the vote that has just taken place. I would also like to point out another point, to conclude, by fellow believers. The question is that a biographical reference was given to the national deputy of the Voscevski Valerius Mikolaiovich, in which the information was completely unconfirmed and is not an official biography of this national deputy. So now I'm assigning the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to conduct a service investigation, as was the case that the biographies were in the session room. And inform the people's deputies of who did it, in what way and for what purpose. If signs of crime are identified, it is appropriate to react to current legislation. Dear colleagues! I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, the first session of the Supreme Council Head, the first day, it's not easy enough. I realize that someone might be satisfied and someone might not. But I, on the other hand, understand that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has taken on a sufficiently serious, weighty responsibility. Those people who are in the Presidium, they're brave enough, and I deeply believe that they won't answer the question from the Hall, but by their daily work, I'm talking about it as a former government official, they'll be able to prove that our choice with you, the choice of the Ukrainian people, wasn't unnecessary. And I would also like to point out that our task with you is not only to vote for the government today but also to support the government under extremely difficult conditions. Of course, to provide both support and effective parliamentary control. Raising the role of parliament and the people's deputies is our shared task with you. And the important thing is that we know that we need to restore trust in all the institutions of power in Ukraine. And I believe that the joint efforts of the President, the Parliament, the government will do everything to eventually bring about reforms in Ukraine, there was peace, there was a return of Donbas, it was done to make everyone from a young child to an elderly person feel in charge of it. And, of course, every territorial community would be given the right and opportunity to develop, to receive the budget and to develop our own, beautiful, wonderful Ukraine with you. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m. And now I declare the meeting adjourned. Thank you.
