ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to join us all in the session room, please take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. During the morning session, you and I were able to accept many important questions. Some of the laws we adopted in the first reading are now being worked out. And I hope that during the evening session we will work with you no less effectively. Let me remind you that on the initiative of MPs and factions, we will be able to listen to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. The head of the National Bank of Ukraine prepares for the presentation and asks for about 15-20 minutes. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking that you and I now continue to work on the agenda, and in about 15-20 minutes, we could hear the head of the National Bank of Ukraine about the situation in the national financial markets. And now, dear colleagues, I suggest we look at a cluster of issues -- these are two legislative acts that have to do with re-examination of the President's proposals. First. This is Law 4931, which is the Act of Ukraine amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interim Occupied Territory of Ukraine (for the place of residence and the right to education). President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Knazević Ruslan Petrovich for the parliamentary rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we continue to work! I'm asking the boy not to bully in the session room. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council a bill (number 1237-7) with his proposals. Allow me to make a suggestion and an editorial in which the President of Ukraine proposes to make an appropriate law. In particular, article 6 is proposed to complement part 4 of the following content: "At the request of Ukrainian citizens who live in or have moved from a temporarily occupied territory, they are formed and issued by the executive authorities, which implements national policies in the field of migration, immigration and migration, including the opposition to illegal illegal illegal migration, citizenship, the registration of natural persons, refugees and others, as defined by the legislation of the categories of migrants, the assistance that confirms their whereabouts. Such assistance is issued to citizens on the day of the appeal on the basis of a passport issued by a Ukrainian citizen or other document to which, according to the Ukrainian Freedom of Movement Act, the free choice of residence in Ukraine is provided with information on the registration of the place of residence and a written statement indicating the address at which the citizen may be served by official correspondence. Such a person’s place of residence is not included in his or her passport. The model and procedure for the provision of assistance confirming the place of residence, an example of a written statement submitted by a citizen for obtaining help, is approved by the central authority of the executive authority, which ensures the formation of State policies in the field of migration, immigration and migration, including the opposition to illegal, illegal migration, citizenship, registration of natural persons, refugees and other legislatively defined categories of migrants." The other one. Part 12 of article 7 suggests that the following should be made: "The citizens of Ukraine, who live in or have moved from a temporarily occupied territory, have the right to acquire or continue to gain a certain educational level in other regions of Ukraine, at the expense of the state budget, with the provision of accommodations in dormitories at the time of education. The citizens of Ukraine, as defined in paragraph 1 of this article, have the right to obtain a certain level of education at the expense of budgetary resources in public and municipal institutions according to the conditions of admission to higher education for the corresponding year, approved by the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of public policy in the fields of education and science. In the event that such citizens are not included in the list of persons recommended by the higher education institution to the place of the government, the central authority of the executive authority, whose administration is referred to by the educational institution, provides – in brackets – (places) additional places of public procurement, taking into account directly chosen by the Aboriginal in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." The final clauses foresee that this law takes effect from the day of their publication, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within 15 days from the date of entry into force of this law is required to bring its legal acts into conformity with this law. Ensure that ministries and other central authorities bring their implementing acts into line with this law. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support these Presidential proposals, as drafted, and I very much hope that they will be supported, because they are in agreement with virtually all the factions of Parliament, as well as with the committee that prepared this bill for adoption in the Hall. I have completed the report, Your Honor. Please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u3	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the attention of all national deputies? Is there a question for the President? There's a question. Please, National Deputy Herman. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u4	Dear Mr. Head, that's the President's right offer. However, I wanted to point out that in order to get a higher education, I had to finish high school first. Did you know that there is no school in the liberated areas in any city to survive? And what is the President and the government trying to do to make children, if not September 1, even if they had the opportunity to go to school on October 1st? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u5	Thank you very much, Mrs. Anna. Well, as far as this law is concerned, if two words, I want to tell you that without solving this problem, we have a vacuum. All Ukrainian citizens who live in the territory occupied at the moment will not be able to provide their children with possible education in Ukrainian universities, as such funds are simply not available in the Ukrainian budget. I'd like to ask you very much to support the Presidential proposals, this question will be resolved. With regard to another issue, you know that appropriate assignments are given in those areas that are being phased out by antiterrorists. The President's mandate is that all schools are being prepared by the government before the beginning of the school year. They are in extreme intensive mode preparing, to the extent appropriate, for the release of the populace. We hope that by the beginning of the school year, the new issue will be resolved as much as possible in the areas where the anti-terrorist operation is now taking place. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u6	Please, Miroshnichenko, National Deputy. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u7	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to the fact that this law does not call into question even the biggest skeptics in the room right now. This is the law that really protects our citizens' right to education. We have already supported this law and the President's remarks improve its quality. So I ask all of our colleagues to support these amendments so that this bill enters into force. And I want to ask Ruslan Petrovich whether this law will be accompanied by efforts to ensure quality higher education and introduce a new edition of the Higher Education Act in the context of this law, these amendments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u8	These amendments allow for the provision of additional budget space at the expense of Ukrainian universities in the case of a child whose place of registration is currently under occupation. In this case, in the view of the President, and we hope that Parliament will support this idea, we should allocate additional funds from the budget. This is not the case when we should be saving on the budget. Let God make it a large number of Ukrainians who want and are not ashamed of being Ukrainian, to continue to allow their children to learn in Ukrainian universities. But now we don't know how many of these kids are going to be. If even these children are enough, I think this is where we should look for additional sources of funding, perhaps by narrowing down other sources. Because it will be a beautiful signal for both Ukrainian society and Ukrainians who live in the territory occupied temporarily, about what Ukraine is looking for and finding all possible conditions to provide a perspective for Ukrainians who, by their will, found themselves in occupied territories, to give their children a future in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u9	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u10	Our faction will certainly support the President's initiative, but I'd like to ask you a question, Alexander Valentinovich. Would you please tell me that now we're not allowed to close the rat crossings and vote on the illustrative laws? We understand very well that in these circumstances we will need votes to meet the main requirement of Eromaydan and anti-Maidan, if you will, to conduct a illustration in the country. We will be able to do in the end the will of those people, the children who died in Eromaydan. We need to start a new Ukraine today from the breaking of this law, and this is a requirement of 95 percent of Ukrainians, and the last five are those who don't want to do it, in this room and their children.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! I would very much ask that we now speak to the context of the issue that we are considering. I don't prevent the MPs from doing the piano when it doesn't conflict with the Supreme Council Rules. As far as the laws of illustration are concerned. We've discussed this with factions, with faction leaders. In view of the fact that you and I today supported the proposal to include this issue in the agenda, I remind you, at the morning session we included this issue in the agenda. Now, the profiling committees have to consider on Wednesday bills that are alternative to this issue, and on Thursday they'll be included in the session room, dot. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u12	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear Ruslan Petrovich. The President's proposals are correct, so I don't have a question, but rather a request to clarify one norm, because it will apply to higher education institutions now, because in fact the introductory campaign has been completed. Here is the President's proposal that further education, I quote, "the citizens of Ukraine from the temporarily occupied territories are being carried out in higher educational establishments located in other regions of Ukraine on general grounds, but within the overall scope of the expenditure envisaged by this institution for the preparation of personnel and the volume of government procurement." Do you understand? Each higher educational institution has its own volume of government procurement. A number of people have already grown to this extent. On what account might there be other aboriginals who did not first enter this amount of the order? Explain this to the heads of the educational institutions. Thank you. It's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u13	I'd like to read it one last time. The point in the paragraph is that, if not enough, additional seats are allocated for the corresponding graduates. Dedicated accordingly by a branch that is additionally financed by the State budget. [[Noise Nodes]] They're going to be more funded in that case, if they're going to go above the government's standards of supply. But I don't think there's going to be that many. It's obviously hundreds, God forbid, thousands, but I think it's within Ukraine that it's not, let's say, a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u14	Dear colleagues! We've discussed this enough. The President's representative answered all the questions asked by the factions. Please, Ruslan Petrovich, take your seat. Do you vote here? There's a card. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats, please calm down. Colleagues! Colleagues! I also address the German Leonidas, a national MP. Please return the national deputy of Yemen to the rostrum. Please take your seat. Dear colleagues! All the speakers supported the proposal that we adopt this law in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. No other suggestions? None. Please, Your Honor, back up the whole new bill, taking into account the President's proposals. Let me remind you: 4931 is the registration number of this legislative act. Please, Your Honor, vote. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[16:34:36]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 72, Regions – 5, Impact – 35, 25 – Economic Development, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30? 35, Freedom, non-fractional, 36. The next question, respected colleagues, is also related to the President’s proposals. This refers to the legislative act "On the legal status of persons who are forced to leave their homes as a result of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and the circumstances associated with the conduct of an anti-terror operation in Ukraine" with the President's proposals. Please, Ruslan Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! According to the President of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 June 2014 by the Law on the Legal Status of Persons Forced to Leave Destinations as a result of the temporary occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol and the circumstances associated with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation in Ukraine, it cannot be signed by the President for such reasons. The purpose of this law was to create an effective mechanism to address the problems of forced migrants, to ensure their integration into a new place of residence and to protect their rights effectively. However, the analysis of the law shows that, unfortunately, it does not fully address the identified issues and instead contains positions that conflict with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine believes that this law consists largely of banquet rebuttal rules that address key issues to other laws and to future decisions of the government and other bylaws. The law then has a declarative nature and does not put in place effective mechanisms to provide State aid to forced migrants and does not meet international standards for the protection of such persons. According to the Head of State, a number of laws do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Budget Code of Ukraine and the Law on Central Executive Authorities. In particular, there can be no support for allocation rules, first: the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to approve the use of the specified entire funds of local budgets, as this is a violation of the constitutional rights of the territorial community as owner of local budgets. The next is the central executive authority in the field of migration with powers to coordinate the interaction of executive authorities and the formation of territorial bodies. These issues are resolved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And finally, the central executive authority in the field of migration has the right to approve the procedure for filing a review and the model for obtaining a certificate from a forced migrant. Only the Ministry, as the body that ensures the formation of state policy in the relevant spheres, ensures the regulatory and legal regulation and the right to issue regulations and regulations. In addition, the law does not reconcile bases and concepts. Like "forced abandonment of a person's place of residence," "forced migrants" etc., and that would not allow a clear identification of people who would be entitled to state aid. There are also no appropriate criteria for determining the start and completion time of the ATO. A list of criteria prohibiting discrimination against forced migrants has been laid down far more than constitutionally defined guarantees of equality. There are no clear criteria that determine the basis for forced abandonment. It is also unclear which authorities should support such reasons. This also applies to compensation to forced migrants for losses resulting from temporary occupation or maintenance of ATO property. Children deprived of parental care remain outside the legal framework of this law. Thus, according to the President of Ukraine, the law proposed for signature to the President of Ukraine does not provide for a comprehensive mechanism of assistance and protection by the State of the rights and legitimate interests of internally displaced persons, contains a position that does not meet the constitutional principles of guarantees of citizens' rights, contravenes the Constitution of Ukraine and legislative acts. At the same time, the President of Ukraine, proposing to reject this law, promises in the near future, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, to work out and bring to the fore a law in a new edition that would absorb all the shortcomings that I have just heard and, as the President of Ukraine believes, provide a truly effective mechanism for resolving this issue. Therefore, honourable colleagues are invited to support the President's position on rejecting this bill. Instead, after the introduction of the relevant bill, the President will ask Parliament to support the bill, which will be introduced as an urgent matter for consideration. Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the President's representative's proposal is to reject the law. Are there any suggestions for overcoming the veto on this law, your honor? No suggestions. That is why I am voting on the proposal of the President's Representative to reject this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please make up your mind on this matter. Let me remind you, this is Bill 4998-1. The proposal is to reject it by allowing the President to be introduced a bill in a new edition that regulates these problems that are placed under the jurisdiction of this legislative act. Please, Your Honor, support this bill's rejection. Please vote. [[16:40:38]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I can put the veto to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask, Your Honor, for him to be rejected then, we must put the veto to the vote. When the veto fails, it is regarded as rejected. So let's work on the Rules. I'm betting on the President's veto. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? Please vote. [[16:41:19]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the bill is considered rejected. I'm asking that we get a new draft of this law as soon as possible, it's important to our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have already begun to work towards the issue of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, with the temporarily occupied territories, we have a question with you that we need to make a decision about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u17	Nazbank's head is coming along, dear fellows, don't be nervous! Prepared by Nazbank's Head for the show. We will be sure to hear the information of Nazbank’s Head. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision on the matter under discussion. We've discussed with you very carefully Bill 4032a -- this is a project on tax and customs control in the Crimea free economic zone and the specificities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory. I'd like one minute to give Sergei Teryochin, who worked with the profile committee on this project so that we can make a decision. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u18	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we discussed this project, put it to a vote, it was on Friday, we didn't get a vote. What's the point of this project? Three positions. The first position is that we are actually exempt from the legal responsibility of entrepreneurs who are currently in occupied territory and cannot, under force majeure conditions, pay taxes to the Ukrainian budget. That's the first one. Secondly, we introduce rules that allow for the evacuation of businesses to unoccupied territory, and, among other things, we encourage financially those who are internally displaced. And the third position is we're finally putting the system on the administrative border of the temporarily occupied territory. I can remind you that right now we even have to ask for a passport to show or there is no reason for the goods to be in Ukrainian law because we have the Freedom Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u19	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u20	About the free movement of citizens, you know, the territory of Ukraine. There were allegations that there was, on the one hand, a free trade in Crimea. Nothing like that. This law is based on the current legislation of Ukraine: the Customs Code, the Civil Code, and no new rules. On the other hand, there were such original things as, let's say, taxes paid to the Russian budget, including tax cuts paid to the Ukrainian budget. The same, de facto, were proposals to acknowledge the annexation of Crimea. In the end, I can say that this law is necessary for everyone, not political, sanctions for Russian companies, not Ukrainian companies can be introduced by the law that we adopted in the first reading and now it is being prepared for the second reading. This law has no relation to geopolitics except for one, unless the Supreme Council supports this law, we de facto recognize that there is no economic sovereignty in Ukraine in the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Again, I urge everyone to vote, if it doesn't work out, on the second reading to send it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Do you understand the position? [[B in m in s a l in]] The government supports, I understand, the project – the representative of Minfin confirms, Fudashkin, this position. Honorable colleagues, the proposal on the basis and generally the adoption of this law, are there no other proposals? Oh, is that a second reading? Excuse me, second reading, thank you, and in general. Please, Your Honor, support this law as a whole, please vote. [[16:46:02]] For 227 [[Applause]] Decision taken. For 227 votes. The factions, please. Parenthood – 66, regions – 58, impact – 0, Economic Development – 27, SMS – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, Freedom – 35, non-fractional – 34. Dear colleagues! You and I should have information from the Head of the National Bank right now. Come here, please, I don't hear what you're saying. But I still can't see Nazbank's head. I ask the Secretariat to provide information on the readiness of Nazbank’s head. Now, dear fellows. Don't break up, we're working! And now, dear fellows, there's an offer. I hope that Nazbank will be in the session room in the near future. Anyway, I was told that Mrs. Gottaareva was already here, in the towers of the Supreme Council, preparing her performance. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. I'm addressing the people's deputies. An Important Question! During the morning session, you and I were unable to support the implementation bill. include in the agenda of the day on the execution of justice and criminal conduct in connection with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation. You remember what this is about. It's a counter-terrorism operation area where the courts actually don't work, but the judiciary has to be conducted, and that's what this draft legislative act is about. I ask you very much, dear colleagues, to sit in your workplace. Please, the Secretariat, invite the national MPs. Colleagues, let's stop walking around the hall, take your seats. Please, Your Honor, 4447a. Colleagues, everyone backs up, I know this law. Judiciality should take place, regardless of the provocations that are being carried out against Ukraine in eastern Ukraine. Please, dear fellows. 4447a, maintain inclusion in the agenda. Colleagues! In order of the day. Please, Your Honor, vote, 4447a put into the agenda. Please be supportive. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:48:58]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The factions, please. 69 – "Paternity", "regions" – 1.31 – "BACK", 28 – "Economic development", "MS" – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 10, unfortunately only votes and "Freedom" – 35.21 – are non-fractional. Dear colleagues, Igor Mironovich, I'm referring to the Sovereign European Ukraine, colleagues, can we try again to support the inclusion of this law? Igor Mironovich, can we still mobilize to include this law in the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u22	What's that? Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u23	We can. Colleagues, please, this is a question that concerns our citizens. Please, let's take our seats. Please, colleagues, take your seat, Alexander Fedorovich. Let's try again, I'll try to put this project in the order of the day session. Please, Your Honor, Alexander Fedorovich, we vote in our place of employment. Please, Your Honor, 4447a for inclusion in the agenda. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[16:50:27]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 68 – Fatherland, 0 – Regions, 34 – Impact, 29 – Economic Development, 0 – Sovereign, European Ukraine – 22, "Freedom" – 35.18 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, he requests the Attorney General's Office to return to the project (4446a) to amend the Procurator's Act on the Establishment of Military Prosecutors. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to join the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[16:51:17]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, no, the decision is not made. For 194, only voices. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Please. 67 – Fatherland, 0 – Region, 31 – Impact, 25 – Economic Development, 0 – Sovereign European Ukraine – 13.35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 23. Dear colleagues, and the last attempt on Law 4226a. This is a law that applies to the Ukrainian Security Service, strengthening their powers in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation. Please, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the Caplin microphone. Only by the content of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this law. All people in the country are asking if there will be a large - scale invasion of war. There are two ways to prevent diversions and terrorism: first, by crossing the border and second, by substantially strengthening the work of the Ukrainian Security Service in preventing diversions and terrorism. Now we're going to give the Ukrainian Security Service the opportunity to support its initiative (this is our joint bill and we've been working together) to create an appropriate special unit that will show those terrorists and divers, groups, organizers, financiers and stop all these actions. So now it's up to you to vote whether we have an effective mechanism to prevent all these problems across Ukraine. Today, the road wants to do the same thing in Herson, Odessa, in Kharkiv. This is an extremely relevant law, law number one among the anti-terrorist laws. I'm begging you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, offer. Add to the agenda a bill (register 4226a) that is now being reported by the National MP Kalin. Please, Your Honor, keep the agenda in order. Please vote. [[16:53:44]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 69, regions – 0.34 – Impact, 29 – Economic Development, 0 – SMS, Sovereign European Ukraine – 19.35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, please. We still have a question of the order of the day. Let's finish the day-to-day issue. I'll be able to make additional proposals. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now. Dear colleagues, we have a block that relates to the second reading. This is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to update the state apparatus and simplify the provision of administrative services. Dear colleagues, in fact, we're already talking about the illustration, only in this case did we talk about the illustration of the officials. And you remember the block of initiative reported by the minister of justice of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the head of the Pisarenk Valery Volodymyrovich profile committee, please. Turn on the mic at Pisarenko's place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u26	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We had a lot of suggestions for this bill, but unfortunately, because of the planning of the committee work for tomorrow, we had to ask the question for tomorrow. There was a committee on Wednesday. So today we don't have a table to look at today in the session room. So we can look at it on the committee, and on the next plenary day, we'll take it to the session room. A lot of suggestions, a system law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u27	I mean, I understand, the offer of a profile committee tomorrow, Wednesday, to look at the committee and Thursday in general to accept it in the session room. Dear colleagues, we need to support the committee. In the absence of a table, we cannot improvise in this regard. Dear colleagues, now. I say again, we have two more questions to consider. I'll give you a chance to speak. Dear colleagues! The next question is 3818. The draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Medical Devices to Improve the Order of Custody by Medical Devices for Treatment, Attention, Socially Dangerous and Serious Diseases. Dear colleagues, this is also true of the issue of providing medicines for fighters protecting Ukraine in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas that are involved in the antiterrorist operation. Before we vote, let's give the floor to the committee head, please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u28	Dear Alexander Valentinovich. Honorable National MPs. The bill, 3818, was registered on December 24, 2013 and was adopted in Parliament on June 3, 2014. 282 national deputies voted for him. The purpose of the bill is to improve people’s access to medicines for tuberculosis, AIDS, viral hepatitis, cancer, and rare orthopaedic diseases. This bill has received 29 amendments from 6 national deputies, including 21 amendments, 8 rejected, which do not comply with EU procedures for admission to the market and contravene the substance of the bill. In addition, the preparation of the bill for second reading by the people’s deputies of the Bahamas and Heleway is amended to allow the import and use of unregistered medical devices from foreign nations in Ukraine to provide medical assistance to military personnel in the face of extraordinary situations of a military nature. These include medicines and serums and vaccines needed to save the lives of our people. This is a very urgent problem for us today. Her decision is still addressed by Heleway Oleg Ivanovich, 4148a, and if Bill 3818 is to be adopted today, there is no need to consider the bill. The committee also had a proposal on the need to expand the list of countries from which medicines can be registered in Ukraine under reduced procedures. These are countries that apply high standards to the quality of medicines — Switzerland, Japan, Australia, Canada. So I propose (under the transcript) to add to the text of the bill after the words “registered by the competent authority of the United States of America” through comas, in the words “Switzerland, Japan, Australia, Canada” and beyond. This bill needs to be adopted because it will provide our citizens with quality medical supplies, speed up their access to our market and reduce their cost to consumers, and also solve the acute problems of securing today's ATO situation that is in our country. Thank you. Please support as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! Can we vote as a whole as a law? We can. The only supplement is, please stay in place to comment. From the Cabinet of Ministers, who will comment? Please include the microphone in the government’s bed of Salutin Ruslan Viktorovich, the first Deputy Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! In the Ministry of Health, there is a proposal for paragraph 2 of the second paragraph of part two of article 17 to read: "In cases of natural disasters, disasters, epidemiological diseases, anti-terrorist operations, introduction of war, state of emergency, etc. According to a separate decision of the central executive body that implements public health policies, imports and applications are permitted without the right to apply to pharmacies not registered in Ukraine for the medical supplies of foreign countries for documents that confirm their implementation and use in these countries, since military personnel and peaceful Ukrainians need appropriate and medical care in the listed cases.".. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u31	Supported by the committee. Dear colleagues! There's a proposal for right-wing -- now, I see an arm -- of a profile committee and a clarification made by the Cabinet of Ministers to support the law. Please turn on the microphone, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u32	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Judging from what the deputy minister said, I have the impression that the Ministry wants to narrow the application of this law just for specific purposes. Well, do we think that if the drug has been tested in the United States or in the European Union, that it has not passed a sufficient test and that we cannot use this drug in Ukraine on the basis of these documents? So I'd like to ask the committee head to comment on whether I understand correctly. Because, as I understand it, the Ministry wants to continue to allow imports of these drugs. And only in certain cases will special procedures be allowed. So if that is the case, you can't vote for the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I've already said it's a bill (3818) prepared by our national MP, Dudka. It's about oncology, orthopaedic, tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS infection. And now there's the amendment of Bacheba and Helleway. Like the other drugs you need right now. And the government just added more countries. We, in our Dudka Bill, had EU and American countries before the second reading. And now it's going to be filled in: Switzerland, Australia, and Canada
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u34	What about the Ministry? What, Ruslan? Without their amendments, they confused this bill, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u35	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u36	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Alexander Valentinovich, the bill is very important. But we see a clear position of the impact faction. And we probably don't need to make proposals from the government right now and vote them in the form of a law. Because we keep stressing that the government has to work with the committee. That amendment that we're now offered with a voice, I understand, I wasn't listening on the committee, there was no "yes" or "against". And now we're proposing from a voice in the room to accept this amendment, which substantially changes the content of this bill. So there is a proposal to vote. If the government doesn't think it's right, the government is making an amendment in the form of a bill, and we're putting it back in the room. We should not now stop voting on this very important project for all. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u37	Please, National Deputy Ilik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u38	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency. Honorary colleagues, the form proposed by the Ministry, are presented in the form of a state of war or an extraordinary situation. Given that the state of war in Ukraine has not been implemented, we have no emergency situations, there is a proposal to adopt a bill in the second reading as voted with the committee's rulings. All matters relating to military status and related rights and decisions will be introduced after the status of military status has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u39	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u40	Mr. Head, Parliament is unanimous, you see, in voting on this bill without the amendment of the Ministry of Health. We ask you to meet the MPs so that we can approve this bill today, and then the procedure is already under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u41	I've got the position. Let's take the last one, the Zarubinski Oleg, and make the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u42	Thank you very much, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, there are various subjects of the right of legislative initiative: there are MPs, there is a government, there is a president. And what now is a bill in the paper that is all about drugs, I'm asking you to pay attention to, HIV-AIDS, oncology, tuberculosis, that is, those diseases that are, unfortunately, generally unprotected, poor populations. If that is the case, as the subject of the legislative initiative, we need to support this idea, and if there is another thought in another subject of the legislative initiative, they are fully entitled after we vote for this bill and start getting people, people, miserable people who are oncologists, getting medications, the government may be more likely to submit its bill with its rights to the already existing law. I propose a positive vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the position of all those who speak is the same. Proposal: Vote in committee. I emphasize that the committee, taking into account the amendments made by the people's deputies, has expanded the contents of this law, and it concerns not only the problems of tuberculosis, AIDS, etc., but also the treatment of our heroes who have been injured, the serious injuries, and our citizens during an anti-terrorist operation, so that it is without any unnecessary procedures to provide them with the necessary drugs. Yeah? The committee's head is in favour. Please sit down and support this project in an editorial committee that takes into account the stenographic position that was announced by Aunt Dmitry Bachette. Please, Your Honor, back up on the ground. I'm sorry, second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:07:55]] For 287 Decision taken. The Law is generally supported. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a request from the representative of the President. I'll give it to you, Nicholas, and so will the word. Turn on Prince Ruslan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, if possible, I would strongly urge and ask you to return now to the question of the inclusion of Law 4447a. Still, it is about trying to resolve the issue of the execution of justice and criminalization in connection with the conduct of an antiterrorist operation. As far as I can see, not all the national MPs who were in the room at the time of this debate are now the majority. And after consulting the factions, there is a request to ask again to include this issue, and today it is necessary to consider it. Time can't wait. You can imagine, while we're sitting, there's a name right now. The name of Ukraine is unknown, under the barrel of a machine gun, which decisions. And these decisions must be made by someone who is covering up the name of Ukraine. To avoid such shameful events and to settle the matter without delay, we must vote on this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u45	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I believe we must listen to the Head of the National Bank today. The National Bank has moved away from controlling the exchange rate of the bracelet. We now have a sinister inflation due to the fact that the National Bank does not affect the financial market. All those who have received foreign exchange loans will go bankrupt if such policies continue. I very much ask, Your Honor, the Head of the Supreme Council, to invite the Head of the National Bank to report. The second question. Alexander Valentinovich, I propose and very much ask you to include in the consideration of Supreme Council regulation 4460a on the need to address the grave deficiencies of mobilization. Children who have no military experience should not be sent to a war zone but should be used only to protect order in areas where they live but to direct professionals, those who have.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, as far as Natzbank's information is concerned, I promised you, there will be information today. We will not conclude the meeting until we hear from the Head of the National Bank. Anyway, the Head of the Nationals is already here. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to calm down, but there was a proposal by President Ruslan Knazević to try to support inclusion in the agenda and to consider a very important issue: this is a draft law on the execution of justice and criminal conduct in connection with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last time, I'm trying to ask this question about the inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support me. You've heard Ruslan Knazevitch's speech, a very important question, let's try to put it into the agenda. Please, Your Honor, 4447a. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of this project, please vote. [[17:11:45]] For 229 Thank you. Decision taken. Can we take him now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. I'm talking to Ruslan Petrovich. Ruslan Petrovich, turn on your microphone, take your seats. Is he ready for acceptance as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u48	This bill is ready for adoption as a whole, none of the factions have expressed their objection to the text of the bill. This bill is in agreement with all the respective, heads of the higher specialized courts of Ukraine, is the minister of justice he can also express his position, but the Ministry of Justice supports the relevant bill. So I don't see any, let's say, disagreements that need second reading. It can be accepted in general right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u49	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to you, can we not discuss this? We can. I ask Sanchenko Andry Vilenovich, please sit down and your vote may be decisive. Please, please, we're voting with buttons, not with our hands, the distinguished representatives of the Regions! Please, Your Honor, Andrew Vilenovich, we are now voting, proposal, honourable colleagues, to support as a whole. Please, Your Honor, support as a whole. Vote, Your Honor. [[17:13:25]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 74, Party of Regions – 0, Strike – 38, 28 - Economic Development, Peace and Stability – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, 35 - Freedom, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues! Please, we already have the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Pottery Valery Alexiyevna. Can we invite her to the rostrum? We can. Please, Valery Alexiyevna, to the Parliamentary Court. 15 minutes enough to give us information? In 15 minutes, please set the timer. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Then the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u50	Can I start?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u51	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u52	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I thank you for inviting me to the Supreme Council today because right now I have the opportunity to address every citizen of Ukraine from this rostrum. Clearly, all of you are concerned about the currency exchange rate and financial stability of the banking system. So I'm going to start with the exchange rate. First of all, what's going on in the currency market now, and the second question that the National Bank still needs to use to stabilize the currency market situation. Unfortunately, as you know, in recent weeks there has been a volatile situation in the currency market. These are objective and subjective reasons. The main reasons are objective. First of all, these are military actions in the East of the country, so the expectation of market subjects that are being strengthened daily by the provocative statements of various political parties about the high credibility of the beginning of a full-scale war with Russia, these panic sentiments are only spreading. For example, last night several leading bankers called me and told me that the war with Russia had already begun because the Russian convoy was already in Ukraine. But as you know, it was a humanitarian mission that had not yet taken place. So all of this causes extra pressure on the bracelet course. Secondly, it's a real, so-called Business Interupption, which has resulted in a balanced economic inflation rate, a decline in GDP, and a expectation of severe sanctions both on the part of Russia and on the part of Ukraine. Because the kind of sanctions that are expected, but no one knows what this is going to be, can lead to a deterioration in GDP for the future. Let us now move on to subjective factors. These are completely panicky sentiments among the population and business representatives, which have to do with the objective factors that I have already outlined. So this is our reality. But everyone should remember that Ukraine, from April of this year before adopting the Stand-by International Monetary Fund programme, agreed to meet a flexible exchange rate and move to the inflation targeting regime. But a flexible exchange rate does not mean free fall or free fall. Thus, the National Bank has been on the market three times in the last seven days with market interventions on currency sales and on the stability of the currency market. The National Bank carried out interventions, not at a fixed rate, but at a market rate, to correct the panic behavior of market participants. The National Bank has sold $150 million in the market over the last seven days and plans to continue to participate actively in the currency market. At the same time, I would like to point out that, according to the existing stand-by programme of the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine must maintain the minimum levels of the country's currency reserves. Moreover, I would like to emphasize to you that this is an eprayer action, which is the precondition on which it has to meet in order to get the next tranche of the International Monetary Fund. And I can help you. I can say that it's not just an agreed requirement of the International Monetary Fund, it's a requirement of the world, because it's a minimum level of foreign exchange reserves, it's a level of financial stability in the country, and all international aid programmes predict this minimum level of foreign exchange reserves in the country. We have a constant link with the International Monetary Fund. It's a daily conference coll. For example, yesterday I had a conference with Washington where we were discussing the currency market situation. It is clear to everyone that there are no economic factors for course 13. or 13.50. They're just panicky moods. Everyone understands that the course has gone far beyond its balanced level. Even in the face of war, a balanced course for today remained between 11.50 and 11.90 dollars per dollar. I want to point out that at the rate of 11.70 that we saw in July-months, our current deficit was almost flattened. And given the comings planned for this month alone, it's 500 million from the World Bank and a billion 450 million from the next tranche of the International Monetary Fund. Our balance of payments will be profitable this month. The National Bank is not going to pull away from the market and do everything possible to stabilize the course at its balanced or balanced level that I've already given you. So if only the market mechanisms that the National Bank is using today do not work, then the National Bank will offer the market a fairly hard administrative measure during an anti-terror operation. But as the head of the National Bank, I sincerely support the market, so now the National Bank is planning to take market action. But now we've started and discussed with the International Monetary Fund the tools of administrative action, and we find very constructive support from the International Monetary Fund. So I want to emphasize to everyone who's in a panic mood that everyone who's buying up currency at an elevated rate or in a shadow market today is going to regret this, because the NBA is stabilizing the system as soon as possible. I hope it's with market tools, but if we can't do it with market tools, we're going to introduce hard administrative measures. The financial stability of the banking system. I think it's going to be a question the next time, and it's also a very important question, because the National Bank, its main goal, is financial stability. The financial stability of the banking system is our main task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! We spoke to the faction leaders and the faction leaders offered to discuss it without question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, dear colleagues, I apologize. Valeria Alexiyevna does not object in principle to her being asked questions. So let's put it this way, let's write down the factions and the non-fractional I'll give you the opportunity to ask questions. Please note from the faction on one issue that we, too, honorary colleagues, do not stir up the situation or distract it. Please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Madam Head of Government of the National Bank of Ukraine! I have two questions. You have long told us about the objective reasons for the increase in the rate of the bracelet. Please tell me if it's not working. I have two questions. Here's the first one. And does it not affect the increase in the exchange rate of the large and time-consuming interview by the Head of Government of the National Bank, one of the main websites in which the Head of the National Bank says that it will not pursue stability and maintain the stability of the national currency? I just want to remind you of Article 99 of the Constitution that this is the main task of the National Bank, this is the first question. And the second question is, please tell me, during your headship, what amount of money has been allocated to refinance banks and, in particular, Russian banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u55	Now, let's have a great question, right at the point, let's answer it. One thing I can tell you is that no money has been issued to maintain bank liquidity to date; traditional securities tenders have been made; this is a daily liquidity mechanism for the banking system. Banks with Russian capital, Ukrainian banks with Russian capital, have never asked us to refinance at that time, in addition to maintaining liquidity at a sufficient level and keeping the full level of reserves completely at a sufficient level, with the outflow of deposits being one of the highest in the country at about 50 per cent. On the first question. You asked for an interview. Look, I just told you, too, that we have minimum reserves that we have to maintain for the International Monetary Fund and not just for it, but for the world because it is the stability of our monetary system. We support them, we have fully fulfilled the prayer action that we need to get the 29th number of the second tranche of a billion four hundred. Now the question is, what kind of money?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u57	We have the opportunity, we have unfortunately already spent 150 million, but we still have the opportunity not to reach the minimum level of reserves that we need to maintain, to do more interventions if there are panic rates in the market. This is incontravenient, the minimum level of reserves to date, under the International Fund programme, we will not touch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Potters, Peace and Stability, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u59	Thank you, please pass the word to Deputy Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u60	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u61	Good afternoon! I'd like to ask you, when in the last bill on the restructuring of monetary loans did we look at this issue, the question came, and I asked him, if the course, what kind of mechanism is it going to be? It's not enough that we haven't worked on that question yet, and there's no idea of a shared responsibility. So there's no responsibility assigned to the fluctuation of the course between people, banks and the state. People are now paying for everything themselves, translated into them. I have a simple question: what to do next, what clear plan? If the rate continues to fluctuate, what will happen to the loans that are taken in the currency? And how is the question of past bills resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u63	The most important question right now is to stabilize this course, and the most important question for you is to adopt the Knazević bill in second reading to help these creditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u64	Thank you. National Deputy Chevchenko, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u65	Please pass on the word to Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u66	Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Qaeda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mrs. Valeria, first of all, I would like to make a note that you are an officer of an extremely high rank in our country, and I ask from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to speak and give answers exclusively in Ukrainian -- first of all. Now the second one. The second question. For two months now, there has been a debt to pay the salaries of employees of the Lugani army. Even though the State Treasury is counted, the cost is counted, and by the way, the service bank is the UK Municipal Bank's PAT, which is delaying this utility bank by recalculating the salaries of these military personnel and the employees of the Lugani military units. I'm asking you to take personal control, figure out what this bank is making.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u68	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u69	Get in the mood. And in addition, I ask that all banks, primarily Russian banks that serve all Ukrainian government institutions, should be reviewed. To ban these banks from serving our government institutions. And this "Ukrainian Municipal Bank," according to some data, belongs to or is associated with the good of Ephraim. So once again, I would like you to take personal control and put an end to this shameful practice when it comes to delays through non-lethal banks. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u71	Taken under personal control.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u72	Thank you. The balance of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u73	Please pass the word to Vitalia Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u74	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u75	Dear Valery Alexyevno, thank you for your clear position in stabilizing the currency market situation. The Group "Economic Development" is hoping that you can contain the situation. Moreover, there is every reason for this. And you made them clear what the reasons were. It's also coming from international financial organizations. These are your direct possibilities of administrative impact on the situation. So I am convinced that you will be able to cope and that I want you to be determined in this situation. Because this, this situation, this is your first, first test since you were elected to this high office. We wish you this, once again, determination. And hopefully we won't be talking to you in that format anytime soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u76	Thank you very much and I hope you will be able to help me. Because only together can we do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u77	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u78	Madam Head of the National Bank, you've told us that you're about to stabilize your course. Could you say when that coming time and course will be, and if you fail to keep your word from the parliamentary rostrum today, will you be willing to give authority? That's the first question. And two, please. Please tell me, Madam, why only 50 percent of the foreign exchange proceeds are definitely sold by exporters on the foreign exchange market. Why isn't 100 percent of the sales required, because that's going to increase the exchange rate twice and increase the rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u79	First of all, I've already said that you have 226 votes to fire me even today if this professional somehow doesn't satisfy you. It's different. I'll tell you when we stabilize everything when you answer me when we end the war. Because war is a destroyer that interferes with everyone. As far as 50 percent of mandatory sales are concerned. Mrs. Hanna, about 50 percent sales. I can assure you that exporters sell between 70 and 100 percent. Because I even discussed this with bankers because I didn’t even understand why we had to sell 50 percent when our exporters were selling 70 percent. But today, when we discuss with the International Monetary Fund special measures to improve the situation, we are discussing this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u80	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u81	International Monetary Fund. And it provides for the liberalisation of the currency market.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, you will find out in the working order.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u83	We're looking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u84	Please, Ginkka, National MP, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u85	Olga Belkova wants to ask a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u86	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u87	Dear Valérie Alexienne, thank you very much for the meaningful report. Hopefully, it will develop a lot of myths and panic that exists today and is not on time in the market, and it will help Ukrainians understand and believe even more in the stability of the Ukrainian banking system. At the same time, I would like to ask you what position the NBA has today with regard to investors who have suffered in some way in the areas of the Donetsk Region, Lugansk and Crimea, those investors who are citizens of Ukraine who are faithful, let's say, to all our ideas and do not plan to leave the citizenship of Ukraine. And how will they be able to recover their funds, and how will the NBA help them in this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u88	All the money, this is Ukrainian citizens, this is our territory, all the money will be returned. The complexity is now just a disconnection of this area. Because in the ATO zone we can't work, the banking system can't work. But once we win, it will be restored in two or one days. So there's no doubt, one day, and we'll re-engage the entire banking system, one day, one day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u89	We have to finish. Please. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u90	Dear Valery Alexiyevna, you said you had close ties with the International Monetary Fund. I wanted to know how close they are with Ukrainians, with Ukrainian citizens? When will the ban on depositing deposits in Ukraine’s banks be lifted? And that would help people's faith, trust, the banking system. Because today people are afraid to take money to the banks because they fear that you will not give it up when they urgently need it. That's what people talk about at meetings, at receptions. Today you have to be treated, and the money can't be taken away. So when will people know clearly the position of the National Bank to protect the interests of the Ukrainian investor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u91	I agree with you for a hundred percent. Because no administrative action by the National Bank can be taken in the long run. So first of all, we need to make changes to the Civil Code. Because a deposit for a term means, for a term, not for any date, it can be broken. So when our Parliament, our Supreme Council help us, we will never take any administrative action.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, come on, I promised you, there'll be no-faction records. The first two will get the opportunity to ask questions. Please sign up for non-fractional. The first two will get the opportunity. Please, Miroshnichenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u93	The Honourable Head of the National Bank! First of all, I'd like to support your position on maintaining currency stability by market assets rather than administrative means. And allowing operators to manage the monetary resources they use to operate on the outside. And in this context, it is very important for the people's deputies that we work with you so that the policies of the National Bank are understood by both the people's deputies and the citizens of Ukraine. The exchange rate should correspond to the actual purchasing power of our currency. That's what we need to talk about. If the course needs to be adjusted, it needs to be advertised and gradually made possible by the ability of the operators to prepare for the course in accordance with its real value, I mean the value of the currency. So I'd like you to have a clear line of behavior and get closer to the banks. Because bankers are also intermediaries in between.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u95	One hundred percent I agree, I contact banks, 35 banks are every day. Because the 35 largest banks in Ukraine are 80 percent of the banking system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u96	Please, National Deputy Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u97	It's very hard, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u99	Dear Valery of Alexyevna, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u100	One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u101	Dear Valery of Alexyevna, thank you for holding the punch. Can't you see me? You were talking about that you're using market tools to regulate the exchange rate, and I think that's the right approach. But please tell me where you see the line between the market tools that you are using today and between the possible hard administrative tools that you can use. And was it necessary yesterday, or the day before yesterday, to use rigid administrative regulators to avoid being 3.50, as today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u102	If I were free of all our country's obligations to the Stand-by International Monetary Fund program, maybe this would have to be done by the end of that week. But you realize that we've prepared these measures and we've sent them to the International Monetary Fund for discussion. And we're talking about this right now. We're having a very constructive discussion. So it takes time. They don't work on Saturdays and Sundays because they don't have a war. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u103	All right, guys, let's do it again. I see a lot of hands. Guys, I get it. Guys, let's not press the situation. The head of the National Bank said that soon everything would be done to stabilize the course. This is the main thesis that we need to support. And of course, I'm asking the profile committee that, along with the National Bank, all measures to stabilize our monetary system will be in place as soon as possible. Dear colleagues, we're with you. Fellows, once again, let's not push the situation! Please. Please. Colleagues! Lots of hands, I see. Well, we had the opportunity to ask questions, including non-fractional ones. As the "Council" system defined, so I gave this opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Thank you, Valeria Alexyevna. Please work effectively and effectively for our country and to stabilize our financial system. Colleagues, please calm down. Please, Miroshnichenko, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u104	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, I am simply obliged to state from this place what is required of the people gathered at the Supreme Council. And there were a few hundred Harkians who came and insisted on it. Alexander Valentinovich, this is very important, I want you to hear it. insist that today’s agenda be put in place and that the August 6 ruling (4431), which provides for the early dissolution of the Harkow City Council, be considered. We know what crime Kharkiv City Council committed under the leadership of Kernes, assigning honorary citizens of the city of Kharkiv, the Ukrainian Harkov two Ukrainian phobics, bandits of the Russian Federation who voted in favour of the occupation of Crimea. Therefore, we insist that, on behalf of the Kharkiv community, this decree be put into order today and supported by the Supreme Council. Such a city council that is in Kharkiv cannot exist, for today it incites provocations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, please, the Yavorov National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, I have implemented a project in February, number 4187, Alexander Valentinovich, (4187) on the dissolution of the Harkowe City Council. There was and is now a draft of the Pavlovsky ruling, my colleague. Because, indeed, of the situation that occurred today in Kharkiv with the return of Kernis. You know, while he was lying in the hospital, in Kharkiv there was absolute peace, everything was normal and all that. Now it's been published recently, here's literally yesterday, Kerness's new interview, read it online what this man is saying. In addition, members of the landowners called the honorary citizens of the city of Harkov to those MPs of the Russian State who stubbornly campaigned and voted in favour of the introduction of troops to Ukraine. We'll do a very fair job today if we dissolve this city council that's in the back of ours today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u107	I see. Please, this is the People's Deputy Grachev from the Strike faction, please. Tchacouk, please, National Deputy, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u108	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we also have a decree (4433a) of 07.08. This is my decision, which I registered. And it tells us not only about the extra election of the Kharkiv City Council, but also about the Kharkiv City Head. So I propose that we also put this decision into the agenda today and vote. Thus, to express mistrust both to Kharkiv's city head and to Harkowsk city council together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Jeremeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u110	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! During the vote, journalists approached us and there was information that when Law 4032a was voted on, there were times when national MPs voted for others — not their cards. We ask that this law be put to the vote. You and I have made such a decision that, if there are such consequences and there is evidence, the law applies to voting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u111	Thank you. Please, Rudzkowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u112	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you very much if we want to consider the question of Kharkiv, Alexander Valentine's Day, make a group of national MPs in charge of the Vice-Speaker, let them go meet with the deputies, we've been so relieved that we've taken away Ukraine from the Crimea. We do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's convince the MPs, not wave. This is the first time. Secondly, Alexander Valentine's Day, you haven't given the head of the National Bank the opportunity to side with the bankers who are about to throw hundreds of thousands of dollars out of the currency lenders' apartments, or to side with them. The second question. Is it going to return 110 billion refunds that were given to banks, or is it going to nationalize these banks, in the end? And lastly, 100 percent of currency sales is just national stability.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u113	I see. Dear colleagues. Colleagues, come on, 'cause a lot of questions have been asked to make a decision. First of all, the voting that the national deputy Jeremiah spoke of. My colleagues, unfortunately, have given me the Rules now, 47 articles, it provides for a real vote, but for the next question. And my colleagues came to me, and we had three questions after that. So let us find another format or 131 articles of the Rules when there are disagreements in positions so that we can still determine the subject on the committee or make changes to the draft. So I would love to do that, but, frankly, I've been given the Rules, only before we consider the next issue can we put the bill to a vote, on the one hand. On the other hand, honourable colleagues, there were proposals by several national deputies and factions about the situation in Kharkiv, and several draft decisions were made. Offer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to request that these drafts be considered immediately by the Regulatory Committee so that you and I can act exclusively within the framework of the Constitution and the Rules. Then we can, calmly, we can do Thursday, Thursday, and the committee tells me -- local self-government, regulatory and local self-government. With us in the event that this meets all the requirements and competences of our Parliament, that we may return to this issue on Thursday when the will of the people's deputies will be. So, honourable colleagues, I'd like to ask, right now, that we don't vote against the ruling, because out of the voice, you know, it's easy to vote, and then it's hard to implement the laws and regulations that have been voted on. That is why I entrust the two committees, from local self-government and the Rules, to consider this issue and to make proposals for the decisions made. The rulings apply to both the Kharkiv City Council and the city’s head, Kharkiv. Dear colleagues, another proposal that was announced. It refers to the request of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agrarian Committee. This is Law 4987, Honorary Colleagues, 4987 is the Law on Animal Health, the issue of European Union standards. Is there a head of the profile committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u114	I won't. When it's not, it means asking the question I'm not going to be the head of the profile committee, the honourable colleagues, because it's the second reading. It's a second reading, and I need them to go over the table and tell them. Dear colleagues! We've got it. We've actually discussed it with you. Yeah, sorry, I'm wrong. We have another law, 2403, which is a second reading, to amend article 230 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (to control the circulation of alcohol and liquor products). Dear colleagues! Please, Vitaly Yuriovich. Is there a hamster? On the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u115	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Bill 2403, prepared for second reading, deals with the regulation of the ethyl alcohol market and liquor products. The bill aims to strengthen the control of the circulation and documentation of transactions from the import and export of ethyl alcohol and liqueur-helicopter products into the territory of excise warehouses. It should be noted that increasing control measures in alcohol operations is a government priority, and today this bill has been drafted with the Ministry of Finance to strengthen control in this market. Especially with regard to the shadow market of liquor. There were 37 proposals to the bill, and in fact all of them included 32, and the rest included in part, so we can vote in the second reading and in general the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-08-12-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to remind you that this is a draft law amending article 230 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the control of the circulation of alcohol and liquor products), the registration number of the 2403 project. Please, dear fellows. The committee's proposal is to support it in second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Please identify yourself to the Supreme Council for the support of this law as a whole. Please vote. [[17:50:31]] For 209 The decision is not taken. It's a little short. Dear colleagues, for a second reading then? Let's do the second reading again so that the law doesn't burn this one. Please back up, send Law 2403 to read again. Please vote. [[17:51:04]] For 225 Dear colleagues, I beg you, I'm sorry. The first reading went through, the second reading went through, and one vote was missing. Dear colleagues, may I repeat? Please come back to that question. Please turn to this question. There's a chance now. [[17:51:37]] For 240 Decision taken. In general or in the second? In general. Supports the government as a whole? Supports. Dear colleagues, please, about that. I would like to vote in favour of the entire bill, 2403. Please vote. [[17:52:13]] For 236 Decision taken. The factions, please. Please, "Fatherhood" – 66, 34 – Party of Regions, "WITH" Vitalia Klicka – 26, 27 – "Economic Development", 0 – MMA, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 19, "Freedom" – 34, non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? You and I have considered practically all of the issues of the agenda. We have the next offer. We consulted with the leaders of MP groups and factions. Tomorrow, the Supreme Council will be working on committees to prepare questions that have been discussed today. Including the question of illustration is very interesting, you know, the question of sanctions and so on, about second reading and in general, so that we can consider and accept a lot of questions. Some questions need to be prepared for the first reading, as a matter of illustration, and so forth. Other issues that mattered to the national deputies, including those that were currently being discussed at the evening session, were suggested to support them. So, honourable colleagues, tomorrow Parliament is working on committees, preparing a meeting that will take place on Thursday. And you and I will continue our work on Thursday at 10 a.m. Please, dear fellows. I'm announcing. I'm sorry, I'm not closing the meeting. There's a statement. Where's my application? From the application. I can't help but announce it. Dear colleagues, until the end of the meeting. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I report the departure of the national deputy Bandurov Vladimir Volodymyrovich from the Party of the Regions. That's the finale. We're finishing today's session night session. Good-bye.
