ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to take your seats. We're about to begin our work, please sit down, dear colleagues. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sit down and prepare for registration. I'm just looking at how many cards we have in place. Please, we're starting to work now. Please activate the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:03:36]] There were 264 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, I inform you that on 24 March 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the national deputies of Ukraine: Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, Makula Leonid Jaković, Ledovian Olen Volodymyrovna, Greenev Igor Aleksiowicz, Cubatenka Alexander Mikolaiovich, Kolganov Olen Valerijovna, elected on 28 October 2012 in the state-wide multi-mandated constituency constituency elected on 28 October 2012 in the state-run political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers, and Osaulenka Tarasa Volodymyrovich and Lopachuk Markian Romanovich, elected on 28 October 2012 in the state-wide multi-mandial constituency constituency constituency, included in the electoral list of the political parties of the U.K. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u3	Welcome. People’s deputies, Makov Leonid Jakovic, are invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u5	Welcome. Dear colleagues, before taking an oath on the rostrum, the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Ledovians, Olena Volodymyrna, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u7	Hello. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Alexiyovich, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u8	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u9	Welcome, Igor Alexiyovich. The National Deputy of Ukraine Cubatenko, Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u10	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u11	Hello. Please, before making an oath to the rostrum, invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kolganova Olena Valériyovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u12	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u13	Welcome. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Osaulenko Taras Volodymyrovich, is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u14	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u15	Hello. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lopachak Markian Romanovich, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, let's welcome the newly elected national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce a more faithful announcement. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with the applications submitted personally, I hereby announce the entry into force of the Deputy factions of the National Deputies of the People's Republic of Ukraine: Shevchuk Oleg Borisovich, Makula Leonid Jakovič, Ledovian Olena Volodymyrovna, Griniva Igor Aleksiowiovich, Chubatenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich and Kalganovo Olina Valeriyivni. Dear colleagues, I informed the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I am ready to repeat once again that, unfortunately, the provocation of the Russian Federation's occupying forces directed against our military personnel, against their families, against the citizens who remain loyal to Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, are systematically continuing. It is because of the threat to the lives and health of our military personnel, their families, the National Security and Defence Council that has decided to relocate military units located in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and to evacuate the families of military personnel. The appropriate task of organizing this process is given to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which should provide a decent level for the families of military personnel: the housing where they will be located, the military towns where our parts will be located. In addition, a large number of people are forced to leave their homes and leave the Autonomous Republic of Crimea because their lives and health are real, I emphasize, real dangers. That is why, in order to inform the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people about the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we have invited the Minister of Defence and the ministers of the relevant Cabinet of Ministers to speak out of Parliament. I'm asking for information, I'm inviting Minister of Defense Igor Josephovich Tenyuch to the rostrum. Please. Dear fellow national deputies, I ask everyone to calm down and sit down. It's about the security of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u18	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Acting Minister of Defense, Admiral Tenyuch By the beginning of the aggression of Russian troops on the Crimea peninsula, the total number of military personnel deployed in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol was 18,000,800, of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u19	I ask you to calm down and listen carefully to the Secretary of Defense's report. Please, Igor Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u20	It consisted of 18,000 800 military personnel, including 11,000 naval forces, 2,900 air force, 2,900 military forces, and 4,000 other military forces. More than 6.5,000 military personnel and their families (4300 military personnel, 2,000 200 family members) want to continue serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and be evacuated from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. As a result of the tasks assigned by the President of Ukraine to the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the redeployment of military forces from the temporarily occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in other regions of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence, together with the General Staff, plans are made for the withdrawal of military forces, troops and their families. To this end, an appropriate management headquarters has been created. The other one. Three of the main highways from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea have been expanded and started on the following routes: Armenian-Herson (Statka village), Armenian-New Kahovka (Protoconstaninjka village), Chongar-Novoleksiyevka (Chongar). Third. A collection point is being held in Kiev, military section 0799, Fuchík Street, 7. Four. Expanded places for temporary residence, feeding and rest of military personnel with a total capacity of up to a thousand 500 seats on the funds of the nine military districts of Kiev and Kiev. In the next step, we plan to grow to 2.5 beds. Locations are open: military section 0704 (town of Vasilkov) - up to 700 beds-town; service centre of the structural units of the General Staff - up to 20 beds-town; military section 0222 (city of Kiev) - up to 200 beds-city; National University of Ukraine (city of Kiev, sect. Girls) – 350 beds-city; military unit 0836 (Browers) – up to 300 beds-city; military unit 0799 (Vita Postova) – up to 70 beds-city, military unit 0565 (Gostomel) – up to 60 beds-city and military section 0476 – up to 40 beds-city. Fifth. The possibility of forming railway echelons is being worked out at Feodosius station, Sevastopol station. If not, then go to Bahchisarai, Simferopol, and Eupatoria. Six. Cooperation with local authorities has been organized with regard to the placement and comprehensive provision of members of the families of military personnel, their further employment and social protection. Yesterday in the afternoon, the Chief of General Staff and the Chief of General Staff of the Russian Federation, Gerasimov, made arrangements for the withdrawal of military forces from Crimea Peninsula in full stock of weapons on a state-of-the-art basis. To date, the first Deputy Chief of General Staff has been scheduled to negotiate with the Deputy Minister of Defence of the Russian Federation as general of the Bulgakov army on the mechanism and order of implementation of the agreements reached. To this end, the General Staff will complete the development of an appropriate plan for the redeployment of military forces, which will primarily provide for the withdrawal of special forces and weapons, techniques and forces, PPOs, ships and material and technical equipment. I believe that these measures will allow for the preservation of the core of the naval forces, weapons and military technology to further enhance the security of the state, the cost of property in the Republic of Crimea is estimated at 11 billion, 439,000, the amount of ammunition that needs to be removed from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, 36,000 tons. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to say that despite the very serious losses, despite the problems that we have with our military in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, most of the officers, soldiers and sergeants have fulfilled their military duty and have endured for a month, allowing us to open up military units, to form a defence and defence group for all the borders of our country. During this time, we were able to bring our Armed Forces into full combat readiness. During this time, we were able to start partial mobilization and prepare our Armed Forces to carry out their constitutional duty. So I thank all the officers, sergeants and soldiers who have done their duty in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by protecting their country and allowing us to prepare for resistance to invaders. Dear colleagues, to inform the Supreme Council about the preparation of the country for the admission of families of members of the armed forces and Ukrainian citizens who are forced to leave the temporarily occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Groisman Volodymir Borisovic, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! I would like to inform you that two weeks ago, the Prime Minister of Ukraine's mission was to create and operate a headquarters today that is looking after the movement of members of the armed forces' families into Ukraine. Today, 26,000 places have been created that are reserved in 18 regions of Ukraine, and families of military personnel are ready to be accommodated. Each area identifies the responsible person for coordinating these actions, as well as a quota based on the territorial principle of those sites that are provided for the movement of appropriate power. This coordination will be carried out by each ministry, including the Ministry of Defence. I would also like to inform you that there will be another meeting of the coordination headquarters under the chairmanship of the First Deputy Prime Minister today at 15 hours, where further steps will be taken to move Ukrainian citizens to other areas of Ukraine. Today, all organizational issues, financial issues solved, coordination is being carried out. There's a perfectly calm situation at the call center today. At present, 60 families are located, and we are still ready to respond to the number of people needed to ensure normal movement and normal adaptation. According to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Education has defined all the issues related to the movement and adaptation of these people in the areas I have just mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u23	Thank you. The word is given to the Minister of Social Policy of Denis’s Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! According to the commission of Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenuk of the Ministry of Justice, the Central and Local Executive Authorities have organized the work of the Central and Local Executive Authorities for the social support of citizens and families who leave the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol and are moving to other regions for a temporary stay. In particular, a government hotline has been opened in Crimea, 0800507309. Informing the population about its discovery is done through the media. Also on the railway stations, information is available on the trains of the Crimean route. Once an hour on a loudspeaker and when trains arrive, there is a direct announcement about the ability of citizens to get the telephones of the public authorities at their arrival. This information is available at the train station, the help desks, and the day - to - day receipts. Today, more than three thousand criminals have turned to the contact center. One in six addresses the issue of resettlement and housing. Special hotlines have been created in the general public, and relevant information has been posted on official websites and in the media. Designated structural units and persons responsible for this direction of work and coordination of all active local authorities and public organizations. On March 24, we received and placed 3,000 608 citizens who will temporarily reside on the mainland of Ukraine. Most of it came to the city of Lviv – more than 1,200 people, to Ivano-Frankivsk – more than a thousand people. The police organized the work of the relevant authorities to provide social assistance and payment to citizens for their new location. Information on open hotlines and addresses of social security agencies is available on the websites and through the media. An optimum procedure for the reception of citizens has been put in place, and priority has been given to the consideration and resolution of their problems. The simplified procedure allows retirees to apply to any pension facility. By this time 133 pensioners had been contacted, where they had already received pensions that had not been received in Crimea in March. Those who want to find work go to the centers of employment. Today, MINS is ready to launch, offer 55,000 vacancies in Ukraine, and promote employment through four programmes. It's a collection of work for education, retraining, opening up entrepreneurial activities, participating in paid public works. The employment centers for the time being had 39 people, of whom 5 had already been employed. For the first time, the recipients of insurance payments and those who arrive are approached by social security funds. These include pregnant women with clearly defined relief mechanisms: hospital bills, monthly insurance payments. At present, there are two references to the Social Protection Fund against industrial accidents. These two are satisfied. Families with children are asked to apply to any social protection agency for the payment of state social assistance. The Ministry also prepares for the deployment of Ukrainian citizens from Crimea in geriatric boarding houses and territorial centres, where some 2.5 thousand places are available. At the same time, the most sensitive is the solution to the issue of further social protection of more than 4.8 thousand orphans who remain in Crimea. They are children from family homes, foster families, and residential institutions. To this day, a foster family has moved to the Kyiv region and a family - type home in the Hmelni district. We're waiting for everyone, and we're gonna give you all the help we can get. The Ministry of Education and Health and other specialized ministries have been contacted by the Ministry of Education and Health for the purpose of creating new living conditions for displaced persons. It is the placement of children in preschool, school, and higher education institutions, the organization of health care, the provision of psychological support, and assistance in restoring lost documents. I want to report that there are numerous appeals by citizens and legal institutions to list the support of citizens who come from Crimea. So in the government today, we're going to be dealing with the opening of an account for this money and then with the next distribution among the movers' families. And, honourable Crimeans, my dear countrymen, I would like to tell you that everyone who does not want to stay in temporarily occupied territory in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol will be accommodated, we are all waiting, all will be provided with all the necessary assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the factions are about to come out of the factions. I want to tell you that for hundreds of thousands of our citizens, the occupation of Crimea has turned into a personal tragedy. And I asked the Cabinet of Ministers, the relevant institutions and offices that would help the refugees in Crimea, not bureaucraticly, not formally, but sincerely, to address this problem. It's pain, pain all over Ukraine. And what I'm saying is, my respectable colleagues, that our military and citizens, who are forced to leave their homes today, return to their homeland, return to their homes. And that will be, and we'll be waiting for it not so long. This is going to happen, I'm sure, in the near future. Crime was, is, and will be Ukrainian land. Dear colleagues, I would like to give the floor to Igor Josephovich Tenyuhu, Acting Minister of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to turn to you and provide you with all the information you need to be clearly informed about what's been going on since the first days and why I've come to this rostrum. First. As soon as I was appointed to serve as Secretary of Defense, with the beginning of the aggression that had already taken place in the blocking phase, at my suggestion, I was given a decision to immediately put the Armed Forces on standby, which was more complete. Immediately after the deployment of the Armed Forces for the purpose of their actual status and the possibility of resisting some aggression, I was asked to mobilize. After that, a number of measures were also taken by the Ministry of Defence. Since the first days, it has been clearly and specifically stated that cleaning up the Armed Forces and first of all cleaning the central apparatus, the General Staff is a requirement of time and a requirement for those problems that have matured in the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff. So the latest actions and the latest statements in the press about so-called non-commanding are not true. Because immediately, when I entered the office, I was ordered to do so, although this is primarily the prerogative of the Chief of General Staff, as Chief of Staff, to use weapons under the statutes, and on March 3 there are documents. The following command was issued, after the flag was killed when a section of Simferopol was seized, a reorder was issued for the use of weapons. Therefore, realizing that some may not like what I do as a minister of defense, as well as the misunderstandings about those proposed from day one, and to this day, about the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I have never held my place, nor am I going to hold back. And that's why in this situation, if there's a second vision of what's happening and there's a second candidate, and I don't deny it. That is why I, in charge of the Defense Minister, resign Admiral Tenjuch. It's an honor! [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine! And we will win!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u27	Thank you, Igor Josephovich. Dear colleagues, can we now consider this question? Please be seated in your workplace. According to the application for resignation, the Supreme Council is ordered to release Igor Josephovich Tenyuch from the duties of Ukraine’s defence minister. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. To relieve Tenjuj Igor Josephovich of his duties as Ukrainian defence minister according to the application. Dear colleagues, can we put this to a vote? Please, Your Honor, once again, may I ask a question to the vote? After the vote, we'll hold consultations. Please, I'm asking you a question for a vote. Please vote. [[10:36:57]] For 197 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. I was approached by the strike faction to consult on this issue. I think I'll be ready to hold consultations for 15-20 minutes after speaking to the people's deputies from factions and MPs. Is there no objection? There's no objection. I'd like the national deputies to work in the hall, make the right decisions. I would ask the honourable colleagues to be responsible for all my positions, speeches, and votes. Dear colleagues, I'm now in line with the tradition of the Supreme Council on Tuesday, and I'd like to ask you to sign up for factions and MPs for the factions. Please sign up. Please, please, from the "Freedom" faction of the Cherniaks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u29	Please, Olega Pulliboka on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u30	Glory to Ukraine! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable Society, Brothers and Sisters of Ukraine! I would like to remind all of us, from what did the Dignity Revolution begin, why did the Ukrainians go out to protest against this authority? And what tasks did we all face together, those united against the Yanukovic regime? We set out three of the most important tasks before taking the responsibility to call people on the street and to understand what we are going to do. The first tasks that Fatherland, Freedom, Strike, and other political forces, and social organizations that united into one whole, were to overthrow the regime. And it was done. The second task we've set is to eliminate the effects of the Janukovich regime, not to allow in any case a rematch of dictatorship and to start real radical changes for the better. After carrying out the first task, we need to understand that other tasks have not yet been accomplished. And today we live in conditions where we have opposition on two fronts: the outer front, the visible enemy, the invader, Russia, the Kremlin, the toll regime. How long Freedom has been saying that you can't talk to Russia like Ukraine talked about, that you should be prepared to fight, you should not have allowed the agency in power. But unfortunately, that's when Freedom's voice didn't listen. We have an internal enemy, and the government mechanism is still actively working for Russia. What to say is that Ucroborprom has been ordering Russia so far, and it's likely to use those orders in the war against Ukraine. We have no illustration, we still have the agency in power, we have a critical situation. Because opponents of the political Party of the Regions, which has so far not washed away from the blood of people who have come out of the street, continue to lead a destructive policy. Notice, every time what the Party of the Regions says, the Kremlin says a few days later. A party of regions today are talking about the things Putin claims today. What do they want, and we've talked about it the same way and warned us about what motivation, what is Russia's purpose today? They're not only interested in Crimea, they need federalization, they need a breakup in Ukraine. They need a second state language -- Russian -- they need to keep their armies here permanently, they need rebirth, and the rest -- here in the Parliament of the so-called 'wide' -- they are the ones who insist today that the members of the Party of Regions enter the new leadership of the Ukrainian state, into the new government. They need dual citizenship, they need to keep Ukraine under their geopolitical, economic, and other influences. Back in March 2005, as Ukraine's national deputy, on behalf of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, I registered the Illustration Act and demanded the release of lists of KGB agents of the USSR who were or are in state offices in Ukraine. And today it's an up-to-date issue, today the lists of Moscow's government agencies and the military as well as the power structures should be public and well-known. And I want to talk to the majority today, to the representatives of our coalition, dear brothers, and I want to remind you about these tasks, and I want to remind you that over a year and a half, the Party of Regions has done everything they can to split us up with you, but they have failed. You and I were together, and you and I were cemented, and that's what helped us get people out of the street and win the Dignity Revolution. But I also want to point out that they're still working on the same scenario to break us apart. And if they split us apart, then there will be no radical change, then they want to do it to go back to power to organize a rematch. Be vigilant, do not give in to these provocations: Presidential elections, careers and so forth — this is, excuse me, not today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u31	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u32	This, society, is not the main thing today. The main thing is to stick to the only line of Ukrainian, patriotic line and bring the beginning of the case to victory, to the victory that we've discussed with you, going side by side in the struggle. Do not forget those three months of fighting together. Forget your ambitions today and let's stay together with that cement, then we'll win and then the Ukrainian society will appreciate that step. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u33	The word is from the faction "Economic Development" of Anatoly Kinacha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u34	Honorable national MPs, just our endurance, our consolidation, our systematic, highly professional work, based on the support of society, gives Ukraine a chance to overcome risks, threats to national security and to defend its statehood and territorial integrity. What matters most is that we can now express words of great sincere gratitude, courage, loyalty to Ukraine to our military personnel in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The most important thing is that the decision of the National Security Council and the relocation defences are properly organized. We need, together with the government, to approve a package of measures, both in support and in social protection. Support for the families of military personnel It has the most profound meaning of defining this feat, and at the level of the state, starting with the status of participants in hostilities, we are confident that it has enormous significance for the strengthening and the moral-psychological state, the patriotism of both the Armed Forces and our society as a whole. Ukraine has confirmed to the world that it is able to defend its national interests by peaceful legal means. It's very principled. That the occupation by Russia of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is threatening all the world's societies, the entire world civilization. And when one of the guarantor states, according to the Budapest Memorandum -- the Russian Federation -- does not fulfil its obligations, it poses a threat to the uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons on Earth. And today and in meetings as the Great Seven, we are sure, on March 27, at the General Assembly of the United Nations, this will be discussed worldwide, and this will be the next stage of the consolidation and support of Ukraine’s global partnership and protection with us in territorial integrity. It's very important -- and the integration of Economic Development in this is focusing our attention -- so that the entire territory of Ukraine is governed by the rule of law, the rule of law, the protection of life, security, the health of our citizens, regardless of their political preferences. We need to take under strict parliamentary control the implementation of the National Guard Act, in strict terms to ensure the necessary staffing, as a very important component of the protection of the constitutional system, the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. And these results will depend on the attitude of Ukraine in the world, which should be seen as a democratic state that is developing on modern standards of the rule of law and the protection of citizens' rights. It is vital that we do not forget the realities of life in these crisis and risk situations. Today, there is a situation that poses a serious threat to socio-economic development. We're losing the market for post-radian space, in the east, a huge number of enterprises in the south depend directly on the markets of Russia and the Customs Union. The government can't waste time, the necessary clear programs, enhanced internal market activity, the modernization of the economy, the loading of enterprises, especially the transport machinery, energy, aviation, and so on. And it is clear that we are working to adapt our economy to the conditions of free trade in modern European standards. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should already – and we hope that it will be in the near future – to make a package of complex software decisions, starting with budget balance. Once again, we insist not only on focusing on fiscal measures but also on efforts such as deposit taxation, drug value added taxes, and so forth. There is a need to balance both fiscal measures and incentives to develop business activity, support small business, and improve investment climate. And that's the only way to be a competitive state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, from the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Hanna Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u36	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine is in a state of war, and we should act accordingly as people do in the most difficult situations: in concert, decisive, and constructive. This means that this room should now consider laws that would help to protect Ukraine’s compatriotship. Above all, we need to find a link that can unite people in the West, the East, the North, and the South. Someone says it could be a language, someone says it's a language. I'm afraid it won't work out like a famous poet: speechless people protect language and tongueless people. I think so. Some say it could be a federalization. I don't think ordinary people really know what that word means. And if you ask people what they want in the West and in the East and in the North and in the South, that's two things: all people want peace, and all people want to work with normal wages and guarantee the safety of their children and children. And that, if you want, today could be a Ukrainian idea, a new Ukrainian idea. Let it not be beautifully spelled out in such beautiful words as polytechnologists would, but it is a very real Ukrainian idea. And those politicians who are calling on TV screens to fight. I'll say no, we'll make peace. For every war, however long it may be, will come to an end. Therefore, since those who want to fight and shoot at nuclear weapons, which we do not have, by the way, have much, I would like to gather them together in the country and here in Parliament and in government and in civil society, and those who want to make peace, let them be united by someone who is strong in authority, calm and balanced and will lead them to peace. It doesn't matter what faction or political power it's going to be, it's going to be followed by all the people who don't want to fight, they want to make peace, and they want to work in peace. Together, we will be able, by this force of peace, to develop a plan of action in Ukraine that will allow today to calm the situation that will allow those things in the economy to be done, which will make it very necessary to protect the military, which is unknown why without protection, without decisive action, remain in the occupied territory. And if we're talking about the first step of such a peacekeeping force, whether you like it or not, it could be a common Ukrainian-Russian round table. You know, whenever the state got into a very difficult situation, the dialogue always led us to some kind of a line. So we need to invite authoritative, progressive democratic leaders of culture, science, politics from Russia, and here in Ukraine, in Kiev, to start an interstate round table of peace. This will be the first step towards what we need to achieve, and this will be the place where we can come up with a peace settlement plan in the Central-Eastern Europe region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u37	Please, from the parliamentary group "Northern European Ukraine" Olesia Donnyj.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u38	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I was eager to present positive information today. Because in the conditions of aggression that are now coming from the Russian Federation, it's hard for the country, it's hard for the authorities to take on this burden to defend the country, it's hard for the nations, it's hard for all of us. So we need positive emotions, positive information. I wanted to speak here with information about what I had seen in the last days as a nation united around the help of their armies, their armies. From the group, I was asked to report that several deputies with economic structures cooperated with them and counted several million for the needs of the military -- both Martinjak and Jeremeyev and Labazük. On the other hand, who does not have such funds, he went directly to the military as Yuri Shapovalov went to Crimea to the Arab Arrow, to Chongar, and to deliver ammunition. I was in the White Church two days ago in an art division, and we just bought radios and brought them. Two days ago, I was in the village of Velika Kamyanka, and the Great Stone lost two people in Midan, more than 80 of whom were killed. They collected, like in Cologne, 3 bracelets, 5 by 10, they're not very rich for night vision instruments for one of the military parts of Kirovgrad. This is how the nation is now helping its army, its Armed Forces. And that's what I wanted to tell you. But it would be very sad if all this help to the army would be like water in the sand, if there was continued and inaction on the part of the Ministry of Defense. And what I saw in Crimea in the military, I can say that today’s acting defence minister is an incompetent person. And he must be retired. But what we're trying to do here right now is play. He's got a lot of trust now without getting 226 votes for his resignation? Gentlemen, well, it's not a situation where you have to show off these games. A situation in which the executive vertical of power needs to be strengthened. A situation is needed when professionals come to the Ministry of Defence, not a quota principle. You know, you just stole Igor Voronchenk's Major General a few days ago. I saw him downtown in Simferopol. He's a man of loyalty, he's a patriotic man, and he told me on March 8th about the need for corridors for the withdrawal of troops. On March 8, he understood. And the Ministry of Defense didn't understand that until after the U.N.R.O. decision, did it? So we have a problem with the senior management of the Ministry of Defense. And, gentlemen, we have a problem with the force block at all. If participants in Maydan are now in Kiev, there are no known individuals in Kiev, it is obvious that this is the case of diversified groups. Where are our forces, and where is their protection? If someone lacks the ability of the executive authority today, it is more honest to resign. On the part of us as deputies, as parliamentarians, we need to strengthen parliamentary control. I don't understand why the intellectual potential of the Supreme Council is not being used. If the executive vertical of power cannot now exercise its authority on its own, let us create additional parliamentary commissions to help the executive. Once again, now is not the time to play, because we are facing a much stronger enemy, a Russian aggressor. And now we need to strengthen the executive vertical. Once again, who cannot succeed must be retired, and the Supreme Council must strengthen the means of parliamentary control over the executive power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u39	From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I think if we are going to open the key legislative acts that govern the military doctrine today, which are our strategic partners, many will be surprised after the recent events of the last few months, because unfortunately today our strategic partner is the one who occupied part of our territory. So the first thing we need to start with is to review a number of legislative acts that are currently in force, which determine the country's military, political doctrine. And only then do we have the opportunity to move on, because without that, we can't actually determine even the strategy of our behavior. Clearly, there are a number of key issues that need to be addressed urgently today. The first question is the question of the occupied territory. And the fact that the working group on the committee identified yesterday the key most painful points that have already been faced by tens of thousands of our citizens living in the occupied territory; the fact that the committee has brought together representatives of various social organizations who have been forced to leave the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is evidence that such a bill must be approved as soon as possible. But there are a number of points that even today we can't imagine how this will all be settled by a number of ministries and departments. Because any question, starting with the crossing of the conditional border, completing entrepreneurial activity in this territory, protecting the rights of the property of our citizens, of the state, of corporate rights. All of this should be regulated not only by law but also by a number of legal acts. Getting our troops out of occupied territory, getting them out and giving them guarantees of being on the mainland -- all of this needs urgent settlement, including in the law-enforcement field. Therefore, the list of these issues is urgent, and what we have put into the agenda is very important. Secondly, we have a question of restoring confidence in the judicial authorities. A sixth bill that regulates this issue has been registered today. In my opinion, we should go to the best possible choice right now. The option that will allow those controlling authorities that, during the Yanukovich regime, actually put the judicial corps in condition that any legal decision would lead to a judge being released from office, and any illegal decision actually being under the protection of these organs, in my opinion, should be reviewed immediately. And that's why finding compromise in this bill, which should be approved this sessional week, is very and very necessary. Thirdly, these are our international initiatives. Today there are a number of legislative initiatives that regulate the order of our stay in the Commonwealth of Independent States, the change in our military and foreign policy doctrine, the question of turning to international institutions, including the United Nations Organization, the United Nations Security Council, directly to the organs that regulate today’s security in the world and in European space. That is why the list of these legislative initiatives for today has virtually all found their reflection. But for example, Bills 0074 and 4495, which actually reflect the realities of our existence today, have not entered the agenda. And I would like to, if possible, if they are considered by the relevant committees, we would have had the opportunity to include them further in the agenda. Moreover, our faction today insists on one issue that we seem to have forgotten in connection with the terrible events in Crimea and military aggression is the question of the agricultural sector. Today, the Crimean Peninsula, the whole South of Ukraine, has actually begun and continues, and some districts have already completed the sowing company. Those regulatory rules that we put in place in a number of laws allow us to adopt decisions that will allow the agrarian sector to feel completely different today in these conditions that apply to both fiscal policies and everything else. That is why a list of questions needs immediate solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u41	Thank you. Who's going to perform from the strike faction? Vitaly Cliché. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the Russian invasion is ongoing, and our country’s reaction remains free and weak, a strategic decision is adopted in a culinary manner, and they are unfortunately misunderstood by society. Crime is occupied with no resistance, and I want your attention, and every one of you knows it. The boys stood there, protected the ship and parts, waiting for clear orders. In fact, the army was thrown into judgment. Only after we lost half the military, who are now in captivity, who have failed to withstand the pressure and switched sides with the Russians last night, but only last night, was signed a decree on the redeployment of troops from the Crimea. If, as is assured, it was a plan for the military to stand to achieve the objective of an army on the continent, why not take out the families of the military now? Because they pushed, threatened, and blackmailed the fighters, we know that. We must now recognize these military actors as involved in hostilities, a bill that has long been drafted. And they also have to provide and, by no means, not set up units that are about to come out of Crimea. The Commander-in-Chief should immediately take steps to increase the security and protection of the continental part of our country. We're saying that the West should help us. But above all, we must help ourselves and not wait for help. Our partners do not see Ukraine’s will to act decisively and defend our interests. Waiting for someone to come and save us is strange. Dear colleagues! The provocations in the East and the South are ongoing. Finally, decisions to close borders from gastrolers, to end hate propaganda through Russian media and television channels must be implemented. And to hold officials responsible for the implementation of these decisions. In order to end separatism, it takes decisive action on the ground. Unfortunately, people don't see it. They demand openness, clarity of decision-making, so an extended PNB meeting in the actual format of the Security Council to operational headquarters should be a rule, not after public discussions as yesterday, but as necessary and regularly as necessary, it may be necessary every day. And the last. According to the findings of the last month, it is possible to draw the first human resources conclusions. I think the defense minister should have a professional who has experience in crisis situations and a consultation on that. That's what we need to start. We realize that actions are also not effective. And for today, if this continues, we can ask questions about the election of the new Head of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] In addition, the strike party addresses all candidates to the presidents with a recommendation, in the campaign, to refrain from any kind of propaganda bubble. There is only one question on the agenda: the security of the country and the way out of this deep crisis that we are in. And we all need to understand the responsibility that lies with each one of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, there's a three-minute offer for two non-faction representatives. National member of the staff, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I usually never spoke from this rostrum and the second call and I used to solve all the questions in the towers before the vote by talking to my colleagues. But today, the situation is out of control and we're looking for enemies outside, we're looking for enemies among the Party of Regions, and today the enemies are in the ruling coalition. Of course, the revolution won, of course, the people who won the Maidan, the people who spoke, the people who didn't break up when the deal was signed for three, the people who said they wouldn't let Janukovich. By December of the month, and who had achieved that Yanukovich had fled the state. So I don't think the MPs sitting in the hall today. They have the right to make all the decisions and to conclude what and where to move. We are all elected by the people here, the shareholders of our nation are the Ukrainian people, and we are only the body that should represent their interests. What's happening in Crimea today, we're all talking about what Russia took from us. And I'll say otherwise, we gave Russia the Crimea, we gave Russia the Crimea by our unprofessional actions, we gave Russia the Crimea by our indecisive actions, when this insolvent betrayal began, we had a lot more military in Crimea than green men or Russian troops. Why, at that time, did the minister of defense not give the task of carrying out his constitutional duty and opening fire and protecting all authorities of the state? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u45	I'll ask you not to interrupt me. I speak English, and I don't bother anyone. You know, there's a saying there's a hat on the thief, so let's stop interrupting each other. [[B in m in s a l in]] I demand creation. not just resigning, but creating a commission of inquiry on the actions of the minister of defense, and how did it happen that our military forces today were forced to leave Crimea, deceived, unarmed. I'm asking you to figure this out, to create a commission of inquiry. I'm gonna have to figure this out. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Deputy of Liberty, I have a lot to tell you in return, but now is not the time. I want to ask. Yesterday, when the sale decided to shut down Crimea from electricity, did he himself make this provocative decision, or did someone give him an order? In Crimea, 800,000 Ukrainian citizens who did not take part in a referendum who were entitled to receive electricity, who could be in hospitals that could perform other duties, were shut down. I want to say that this is done to provoke further actions by the Russian Federation to capture the South Ukrainian AES in Kahovac to provide the Crimea with electricity. I'm asking you to call Minister Sold and see if he made that decision or if anyone told him. About Freedom. I want to say to Deputy Blawajk that your assistants are going to enterprises, state and private, and they're demanding money, and we don't know which revolution. If you want me to show you, I'll give you all the data. I want to thank the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u46	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u47	I want to thank Prime Minister Yatsenyuk today, who I think is very worthy of his duties. And I'd like to ask Mr. Yatsenuk and Mr. Turkinov: we need to move away from the quota representation in ministries and areas. If you trust the Prime Minister to run the country, if you trust him to reconcile the Cabinet of Ministers, stop insisting that representatives of each faction or group be present in the ministries. The Prime Minister is in charge, the Prime Minister is under the responsibility of the ministers. This quota principle has led to the fact that there are no executives, prosecutors, or Home Offices in Western Ukraine today, because everything is shared. Please don't look for an enemy from the outside. The enemy is here. We have to stop, get together, and go to victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, before giving the floor to the speaker from the nonfractional (I will give the reply necessarily), honourable colleagues, I would like to say a few words in connection with the final speech. There is much to blame for the Ministry of Defence, especially the duty of minister, but they have done their duty honestly. That's the first one. Second, it was provocation, military provocation, military aggression and direct military conflict that the Russian Federation expected in Crimea. In order for the civilian population that you're burning here to die, you're saying that electricity is not enough for hundreds of thousands to die and that there is a reason for bringing troops into the continental territory of Ukraine. This is not the plan, thanks to the stamina and the Ministry of Defense, and the military parts that were there. And so I ask you, dear colleagues, do not speculate on the situation in the country today in Crimea! Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! For the past three days, I have been visiting the military parts of the border, customs on our border with Russia in the Chernigiv region. He returned from our border tonight. Hersonsky, Chongar, the so-called Republic of Crimea in Russia, which is our territory. The first thing I want to report to you is from my meetings with the military, the border guards, the other military personnel. The fighting spirit of our military personnel is high, people are ready to defend Ukraine, people are willing to lay down their lives. I want Parliament to thank the border guards for protecting our country. [[Applause]] Thank you, regionals! They're protecting you too! Don't feel bad about the applause that you're making. People risk their lives on the front lines. [[Applause]] I want to assure the Ukrainian army. I want to assure the Ukrainian people. All that is up to us will be done to make the army feel the support of the state feel the support of the Ukrainian people. I recommend that all the people's deputies from the Supreme Council Hall go to the military, drive to the front, drive where our young boys 18-20-year-olds on Chongari are lying in the trenches and looking at them through a sniper's fly. And then you'll understand what kind of war we're in today. There's our kids. And I call on all the national MPs who have children over 20 to send them to the front, to send them to the army. Get out of the Oxfords, get out of the Harvards -- and the front, where the peasants' children are, where the workers' children are, where the children are going to protect themselves today. I saw nine-year-old boys in my hometown yesterday who came up and said, "Give us the guns, we'll protect our country." These are descendants of the partisans of Montenegro. Under no circumstances will the Ukrainian people be defeated when children are ready to protect their homeland. At the same time, however, the Ukrainian army, the military, said that they had been abandoned, had been forgotten by the authorities. And that's why I think we need to resolve matters immediately with regard to the leadership of the Ministry of Defense. And when hit doesn't vote for Tenjuk's resignation, they're obviously in charge of the Tenjuk Defense Minister's actions. I think Tenuha needs to be exchanged for Mamchure, who is being held captive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u50	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u51	Our heroes: Julius Mamchura, head of the battalion of the Dmitry Delettitsky Marine Corps, his deputy major Rostislav, many others, is being held captive, held hostage. And so I demand that we take immediate action to get our heroes released. And Mamchura is the Secretary of Defense instead of Tenjuh. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I've been approached by a faction of the strike party, and she's asking the factions and coalition leaders to consult. I'm calling a 15-minute recess to hold consultations with coalition factions. We're going to start our work, I'm asking you not to disperse the national deputies, at exactly 11 o'clock in the morning, 35 minutes. Please, in 11:35 minutes, we're taking a break. I ask the leaders of the factions of the coalition and the MPs to enter the Cabinet of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We continue to work in Parliament. Please invite the secretariat of the Supreme Council to invite all national MPs from the towers. Faction leaders are also requested to invite all their national deputies into the hall. We will now make responsible important decisions with you. I promised a replica of what was called "Freedom" to the Freedom representatives. Please, who, Oleg Jaroslavovich, will be the replicator? Please turn on the microphone of the Blavajkov People's Deputy. I'm asking all the deputies to sit in their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u54	Dear Head, honourable deputies! Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, here is one deputy, who is, everyone knows, a carcass from Volin region, who sat down when there was a revolution, when there was a tragedy in Ukraine, in warm places, now came. And unfortunately, we have in Ukraine the truth that the revolution is made by fans and used or wanted to use worlds like you, Mr. MPs. You sat there, you warmed up, you walked away, you ate one. Look at yourself in the mirror. Where have you been for three months? Why haven't you ever been to your district in Volinsky? Why weren't you at Maidan? And now you're going and you're saying, you're a hero, you're teaching us what we should do next. About my assistants. My assistant, Dmitri Cranjavsky, was killed in Donetsk by aunts you may have supported. All of this will be proved in our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u55	Let me finish. Did you finish the speech? Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, before we move on to personnel issues, we need to include many important draft laws, the Supreme Council's rulings in the agenda of the day session, with some of them, and they are very important, they relate to the issues of the country's security, they relate to issues relating to the reform of the judicial system of power, economic reform, including anti-crisis laws. We need to put them in the order of the day session. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is this very list of laws that has been declared either by factions, or by the heads of our profiling committees. So, honourable colleagues, I'd like to, yes, listen to this list of laws so that we can make decisions about including it in the agenda. I'm noting that there are laws here that have been passed by the coalition, and there are laws that are also passed by the opposition. I call these projects. 4524, 4524-1 is a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for crimes against the fundamentals of national security of Ukraine). Draft Decree on overcoming the effects of selective justice (4367), aimed at political persecution by officials of the government authorities in Ukraine. Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (project 4398 number) (to increase the responsibility for illegal handling of weapons, ammunition or explosives). 4525 is a draft law amending the Criminal Enforcement Code (adapting the legal status of the condemned to European standards). 4526 — Draft Amnesty Law in 2014 (draft law of the People’s Deputy Kožemyakin), issued on 25.03. The draft Law 4520 is a decree to refer the Supreme Council to the UN General Assembly and the Security Council of the United Nations. 4521 is a draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Project 4522 is about the appeal of the Supreme Council to the Council of Europe. 4491 is a draft law amending certain legislative acts to increase the financial and financial security of the State. The draft decree on additional measures to strengthen Ukraine’s security in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation. Draft Laws: 4267, 4267-1. 4267-2. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to grant status to persons who have suffered during peaceful acts of protest. Dear colleagues, 4509. Draft Decree on the recognition of persons who participated in the defence of Ukraine during the fighting period in 2014. Project 4492. Act amending the Code of Taxes. 4527. Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine (for the application of transfer pricing standards). 4434. Draft Law on the Restoration of Rights of the Indigenous People of Ukraine Forced into Crimea. 4501. Draft Law on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine 4510. Draft Decision on a program of assistance for those who have experienced political repression in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol 4494. Draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition. 4500, 4500-1 and 4500-2. Draft laws amending some Ukrainian legislation on guarantees for workers at the time of responsibilities for mobilization. I'm paying attention to this law, it's very important, and it needs it, and our Armed Forces, and the National Guard, it's about calling for people who can go and protect the country, have wages and keep a place of permanent work. Dear colleagues, I would ask that this very law should be considered by the committee after our inclusion, I hope, in the order of the day tomorrow at its meeting and on Thursday, that we vote on it. Next, dear colleagues. 4286. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 122 of the Earth Code on clarifying the powers of the central executive body. 4446. Draft Decision implementing paragraph 9 of Ukraine's decision of the European Court of Human Rights in Alexander Volkov v. Ukraine Dear colleagues, I called those projects, which were called factions' leaders, MPs' groups, as well as the heads of profile committees at the Conciliation Council. Colleagues, I'm only asking that we don't increase this list right now. Please. Because we need to vote them, friends, not just include them. Come on, Zarubinsky's national deputy, he's always making such valuable proposals. Please, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I actually only have one question, but it's fundamental. Those bills should be included in the agenda, all of them, and I agree with you that if anyone adds now, there will be such a colossal situation. But I have a very big request for both you and the government. There are bills here that need serious extra expenses from the budget, you know, social expenditure, aid, a variety of things, and it's not clear how many people are going to fall into this. I would very much like to ask that when these issues are being considered, not in the agenda, but when on the first reading, and I think that some will be considered today, so that it is necessarily valid, I would stress, a full representative of the government, who would say that the government agrees that these expenses will be made out of the budget. Do you understand what this is about?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u57	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u58	It is a principled position for the government to assume responsibility for the implementation of these social expenses that are offered by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I support the proposal made by the distinguished Zarubinsky People's Deputy. But I'm drawing your attention, let's vote on including these projects in the agenda. After that, respectable colleagues will, of course, before receiving them in the first reading, each of them will draw the conclusions of the government when these laws require additional funding or changes to the budget. Dear colleagues, please, come on, we will not include laws from the voice, there is a Conciliation Council for this, we work with you through committees, through appropriate factions. I ask you to place the inclusion in the agenda of our session of draft laws and regulations that I have announced. Please vote. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:07:01]] For 219 Dear colleagues! I can't understand what the observations are before this list of laws? Please show the factions, please. Region Party 12, Parentage Party 67, Impact 21, Economic Development 29, 26, 30, UK Company 0, non-fractional 34. Dear colleagues! I'm asking the factions to sign up, please, or let's not keep asking questions one minute from the factions. From each faction one minute, please. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u60	Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u61	Turn on the microphone of Zuravsky, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! There was a serious criticism of the previous authority that voted in a package of violations of the Rules. You know, the criticism was to some extent fair, we're not going to make that mistake again, it's the Rules of Procedure Act we have to. Everything works according to the law. So we vote separately for every draft law, we can't vote in a packet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Believe me, with a package, I suggested that I vote in order to support the opposition and that there be laws and representatives of the opposition in the package, so that there are no complaints that most do not support the inclusion of their laws. When we put each other on a stand-alone basis, there is virtually no chance of passing these laws, so I ask you to support this exact voting format. Please, National Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! I ask you very much to support the demands of civil society and to include in the agenda the daily bills: 2207, 3678, 3378, 0947. This is very important for us to start the reforms that society requires of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u65	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head! The opposition begs you that the next time you want to support us, please ask: Do we want your support? That one. The other one. There is a Rules and we ask that Parliament work strictly under the Rules. And one more thing. We're still asking you to bring the President's impeachment bill into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u67	Please, as far as I know, this law is included in the agenda of the day session and does not require further inclusion. I ask the secretariat to clarify this information. Please, Black Faction Strike. People's Deputy Sold. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u68	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u69	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, regarding the proposed bills and draft decisions. The project (4520) and (4521) are projects that are completely compatible with the Tarasyuk ruling previously introduced. We ask, if we don't replace it, at the very least, the Tarasyuk project (number 4495) is the first. The other one. The list we were given is a bill (4267-2). Although it is written by number as an alternative, the bill’s card provides that it is a major project. So I ask you to separate it separately so that it can be looked at separately from other projects with this number. And separately the third. I very much ask you, Alexander Valentine's Day, to put the session in order as a minimum, but it is very important for this week's bill (4238). It's a project to make a distinction between the utilitarian congregation and the three factions: "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u70	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u71	The three, once opposition, are now factions that form a coalition. For the time being, six customs have been blocked by West Ukraine’s entrepreneurs, who, unlike this utilization congregation, have fought. So I'm asking you very much to put it into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u72	Please, Olesia Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u73	In the morning, the Group "Supreme European Ukraine" looked closely at the agenda. We have a number of important points to make in the four bills. We wouldn't want to vote for them. But if the will of the entire Supreme Council, we support leadership, and we turn to all the deputies to be more disciplined, including we call on our deputies: now come in from the towers and vote for the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u74	Thanks for the offer. Please, Freedom faction, People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u75	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, the honourable present, the honourable absent! Because those people who don't vote in the room call them present, well, the tongue probably doesn't come back. Let's finally make decisions that should benefit the state. And let's not hide behind the formality and hide behind the formality of not wanting to support the country at any particular difficult moment. There are questions that society requires. If we're now taking the vote on the inclusion, I would like to emphasize, by joining the agenda, we're playing at the hands of our enemies, the inner ones, the outer ones. And so it seems that internal enemies are more interested in breaking down the work of the only actual organ that has taken full responsibility for the country in a difficult time. So let's not play games, let's take a responsible approach to decisions, put them to a vote. And, Alexander Valentinovich, let the country see all its heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm informing National Deputy Herman, impeachment Act 22,220 is included in the agenda of this session. Dear colleagues, taking into account the proposal of Laws 4495, 4238, please, dear colleagues, we speak only with regard to the initiatives of public organizations, we are now considering issues related to the control of tender procedures, and other issues discussed at the Conciliation Council and supported by the National Deputies. Dear colleagues, once again, we can include a thousand laws, but it's not a fact that we can look at them. So I'm asking you to at least include these laws in the order of the day. On the other hand, we will speak to you separately and individually. This is not the last sessional week during this session. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and try to vote again. If we don't get the required number of votes right now, I'm going to put one law into a vote, and then you're going to see what result we're going to get with you in total. Dear colleagues, I ask once again to put to the vote the day-to-day projects that have been broadcast by the Chief of the Supreme Council, as well as the 4495 that Mrs. Prodan spoke about. As for Law 4238, I ask you, we have agreed with you that after the government's expertise, only the government. It's a coalition agreement, you're already in the coalition, the impact faction is there. We're going to draw a conclusion from the government, and we're going to put it right now in terms of inclusion, without any problems or delays. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, well, there's a lot of people who want to include extra laws. 4432 is the law under consideration. Is that what I'm saying? Again. All right, 4432, let's also talk. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of including in the agenda the projects that we have just announced with you (for the transcript). Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please make up your mind. [[12:16:19]] For the 220. The factions, please. The factions. Dear colleagues! Please, I'll give you my word. Region Party – 8, 71 – Fatherland, Hit 27, Economic Development – 26, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 30, Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. Dear colleagues! There's no desire to include in the order of the day laws, we're taking this issue out of consideration at all. Please turn on the microphones. Sign up for this: two for, two for, two against. Please. While the recording goes on, I announce, here I see one statement, there were two, show me the second statement. From another application. People's deputies Lopeczak and Osaulenko are filing an application to join the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, which we welcome. Please. Please, dear colleagues, who have signed up for the performance. Please, the National MP of Sikor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u78	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u79	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I understand that some MPs don't vote because we're afraid that we're already at a meeting tonight to consider those bills. In fact, some of them have really not passed through the committee, and we can't look at them until there's a committee decision. This needs to be made clear to the people’s deputies. And there are some warnings about individual bills. Maybe, Alexander Valentinovich, we won't expand this circle. But what prevents us from narrowing it down to a few bills, if this is a subject for discussion? So I would suggest, for example, that we clarify our position and our opposition to the present one. They have proposed several bills that we include in their insistence, and they do not vote for it. Let them tell the public what the problem is. They don't want these bills to be included, do they? If they want, we wait for their votes and we vote on that question right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we want to go back to two points, and we want to vote in favour of today's agenda, first of all, with Order No. 4495, because it's a literate decision from the point of view of our government's assignments, how to act as a pressurizer on the Russian Federation. It's nonsense when the world is called upon to impose sanctions, and we're not doing anything in this direction. And that's why it's technically the right decision made by one of the best Ukrainian diplomats, Boris Tarasyuk. I'm asking you to hear me and put her in the agenda. And the second. Dear colleagues, 6 customs officers are now locked in there, demanding millions of people to repeal the Law on the Disposal Assembly. And such a bill under number 4238 has been developed, and these are the people who are involved in the change in Ukraine, we need to hear it if we are so many today, including opposition, and the Party of Regions is talking about the need to hear people. So, three were the drafts of "KNOCK" and "Paternity" and "Freedom" about cancelling. What are we now in power not to put him on the agenda? Please put in this bill today, we demand, 4238 on the abolition of the utilization congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, Freedom, Peace, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u83	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please pass the word to Oleg Jaroslavovich Tajnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u84	Please, Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u85	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we discussed these bills on the Conciliation Council, and now we have to vote in favour of putting them into the agenda. This does not mean that we will consider them today. We will still have time, perhaps tomorrow, perhaps even after tomorrow, to consider those bills that have not yet been passed on to the committees through committees to carry them out in order to fully comply with the law-abiding procedure for the adoption of bills. But in the situation that the Ukrainian state is facing today, we simply have no right to delay this process of introducing such bills into action, to solve extremely urgent and important problems of a socio-economic and political nature. So it's a big request to come into the hall to all the deputies who walk in the corridors, to concentrate, to be careful, to vote anyway, not to catch, and to positively approve the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u86	Thank you. Razwadowski, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u87	The Honourable Alexandre Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, me and the National MP Mishchenko and 200 other deputies urgently introduced Bill (No. 0985) and (No. 4281) on the inheritance. That's why I'm asking him to turn it on. And I suggest, Alexander Valentine's Day, today, that we put all the bills that suggest MPs in the agenda and work, continue the day until the end, until we consider all the bills in the session room and break up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u88	Call me the number again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u89	0985 and 4281.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u90	4281.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u91	And to vote on the international organizations that are now in the day - to - day order, in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it, national MP Rudzkowski, and we will. and Labunskaya, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I propose today to include in the agenda the President's impeachment Act (4171). I also propose today to include Decree (4225) on the election of the Supreme Council on October 26. I also propose to include the Constitutional Court's conclusion on the removal of parliamentary immunity. Thus, neither the people of Ukraine nor the presidential candidates will consider us to be a reptilian, because we will make those decisions that will suit people's interests and they will share the idea that the Supreme Council hears people and takes their stand. And of course, we need to work today to solve all the issues in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u94	Please turn on the microphone of the people's representative of Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u95	Alexander Valentinovich, I'm begging you, turn on 4238. Eight customs are locked down. You'll have your head on the phone, Governor of the Zitomir region. In my Berditch alone, two and a half thousand people lost their jobs on January 1. The blockade of the U.S.A. is now under way. Then people go to cover the Kiev-Vinitz route. 4238 – since January of the month. If you say, after the consultations, eight customs officers. Yesterday, there were all the Westerns, today Zitomir joined, and then he will go all the way to Ukraine. I was just on the phone with Žitomirščina, and I invited Mr. Kizina to call you and tell you what people wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u96	Thank you. Come on, national MP Dombrovski. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I propose to maintain the order of the day that the Presidium now offers. But with that. I would like to point out that all national MPs are waiting for a package of draft laws to carry out major economic reforms in Ukraine. So we're looking forward to these proposals from the government, and in my opinion, this proposal should be systematic and tabled in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u98	Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I also propose to include in the agenda a bill of 4375, which was designed to improve tax control of transfer pricing. The bill I propose to include with the aim that today, in the agenda, the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill 4527 will be considered. They're very eastern, from a similar point of view, so please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. I call the laws that the people's deputies insisted on, and we try to vote in such a package. In the event that this package does not pass, we are considering the inclusion of laws in the agenda in view of the fact that the Supreme Council has not been identified. And so, I call these laws. 4238 (and project decisions), 4495, 4238, 0985, 4281, 4432, this, national deputy of Labunska, 4375, requesting colleagues from the Party of the Regions. Can we vote for a package like that? We can. Taking into account these suggestions. Sergei. ‘ I’m asking you to vote. I ask, my fellow Members, with these proposals, to include a list of draft laws and regulations, taking into account the additional list that I have just announced. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote and support this decision. Please vote. [[12:27:02]] For 234 Decision taken. We're hard at work, dear colleagues. I beg of you, Your Honor, we haven't decided on a personnel matter in the morning. I would like to remind you that an application has been made for the resignation of Admiral Tenjuh in his role as Secretary of Defense. There was a request from the deputies to hold consultations on this subject. And I'm asking, dear colleagues, to consider this question and support the offer of Igor Josephovich Tenyuch on his resignation. This is draft regulation 4542. Please determine how to vote. Please vote. [[12:28:13]] For 228 Dear colleagues, by factions. Please show me your decision. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We can't leave the Ministry of Defense with you without leadership. I'm making an offer, realizing that the hall is not set up to vote actively today. At the same time, the issue of the security of our country, we cannot, in the circumstances that have arisen when there is a danger of invasion of Ukraine, when Ukraine is occupied, leave the Ministry of Defence without leadership. I want to inform you that we cannot consider a proposal from any political force or faction, or a parliamentary group. We need the Ministry of Defense to work, manage and make decisions today solely by professionals, exclusively by people who are capable of extreme conditions, in situations of danger, in situations of actual military opposition to make the right decisions and take full responsibility for them. That's why, dear colleagues, after consulting with the military, I've informed the political forces of my proposal for election, my appointment as minister. Acting Minister of Defence, Colonel General Koval Mikhal Volodymirovic. He's here in the hall right now. Mikhailo Volodymyrovich Koval has taken his military path from the platoon commander to the colonel general. Please, General, sit down. He's a professional military, he's in command of a battalion of parachutist troops, then a squad of parachutist troops, he's in command of a tank division, he's working at General Headquarters, he's working as chief of headquarters, including internal forces. He's worked for a long time as the First Deputy Head of the State Border Service, and now, today, he's securing and protecting the borders of our borders with you. I also inform you that today I have signed the Order on the appointment of a defence advisor for President Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Once again, I appeal to the opposition, and I ask you to support the decision to appoint high-ranking military officers, not for political or quota reasons, that is, for professional reasons. And I ask now that we hear information from Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! In this fearsome state, the time to lead the Ukrainian army cannot be a person delegated by a political power. At this perilous time, the leadership of the Ukrainian army cannot be politically involved in some political forces. There must be a military person for whom there are only two things: the Ukrainian people and the independent Ukrainian state. Lieutenant General Koval commanded an airlift brigade in Kirov, and it became the best in Ukraine. He was in command of a tank division in Novograd Volinsky, and it became the best in Ukraine. He was the chief of staff of the Eighth Army Corps and he became the best in Ukraine. He arrived for the reinforcement of the foreign armies and, along with the head of the foreign armies, did, indeed, a European and a strong State - border service. He works day and night, he's an energetic, young educated and dependable person. I'm asking you, and I guarantee it will be a personal tragedy for me if he fails and I ask you to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we vote? We can. I ask that everyone be responsible for this issue, regardless of political parties, political sentiments. Today we are talking about the security of our country, the ability of our army to respond to the challenges it faces today. The draft Decision on appointment of Defence Minister Mikhail Volodymirovich Koval is based on the vote. This is draft regulation 4543. I ask the honourable deputies to support this decision. Please vote. [[12:34:55]] For 251 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, by the factions, please, I'd like to announce. The Party of Regions is 16, Fatherland is 72, Vitalia Klicka is 31, Economic Development is 34, Sovereign European Ukraine is 31, Freedom is 31, non-fractional is 36. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to continue working in our order of the day. I would now like to ask Mr. Kowal to come to the rostrum of the Supreme Council and say a few words to the people of Ukraine and to the people's deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u103	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! I understand clearly all the responsibility and the trust you have given on behalf of the people of Ukraine. I'm a military man, I know military affairs, and I love it very much. I love my sister-in-law. I would like to thank Igor Josephovich Tenyuhu, the Admiral, who, in a very difficult time for Ukraine, has done the same tasks as they have relied on him. I have high regard for him. [[Applause]] I believe in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, I believe in our sister Ukraine and the bright future! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. I'd like us to identify now. I'll see how we get the vote. So let's not say that we are now voting to the end, and then we don't have the votes to make decisions, as was the case with the consideration of inclusion in the agenda. So let's just work effectively and responsibly. At the same time, respected colleagues. I listened very carefully in the morning to the speeches of the national MPs, and the representative of the strike faction said they'd be bringing them in. Whether I'm being intimidated by the question of resigning the Chief of the Supreme Council. I want to tell my respectable colleagues that I should not be intimidated or blackmailed. When there's such an offer, I'm ready now. And I want to put to the vote the question of resigning the Chief of the Supreme Council so there will be no more blackmail. You have an offer, bring it in. You don't have an offer, I'll make it for you. Please allow the Supreme Council to decide on this matter, as regards the removal from office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. With respect to the removal from office of the Head of the Supreme Council, please vote against the Supreme Council. Please. Whoever wants to vote, let him vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:38:19]] For two. [[Applause]] We're working on it. Dear colleagues, before taking decisions on the issues under discussion, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to include information on active legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs in the Single State Register. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading. I want to say again, do you want a discussion? I'm ready to open a discussion with you right now. I am ready to open this discussion, Victor Mikhailovich and Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Ready for discussion. You want a discussion? I'll have a discussion with you now, a public discussion. Please. Thank you. Please report to Alexander Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter we have discussed with you. Sadly, there were no people in the hall, and we decided to vote on it. I'll remind you what it's all about. The previous laws made a decision and a short deadline for all entrepreneurs, natural and legal persons who had been created before 2004 to submit their data to the register. Regrettably, not all entrepreneurs met these conditions and included fines. The previous government made this decision and it is faithful, and we accepted it in the first reading that the restrictions on enrollment should be lifted, and the commissions that should have fined those entrepreneurs should have been eliminated. The whole point of the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, do you understand the question? We discussed it with you. I'd like to ask the deputies to take their seats. This is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine to include information on active legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs in the Single State Register. Dear colleagues, there are no votes, so we will not make decisions. Dear colleagues, once again, this law has already been broken because of the absence of votes. There is a proposal, and yet then the Supreme Council for the re-voting included it. There is a proposal to vote again. Do you have any other suggestions for impact? Please turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone. Do you have any suggestions? Dear colleagues, may I put the matter to the vote? I can put it to a vote. Please identify yourself from the question of adoption in the second reading of Law 2484. Vote, Your Honor, please. Please determine how to vote. [[12:41:32]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. Please see how the factions voted. Dear colleagues. In general, we made that decision. We accepted in our second reading and in general, respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, next question, please. This refers to the first reading of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of citizens' housing rights. Project 2659. Please report to the deputy head of the construction committee Saldo Vladimir Vasilovich. Is there a reporter? Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council has no opportunity to wait for a reporter or author of the law. It's off-limits, we won't wait. Next question, dear colleagues. It refers to the draft Act on State Procurement. Draft Law 2207. This applies to increasing the transparency of business purchases. The project is reported by National Deputy Chumak Viktor Vasilovich. Please. Victor Vasilovich, will you report this law? Please. Turn on the speaker microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u107	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, proposed to you by the bill of Law 2207 is the first project of anti-corruption projects that we urgently propose to accept. This project has long been registered for the authorship of the leaders of the Strike, Fatherland and Freedom factions. But the past majority, despite the positive conclusions of the profile committee and the public pressure, did not accept it. This project is very simple in essence, but its consideration will clearly show whether we are ready to fight corruption holes in public procurement, making tender legislation more transparent. The Parliament of the past convened out of the State Procurement Act all purchased state-owned enterprises for so-called own funds. This was argued by the fact that purchasing under the procedures laid down in the law places state-owned enterprises in unequal conditions compared to private business, reducing their competitiveness, unduly increasing supply terms and so forth. But after making purchases at our own expense under the law, at the same time we lost any tools of public and public control of government spending, that is, our funds with you. And that's about 300 billion dollars of money a year that's been spent in the shadows ever since, and there are huge risks of corruption. Examples of such abuses in the past are a lot of plastic copper rings of 100 bracelets per item, if you remember, 5 billion once wanted to buy a land cadastre center, that's 672 bracelets per kilogram for the DUS, that's and buying government enterprises again at their own expense of luxury life attributes that have no relationship with the manufacturing process. This bill solves the problem of uncontrolledness. State enterprises can continue, I repeat, to continue to conduct tenders without complying with all the terms and procedures set out in the Law on State Procurement and not waste any extra time on paper burden. But they have to publish reports on their purchases that go beyond a certain threshold on the public procurement web portals within three working days of the contract. That is, in large measure, the essence of this bill. We are proposing a compromise that, on the one hand, allows honest state enterprises to remain competitive without spending resources on burdensome procedures, and on the other hand, enables citizens to control how their money is spent. We don't create any surplus, no production costs for state enterprises. But at the same time, we're killing shadows and greatly reducing opportunities for corruption tenders. Why is this important? Because first, by adopting this bill, we will meet one of the most important requirements of the European Union for the signing of the Association Agreement. That is, the requirement to stop dumping back into the public procurement system contained in the relevant report of the European Commission last March. Secondly, by adopting this bill, we will significantly reduce the biggest corruption hole that exists in the state today. Again, I repeat, this 50-60-billion-dollar corrupt hole that only rotates in the shadow of purchasing state-owned enterprises. On the weekends, the government announced that more complex changes had been made to the State Procurement Act. But the government project was sent back for work. It seems that the lobbying games of those who want to stay in the dining room continue around the project. And every month of delays, as I've already pointed out, are billions of expenses. In view of the above, I call upon all the national MPs present in the Hall to support this bill on the basis and in general. This will demonstrate our political will to combat corruption and more transparent public procurement. Fighting corruption is a commitment that has given voters every political presence. In addition, the project is one of the priorities of public demands and the requirements of the "Platforma Reform", which is one of the most important laws related to the fight against corruption. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u108	Thank you. Any questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Dear colleagues, please, from the committee of the National MP of Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Economic Policy Committee discussed this project on April 3, 2013. And I decided to adopt this bill as a basis, I would stress, on the basis of that. In fact, this bill really finds a golden middle between the ability of free market motivation to quickly buy businesses at their own expense, while at the same time ensuring public and other control of transparency and the real objectivity of these enterprises through the publication of information. That is, there is no delay, no exit from the competitive field of state enterprises here, but there is no control over how objectively these enterprises work. At the same time, I would like to report that the government is currently working and has been working on a project that has already been completed with the involvement of, in particular, all the public initiatives that have been put forward, and this bill has been said to support, a whole new version of the Public Procurement Bill. It will fully meet all the requirements of European public procurement directives. So we propose to adopt this bill as a basis and then to take it into account in a new draft law on public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u110	Thank you. Please sign up for the performances from the factions. Please, Ledovsky People's Deputy, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u111	Please pass on the word "Lassie the Robber."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u112	Please turn on the speaker’s microphone, or from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u113	Good Health! Helen Volodymyrna, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, this is a moment of truth. There were so many good, right words in this room about fighting corruption. We need to clean, clean not only budget purchases, but generally the rules under which tax collection is so difficult in our society. By this law we will not invent a kingdom of the heavens. But there's never been a chance before for this room to vote, this law, so this is the moment of truth. The standards that we offer to accept are very simple. It's just that for three days after the government's purchase on the web portal has been made, it has to be printed: who bought it and at what price. For effective public control to be effective, God knows where to go, but he has to go to an excessive and overestimating extent. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much, it's not about certain political decisions, it's a national decision. The cost of 250, or even 300, billion dollars a year, which will go under public control in a clear, transparent way, and on what the State budget should be directed. I very much ask everyone who is now wondering whether to leave his room, stay and vote is very important. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Michalchisin, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u115	Please pass the word to a colleague of Michael's.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u116	Please pass the word, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u117	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Honorable deputies, colleagues. In fact, this bill is very important because for over a year now we have been fighting against all the walls in order for this bill to be considered in the session room. Sadly, though, the previous majority did not allow and did not want the public procurement of state-owned enterprises to be published and open and transparent. Because in the area of procurement, it's not a secret that it's one of the most corrupt schemes that cover up nearby, billions of dollars are stolen from the budget, more than 50 billion. If the government spends about 250 billion dollars on all tenders, it's officially estimated that more than 50 is a waste system. And that's why we see things like 600 bracelets of raspberries and all that. In order for more shameful things not to happen in our country, today we have prepared this bill by three political forces: Freedom, Fatherhood and Strike, which we have been trying to look at in the session hall for more than a year. The whole point of this bill is simple, we don't make any changes, we just want these things going on in public enterprises, buying goods, jobs and services, to be public and accessible. For the public, society, journalists have the right to get to know and see how government officials manage these funds. Because really our society, Ukrainians, are working hard to fill the state budget, and we see it being looted for nothing. That is why this bill is vital today. If we want to change power, if we want to change the system in Ukraine, if we want to push for European standards to ban the system of withdrawals, we need to understand, we need a transparent society, we need to fight corruption, we need to fight against different schemes. And that's why this bill, on transparency, on government procurement by state enterprises, is very important. I call on all MPs to demonstrate their civic consciousness, to display patriotism and to vote, to support this bill, which is necessary for decisive changes in our Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Comrade MP Miroshnichenko, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u119	Dear voters, dear colleagues, we talk a lot about European choice, we talk a lot about European standards and we convince each other, and we passed a law on the principles of internal and foreign policy, where we clearly defined our activity towards European standards. The bill is proposed, which essentially introduces these European standards into our lives. All Ukrainian citizens are shareholders of these or other state-owned enterprises through the state. All state institutions are subject to citizen control because they use public funds, that is, the cost of our citizens. That is why our citizens have the right to know where their money is spent. And I don't want to divide this bill just by the authors who signed it, because I believe that any MP representing Ukrainian citizens understands and supports the approach proposed in the bill. I'm going to vote for this bill, I'm going to call on my colleagues from the Party of Regions, out of fact to support this bill, and although it's not extremely revolutionary and simple, it's just published information and everything, people know what's going on, what's going on, what's going on with their money. But at the same time, this is the first real step where we can both overcome corruption on the one hand, and on the other hand give motivation for more efficient use of funds by state institutions and state-owned enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u120	Thank you. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u121	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Do you remember a few years ago when Ukrainian roads turned into roads like never before, remember, in winter? And on the road from Kiev to Winnitz, you just couldn't even go on a tractor, on a tank, I think if it started, you couldn't go through it. I think the problem is that when 50 percent of these tenders go into government purchases, another 50 percent of them are good-for-nothing to build or repair, no road, no purchase, really, in the context of government purchases, no quality product, you just can't. You can't live by 50 percent when the other 50 percent go into your pocket, get out, fold, pack, and so forth. But we're not going to be naive, do you think there's always going to be a full system of government purchases? No, it wasn't: it wasn't, it wasn't, and unfortunately it won't. Not long ago, the Commissioner from the interior spoke. What it's exactly called, from the internal affairs of the European Union, Mrs. Malmström, and said that hundreds of billions of euros even in the countries of the European Union during state purchases are being stolen, even where such serious control is taking place. And obviously the question here should be that at this point, everyone does everything to minimize these violations. One more time, tops. I'm sorry for that phrase, but to minimize these violations during government purchases. The bill that is proposed is a very simple thing, it's easy to implement. Just print a report, just print a report, and it gives you three days. Is it hard to do that? No, it's not hard to do that. But it is not hard to do so for the 50 percent who give up. Really? Or in Ukrainian, more specifically, an outcast. If a person works honestly, it is obvious that his bill can and should be prepared. Does the content of the bill correspond to that of a colleague named Victor Chumak? The first goal is transparency, transparency. And the second goal, I wrote for myself, is to increase control through free access to information. Realize it, it's very simple, because printing, publishing, reporting on what I bought and there's a tool or control mechanism for what I bought and for what I bought. There's a reference in the science department to this bill, and by the way, they're fair, and I wish that if our people were introducing a bill, they would talk about it. or where., or explained why scientific expertise is against. So I think the first reading makes absolutely sense to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u122	Thanks for the show. Please, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the essence of the bill is clear to everyone. Let me remind you: just recently in this session room, you and I have discussed a similar bill and voted for it, it's a bill by Viacheslav Kirilenka that was adopted to implement the task of making the work of social insurance funds more transparent and to add to the publicity element. So I completely understood the essence of the bill. I would like to support the thesis made by Xenius Lapin, a representative of the profile committee. We need to continue to look for the "Golden Inside" in this. in the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. Do you know that now the authorities of local self-government have to carry out our commission to mobilize? Imagine a problem when he needs to buy 100 tons of solar power: tender, time, a lot of nerves, money, and so forth. Therefore, we must keep on searching. And one more thing. You understand what happened in Ukraine: a perverted economy in Ukraine. We now have some very strange business outlet: not the ones that produce, not the ones that produce, not the ones that create jobs, not the ones that work on new technologies, but the ones that are close to power and have the ability to touch something out of a budget pie. Such a businessman is considered successful, such a businessman on horseback, and that's wrong, so long the economy can't develop ours. So today, as a member of the Economic Development Group looks at the agenda, it is concerned that the government is breaking down the deadlines for the introduction to the session hall, for the introduction to the Supreme Council of a new edition of the Basic Law on State Procurement. I'll tell you, the absence of a law that's comprehensive and systematic, that doesn't allow us to develop, the economy, that doesn't allow us to develop a competitive business environment, that doesn't allow us to develop new jobs and to fill the budget. So it is absolutely necessary, and the government should hear our conversation today, and such a bill from the government should be introduced. I propose to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading, because, as Kseniya Liapina has rightly stated, there are rules that can work again for corruption. Clearly, then, we should vote for him in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u125	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And we would certainly have called on the faction not just to adopt this bill in the first reading, but to accept it as a whole. If there are principles of observation, Alexander Valentine's Day, then we're making a second proposal to shorten the deadline for making all comments and suggestions for second reading and to do so in a reduced procedure, so that next week, next Tuesday, we can vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. You can't pull a change of rules in the public procurement system today. Today it's called a number, I'm just going to repeat it. Three hundred billion dollars now passes through the public procurement system. This is one and a half budgets of the pension fund of Ukraine. According to the experts, the system of retorts back into the pockets of officials or goes beyond the limit of up to 70 billion dollars a day. Every year. This, again, by translating our citizens into pensions, is an equal deficit in the budget of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which does not allow us to increase pensions and social security for our citizens today. That is where the system of state resources is headed today! Not to help the poorest population, not to help pensioners, veterans, disabled people, but to help certain categories of officials. And I fully support the thesis that the government should immediately introduce a new law on public procurement, because the paradox is that yes, officials have been switched, people have changed, but the system works. Tender purchases are being made every day. Again, hundreds of millions of dollars. So, Alexander Valentinovich, there is a request to the government. The bill has already been drafted, but it has been released in the third round of further development in the ministries. During the week, this bill is to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on behalf of the government. And last but not least, Alexander Valentinovich. The situation in the country is indeed very difficult. We understand all the effort that is being exerted today on all the leadership of the State, including you. But emotion in today's situation is a bad guide. Today, we cannot use the language of emotion, blackmail, and such indignation in situations, especially within the coalition. So we're proposing to the impact faction once we've completed our consideration of this issue to take a break and discuss, please, the situation inside the coalition and not to assume any further attempt to break any faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u126	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u127	Trying to use emotions in our work and trying to make it impossible to break any faction within the coalition through our knee, or by trying to blackmail them with any solution. So there's a request for you to consider this question in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council and take a break for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to address this issue yet? Please. National MP Dombrovsky and National MP Smithyuch. Yes, I understand he wants to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u129	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I think there is no doubt that this bill should be voted on, but there is one proposal. In my opinion, there is an unhealthy competition between the work of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government. We are convinced that we need a joint legislative programme for the country's economy reform. This programme should be a joint one: a short-working Ukrainian government and a short-term Ukrainian Parliament. I would very much like this road legislative map to be introduced to Parliament at a minimum of time. Then it'll be clear who's in charge. And if the government needs parliamentary assistance today to correct or prepare some of the draft laws, then let's create such joint working groups in order to move faster in this direction, because the problem really is and needs to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u130	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is on Thursday that the Cabinet of Ministers will be introducing a package of legislative acts in the anti-crisis direction. He will be briefed personally by the Prime Minister. As far as the Procurement Act is concerned, I'm supporting National Deputy Rosenka, and we're giving the government a mandate as soon as possible to pass this law. I don't rule out that he'll be in this package Arseny Petrovich will report on Thursday at the Supreme Council. Anyway, I know that this law was already being considered on Sunday and is on the way out with the Cabinet of Ministers. It's really the most plausible question about transparency, the anti-corruption direction of activity and government, and society as a whole. Please, National Deputy Smitsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u131	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, all of you, without exception, are aware that the Act on State Procurement was a more overly corrupt law that destroyed essentially the economy of our country. All purchases, without exception, took place in an opaque way, and accordingly led to great corruption. And those who lobbied the past law - making and those who used this law should bear both political and economic responsibility. And those who today do not vote for the new edition are bound by that law that is corrupt today. A few literal comments or wishes for a second reading. Note that this law should set out certain standards that are directed, namely, to support the domestic customer and the manufacturer. And the second question. Disappoint any purchases from the Russian Federation for this day. Until we've settled the Russian Federation until Crimea returns to Ukraine, no purchase of state funds should be with the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u132	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, thank you. From the author's team, the Chumak People's Deputy, from the Strike faction, let's give him your word. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u133	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to consider that the law contains only one article. So I don't think preparing him for second reading makes any sense. That's why I'm here. What corruption risks might be involved in this bill, if it only contains one requirement: for three days, publish sales data. So I'd like to ask you to go back to that proposal that I said to vote for the law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the session room, can we vote for the basis as a whole? Can we? If you don't mind, raise your hands, I'll give you my word for comment. There's no objection. Dear colleagues, please, this is an important law, it's a law to fight corruption. Please support everyone, those who really believe that we must fight and are ready to start this fight now. Please prepare, Your Honor, for the vote. And it does. Friends, well, we discussed it, it was a faction's opportunity to speak. My fellow Members, once again, I would like to say that we are now putting to the vote a very simple but important Act (2207) on public procurement in order to increase the transparency of business purchases so that no information from society is hidden about the purchases that are made at the expense of the budget. Please, Your Honor, support this law by voting on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[13:11:55]] For 235 [[Applause]] Decision taken. By factions, please show: The Party of Regions – 14 Fatherland – 69, Impact – 25, Economic Development – 26, Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, Freedom – 31, Company 0, non-fractional – 39. Dear colleagues, next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u135	My card didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u136	Your card didn't work "for" or "against"?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u137	For!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u138	"For." National MP Herman reports that her credit card didn't work, and she also wants to support this law. Dear colleagues, we also have a very important question: these are two alternative laws that define 3378, 3378-1, the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens (about the disclosure of the State Register of Rights). It's also, I take it, an anti-corruption direction that is very important to us. We have two authors: the Chumak People's Deputy and the Martínk People's Deputy. Please, Victor Vasilovich, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, this bill is also the second project of a so-called small anti-corruption package. As soon as possible, this bill will demonstrate our political will and bring about systemic changes in this area. The essence of the bill is to make the information contained in the State Register of Real Estate Rights open and publicly available. Today's system makes it possible for a corrupt market to trade information, the very information about real estate rights, which is completely open in other civilized countries. At the same time, it greatly increases the unproductive costs of natural and legal persons during their real - estate operations. In addition, the lack of effective control over who gets access to information from the State Register of Rights creates opportunities for the implementation of fraudulent real estate schemes and facilitates registration. The lack of available and reliable information on real estate significantly increases the risk of real estate agreements and reduces the ability to effectively defend their rights under such agreements in court. The closure of property information in government and municipal property allows for the creation of a corrupt rental market and the redemption of this property in a closed regime. The bill solves most of these problems in the root. It is proposed to establish that information about the property rights and the load on the immovable property in the form of an extract is available to any natural and legal person. This extract should contain information about the history of real estate transactions, purchase-sale transactions, inheritances, mortgages, prohibitions, estrangements, burdens of the object. In doing so, confidential information about owners remains protected and can be issued in such an extract only to the owner of the immovable property or to his authorized person, heirs, persons in the interests of weightings or their authorized persons. In addition, the owner claims that he has a statement that contains information about all persons and public authorities who have applied for information about his property and reviewed it. Dear colleagues, the profile committee recommended that the project be accepted as a basis. The main scientific and expert management made a similar recommendation by making a few correct suggestions to the text. We propose that we accept this proposal and accept this bill as the basis for the first reading. Along with this project is an alternative project registered by the People’s Deputies Mohnik and Marcinkov, Marcinkov. In fact, the alternative bill is about the same things, but we think our project is a little more systematic and complete. A list of the information provided in the extract is specified, and a list of the confidential information is clarified. For my sake, it's actually a serious enough historical bill. Experts and politicians have been talking about the need to discover real estate registers for decades. But we have never been so close to this event. This will be a massive and systemic change that will have a cascading effect in order to ensure transparency and sub-control in the area of property rights regulation. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to support this project on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u140	Thank you. Please report to Project 3378-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u141	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, as early as February 2013, we tried to register this bill, together with the National Deputy Andrey Mohnik, to implement the Ukrainian Protection Program of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Unfortunately, he did not register until October of the month and was registered as an alternative project to the bill of a number of national deputies. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the bill submitted by the People's Deputies, Victor Chumak. Because we believe that today the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Retraction gives citizens the right to information about property rights and property rights in Ukraine. The bill proposes to ensure that any natural or legal person, including the media, can obtain an extract from the State Register of Real Estate Rights if the application is filed. The openness of the State Register of Real Estate Rights in Ukraine is a condition for the protection of the rights of citizens' property, the non-admission of illegal capture, raiding, too, it is a serious tool to combat corruption in this area. The openness of the State Register will allow Ukrainians: First. It is more effective to exercise our right to ownership, use, and control. The other one. It will help reduce violations of property rights, illegal housing and land. And the third. It will limit the corruption of officials who will no longer be able to hide their land from fellow citizens and the media, or from a house that cannot be purchased for official wages. The adoption of the bill will also simplify the conditions for effective management of the common property of local communities, particularly for the integration of joint owners of apartment buildings. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union urges Parliament to vote in favour of both bills and to support the bill of our colleague. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Xenius Lapin Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u143	Thank you. The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on January 15, 2014, discussed both of these bills. They are both aimed at facilitating access to information from the Keeper’s Register about their right to exercise weight and limitations. In fact, several attempts have been made during the history of this register to make open information. Yet it is important to disclose information so that it does not violate the Personal Data Protection Act. And in this sense, the committee notes that it is Bill 3378 who has found a balance between the discovery of information, the ability to verify the existence of those or other restrictions on the object of real estate. At the same time, by protecting personal data such as identification code or passport data of the person who registers such rights. Thus, there is a certain security against raids, attacks on someone's real estate, while there is open information, the possibility of checking the existence of any restrictions on rights and, therefore, preventing various abuses with property that are unfortunately still in Ukraine today. So the committee suggests, however, there are several observations by the Scientific and Expert Office that are actually legal in nature and actually have to be taken into account in the drafting of this bill for the second reading. Therefore, the committee’s decision to support Bill 3378 was based on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u144	Thank you, committee. Dear colleagues, let's sign up from factions for this statement. Please turn on the "Council" system and record the people's deputies from the factions. Please. People's Deputy Leonov, Freedom. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u145	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u146	Please, Mikhaylo Golovko is going to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u147	Mikhailo Golovko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, this Bill 3378 is really very relevant and important. Because in society today, there was this problem that we had mass violations during the registration of real estate rights, property rights, land. In particular, we have witnessed that in Ukraine in recent years there has been an apophetism of raiding and seizure of property, real estate, land, and all of this has been distorted by authorities, law enforcement agencies. So it's very important today if we demonstrate that we are an authority that is open to society, an authority that is open to the people, it's going to meet people, it's going to introduce such bills. So that the community has the opportunity and the right to get to know each other about the purchase of real estate, land or something, a house, someone else who owns the property. Because right now we're only opening up information about this property, not about the individuals, because there's a point, of course, that there's going to be some pressure, some speculative possibilities. And in view of the fact that we only disclose information about these objects, it is possible to find out especially before buying or selling the property to whom it belongs. That's why we call on everyone to support this bill that was discussed in our committee and was supported by all the political forces, and the impact, the fatherhood, the freedom, all the majority deputies and other political factions, our bill, and to support it, because it is very important to Ukrainian society, because we want to make changes in Ukrainian legislation, and change for people. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u148	Thank you. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u149	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Have you ever been to a Kiev market called Petrovka? Were they? Didn't you offer disks that have information about everything? Police information, S.B.I. information, God knows what. Unfortunately, in Ukraine today, any information, any character, is being sold insolently. Personality, individuality, and so on and so forth, and that's reality. First. Second moment, dear fellows. We're in a state today. Everything okay? The law enforcement system has reached European level? In order for gang formations, racketeers, raiders, raccoons of all kinds, cattle, excuse me, anyone who, under the influence of revolutionary and patriotic slogans, bomb ordinary people, bomb state institutions, bomb universities, bomb restaurants, bomb anything? You don't know that, do you? No, we didn't. So, honourable colleagues, when we open any registers, we have to make ten, twenty security guards, so that this information doesn't come from public honest organizations, not from public honest activists, so that it doesn't get to criminals who are completely, fully, mariners, raiders. And this is a very important question today. So if you accept, the honorable Alexander Valentinovich, exclusively in the first reading, and the most serious work to make sure that the safety nets in this law are serious. Citizens have the right to know all about property, but these should be honest, orderly, and law - abiding citizens. And for that, the law enforcement agencies have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, People's Chamberlain, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u151	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, Parliament has really, really changed a lot, I have to give you this testimony. I didn’t even think that we could accept the previous Law 2207 in this room. I am very grateful to everyone who voted in favour. For me, it's a strong motivation -- to believe that we can, we can change the country together. The next bill, 3378, is about transparency of government registers. The previous speaker on this stand spoke, he said, really, everything is being sold, any information can be bought, it's true. And the closure of the registers now allows the prosecution's offices, from the police to get any information illegally, on the one hand, by warming up on this hand, on the other hand, you'll never know who's gathering information on you to raid you until the raiders come to you for business or your assets. I'm saying that the only way to really protect ourselves from raiding is to give it to those who are appealing to the silencer with information about you, at the same time, is to open registers. Because when you have the opportunity to clearly demonstrate to society, to all your unwelcome people that it is your property, it belongs to you in the state, and not, God forbid, to wait against you for any backlog of a court decision that will deprive you of everything, except in the case of transparency of the state registers, there is an opportunity for you to protect yourself. A particular question is the question of apartment forgeries and all kinds of craftsmanship. The situation on the real estate market right now is a huge problem: before you buy any asset, any apartment, any house, you have the opportunity to check that this apartment isn't in the mortgage, that it doesn't have a permanent maintenance contract, that it's not in the loan, and it actually belongs to who you're giving the assignment to. Very often apartment machinations, apartment machinators take advantage of the fact that good - mannered citizens are not able to gather such information on time, and this creates an enormous number of ideas. In addition, we struggle to have a clear right of ownership in this society. It's an advantage for both owners and society. Last but not least, so as not to feed all kinds of apprehension in the police, in the prosecutor's office, who are happy to keep their paws from the raiders who will come and unpack you. Such a social agreement to fight for transparent rules of the game, for private property, for European approaches. Please support me in my first reading of 3378. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy, Zuravsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u153	This bill is very important, it's in time, it's anti-corruption and it's effective indeed, it's an anti-riding tool. It protects private property as sacred and untouchable. This bill proposes to establish that information on the rights and burdens of the property in the form of an extract is available to any natural or legal person. Information on the registration number of the taxpayer or the series and the passport number of the owner of the property, the detailed information on the burden or mortgage is information, and I emphasize this, with limited access. It is given in an appropriate extract only to the owner or owner of the immovable property or to their authorized persons, heirs and persons for whom the load is placed or their authorized. According to the owner of the property, he is provided with a statement from the register containing information about persons who have received real estate rights and burdens. The 3378 bill contains one major flaw. The Comparative Table is based on the norm without any changes, i.e. the editor that has become obsolete. At the same time, the approach proposed in this project can address the objective set out in Bill 3378 and Bill 3378-1. I'm for 3378 to accept both as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we are talking a lot today in the session room about what we need to take decisive steps to get closer to Euro-integration. So today these bills that we are voting on, and the bill 2207, and 3378, are much more serious steps we have taken to bring European standards closer than the many very decisions we have discussed here. The same is true of these votes in the context of our community dialogue with you, because, in fact, what today requires of us is society, the adoption of these four bills, and they need to be satisfied with the timely adoption of the Social Speech Act, and several other key laws. They will really make our society more open. At the same time, we want to support all of our colleagues -- and colleagues of Zarubinsky and other colleagues -- who have strongly protested that today, unfortunately, does not really honor all of us. In society, there has been an increase in the incidence of looting, such as the capture of places of some kind under the aegis of revolutionary delicacy. It's not European, we have to call things our names, it's raiding, it's marauding, it's unacceptable things. Any action in any room, even if it belongs to the greatest villain, can only take place according to the court's decisions and only according to the decisions of the relevant authorities. And we will remember that in the European Union, in a civilized world, private property is a sacred right. But, really, at the same time, these registers have to be open. First of all, for whom? For notaries, for banks, for all those people and processes that have to test this information. Similarly, if such questions have been raised in journalists, they should receive such information. But, in fact, here, at the same time, every person’s sacred constitutional right to privacy must be protected. So we're going to propose and we're going to be voting on Bill 3378 in the first reading. We ask the Head of the Supreme Council to be instructed to prepare this law for the second reading in an accelerated procedure, and we will all join ourselves together to improve it, to develop it in a balanced manner, so that it meets European standards. To guarantee, on the one hand, the right of Ukrainian citizens to know the truth about these registers of property, but at the same time the balance with the Constitution of Ukraine on the right to privacy was maintained. And so I think it's going to be very important, dear colleagues, that you and I set a personal example of this openness. When we write our declarations this year, everyone can honestly state their real estate. This will be the best answer to these challenges and the desire to show our openness with you, including our real estate. I think society and journalists are looking forward to such steps from the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u156	Thanks for the offer. Your Honor, please, are you willing to make a statement? Now it's a hit. Let's do some other factions. Is there anyone else who would like to step out of this law? Dear colleagues, I see the hand of the People's Deputy Kaplan. Because other factions do not offer their performances additionally. Please turn on the microphone of the distinguished national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u157	Sergey Kaplin, Faction Impact, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. Continuing these of my colleague Irina Heratchenko, I would like to stress: no law, no legal act, which will be adopted in this room, but which will not rely on the wish of the performers to do it, to serve the Constitution, the law, Maidan and the will of the people will not succeed. And so, of course, in making all the decisions that we make, we must also demand the active authority, the government, personally from the Prime Minister, to finally begin with a large-scale illustration and repositioning. Let's not assume that the examples of the raiding that were during the revolution, when members of the strike party in Kirovograd were taking property, boldly copied, forced to do this registration room and notaries to other people, and all of this under the cover of the head of the internal affairs department of the area, who then, under strange circumstances, went to higher ground, leading the proper administration in the Donetsk region. Can we, under these circumstances, guarantee that the laws we adopt will work? The other one. Let us not assume that after the revolution, hundreds of dead people who have been mutilated will remain in office, such as the headquarters, which coordinates the work of all government officials. And perhaps only because she is the godmother of Luke and Pshonka will continue to be in that position. I can continue to list these positions for a long time, last name. I started my illustrative tour of Ukraine that week. He traveled through Harkovsky and Poltavsk region. And I want to tell you, authorities make hundreds of human resources mistakes all over Ukraine. And so it was decided to renew the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Army, of which I am the leader. Started working on an in.ua site. And we're going to be gathering complaints from all people about some sort of assignment and cruel, and sometimes cruel, reaction to these precedents. I am convinced that we must all unite now and bear in mind the responsibility of the Celestial 100th and Maidan, who, I am convinced, should not disperse until Janukovich’s last man and regime are removed from the system of state authorities. And only then can we say that reforms have begun in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u158	Thank you. I, the only one, ask the distinguished national MP who will react harshly and harshly, to listen to the speech of the national deputy Heratchenko, who suggested that all of this should be within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. That's what I'm talking about. And then any response should happen as it is in a civilized country. Please, does the author of the law have a few words to say? Please turn on the microphone, National Deputy Chumak Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u159	I want to respond to the words of my colleague Zarubinsky. I want to tell you that world practice has proved that the most effective protection of private property, the most effective protection of its own property, is the publicity of information about it. Clearly, then, the work of law enforcement agencies should be under strict control. But when that information becomes public, it provides the opportunity to protect any person's property, because it is this person who will know all possible movements regarding his property by extracting it from the register. I want to thank the People's Deputies for supporting this bill, and I want to ask them to vote on the basis of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u160	Thank you. Ruslan Romanovich, do you have a few words to say to the end? I can't see my hand. None. Dear colleagues, I'm putting Project 3378, and in turn we're going to vote, for adoption, I emphasize, in the first reading, because many of the presentations have made proposals for serious development of these projects. And so, please, 3378 draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens (about the disclosure of the State Register of Rights). Please, 3378 in the first reading. Please. [[13:39:40]] For 175 The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 64, Impact 25, Economic Development 5, Sovereign European Ukraine 22, Freedom 32, Company 0, non-fractional 25. It's about voting on draft law 3378/1. I'm asking you for a basis, i.e. in the first reading, to support this project. Please vote. [[13:40:20]] For-173 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 65, Impact - 25, Economic Development - 3, Sovereign European Ukraine - 22, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 25. Dear colleagues, there's an offer, so I understand the MPs want to make it about the re-reading of the first reading. No objections? By uniting these laws and by enacting a single law for the rereading of the first reading. Can we support this, dear colleagues? We can. I ask you to vote for this proposal. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote for the re-reading. [[13:41:06]] For 207 For just 207. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 67, Impact 25, Economic Development 25, Sovereign European Ukraine 26, Freedom 32, Company 0 and non-factional 30. Unfortunately, no decision is made. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you, remember, 2659 we offered to consider the law. And the national deputy Saldo wasn't in the hall, he came up, asked to be given the opportunity to consider this law in a simplified manner. It's very short, there's a paragraph. Can we give him our word? We can. But before that, I ask you to support the vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the shorter procedure of 2659, please. [[13:42:07]] For-195 Decision taken. This is a procedural decision, I recall, so this number of votes is enough. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u161	Honourable MPs, the bill proposed, are to amend article 6 of the Ukrainian RSD Housing Code to article 150 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and article 1 of the Ukrainian Tourism Act. The amendments to article 6 of the Housing Code propose allowing for the temporary use of an apartment, room, or bed - seat in apartments of multiple dwellings with a living space of less than 13.65 square meters per person only with the prior written consent of the owners of other apartments located in one driveway of the apartment’s apartment. The amendments to article 150 of the Code of Administrative Offences provide for the imposition of a fine of 100 to thousands of untaxed minimum citizens' incomes on those who organize hostels or put them on contractual terms in the temporary use of an apartment, a room or a bed-and-dwelling space in multi-family housing units. Less than 1.65 square feet [1.65 sq m] per person and without prior written consent to the chances of other apartments located in one driveway. Changes to part one of article 1 of the Ukrainian Tourism Act propose that the term "hostel" be defined. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the Committees, the Committee on Budgets and the Regulatory Committee's conclusions on this draft Law were negative, our committee believes that this bill can be supported in the first reading. Because it provides an opportunity to provide services to people in those hostels that are already in the legal order. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, let's do two in favour, two in the opposite. Please sign up. Have a seat, please. What is it? What's going on? Please, National Deputy of Cherniaków, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u164	Please, Ruslan Marcinkov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u165	Please, Russla Marcinkov, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, this law cannot be voted for. Because today most of our citizens, our Ukrainians, survive and sometimes rent apartments to students, especially in the area centers, apply to the city of Kiev. And this bill, I've been speaking on our profile committee, contradicts a number of legislative acts. In particular, article 383 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, which provides that the owner of a housing home has the right to use the apartment for his own living, the residence of his family and others, and that he has no right to use it for industrial production. The bill also contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly article 41, which clearly states that everyone has the right to own, use and manage his property, the results of his intellectual and creative activities. Also with regard to the text of the bill itself, it should be said that the implementation of the requirement to obtain prior written consent from owners of other apartments, particularly the entire approach, is unlikely. In view of the foregoing, we feel that the bill in question today cannot be adopted even in the first reading. Therefore, this bill needs to be voted against and the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom does not support the adoption of this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u167	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. On the one hand, we keep talking about the need to attract tourists, including in Ukrainian lands, to Ukrainian territory. On the other hand, this bill actually removes hostels from circulation all over Ukraine, which is housing that is the most accessible to the world's most mobile sections of the population is studenthood, youth, or just people who don't have the capacity to be accommodated in expensive hotels or, as it were, have an alternative. Unfortunately, this bill further regulates this activity, further regulates the activities of the household business and business in Ukraine as a whole. Why don't you think about what it means in a 20-story house to build a permit in every apartment to actually manage your property? The property that is indeed enshrined in article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that everyone has the right to own, use and dispose of his property, and the right of private property in Ukraine is inviolable. That's why the strike faction won't vote in favour of this bill. Because instead of expanding Ukraine's capabilities, we're narrowing down Ukraine's attractive appearance. And secondly, Alexander Valentine's Day, we are still waiting on the author of this bill, Mr. Jaremy, to implement the corresponding article of the Constitution of Ukraine and to form his credentials as Ukrainian National Deputy, considering that he is being appointed today in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So, please, pay attention to that too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u168	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kugel "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u169	Please give the floor to the national deputy of Andreyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u170	The Andreyevsky People’s Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, indeed, we have heard enough good points, but at the same time I would like to pay attention to the following. Today we propose to vote on this bill in the first reading. And there are plenty of things that we can change, including things that determine the rights and possibilities of renting housing. I'd like to say that this bill does not apply in any way to the toilet business. And as for hostels, we don't ban hostels with this bill, we just organize these hostels to determine how many meters each person should have. I think it's quite clear today that giving one person an apartment by formula is one bed dangerous from any point of view. Therefore, a request to be supported in the first reading may be further elaborated on this bill, making appropriate changes so that this bill actually works for the benefit of our electorate, the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u172	Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask a very simple question to myself, and obviously to you: Who is the beneficiary of this bill? Who can benefit from this bill? Let's think about it, shall we, people? No, a person who owns a private apartment has the right to hand it over. The other thing that she has to pay is, yes, the rent tax. On the other hand, a person who, for example, moved to a district center, to a capital, learns from a university, about this today, colleagues, by the way, spoke correctly. And where she lives, we have a university that has 100 percent chance of providing housing, they say. Where do people live, at the station, at the train station, or at the railway station? So I would ask that when one of our colleagues thinks about whether or not another bill he thinks about two steps forward, how does that affect people? Third moment. What is this 13 meters? So if there are more than 20 feet [13 m] per person, can it be possible, if 12 meters [12 m], to ask all the occupants? I'm sorry, I don't mean to offend anyone, but it's totally stupid. Right, 20 floors in one driveway, how do you question them? It's done to make it impossible for people to just rent, and so on, first of all, students, first of all, low-income people found in Kiev, Odessa, or Lviv work from rural areas, so they can't live anywhere. This may be advantageous for builders, but a competitive fight must be fair. The bill is not designed to implement human rights, the motivation is clear to me, but I think it's a legend of motives, given that other residents are often dissatisfied, that one of the neighbors is renting an apartment, you know? What can be certain about people who violate public order, but why is the owner here? There are law enforcement agencies, please take care of these matters. Because those people who rent an apartment take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u174	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u175	Those who rent, rent an apartment, they have the right to live in Ukraine, according to which they are either Ukrainian citizens or they have a residence permit, and they are protected accordingly, including the law enforcement authorities. I mean, as in the past, the previous bill, I propose that the law enforcement system should perform its functions. And to adopt laws that conflict with people's interests, I think absolutely, well, unfairly on our part. The Group "Sovereign European Ukraine" will not support this inhumane bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear friends, I have such a feeling that the Supreme Council will not support this law and this is also the position of the Supreme Council, because a negative decision in this case is also a decision and it will be positive for many citizens. Is that what I'm saying? You insist, Mr. Capplin, yes, at the performance? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u177	Alexander Valentine's Day, I saw logically vote on another bill at this point after the revolution, when people expect us to take real steps so that those oligarchs, who are particularly in Poltavishland, on the shore of Dnipra or other rivers, will build their properties, agree to this construction with those thousands of peasants who then suffer from their presence and revelry, then shooting and so forth. And in terms of this situation, I think we should do the following. Ask the minister of the interior to actually activate the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, particularly in places where the local authorities are properly performing their functions and not allowing any of the most beautiful studios to disturb the tranquillity of these or other approaches. And the law, of course, is, well, a simple fool, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, let us be clear on this question. I am voting in the first reading of the Act (2659) amending certain legislation on the protection of citizens' housing rights. Please, in the first reading, please identify yourself as Supreme Council. [[13:54:57]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes. I'd like to consult you. I was approached by the vice president of the local self - government committee, David Vážajevich Zwania, and he says that today is the last day when it is possible to make a decision on the appointment of out - of - turn local elections. There are a few popular places where these elections are not scheduled. Can we vote on this issue now? Please be able to sign and submit to the appropriate electoral commission a job assignment so that on May 25 they can hold elections and save money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I'm not taking up your time. We have 10 appeals, the concern of individual city councils about the appointment of out - of - turn elections for city heads in connection with the suspension of their terms of office on the basis of a personal application. So we don't have any reservations about the election in these cities. This is the Suman city head of the Suman region, the Vasilkow city head of the Kyiv region, the suburban city head of the Chernigiv region, the Anthracite city head of the Lugansk region, the Ladesinian city head of the Vinnitsk region, the Romanian city chief of the Sumsk region, the bebrine city head of the Bobrinecki district of Kirovgrad district. These are the decisions. If you agree, I ask your support. We'll vote on the paragraphs. Can I read it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u180	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u181	Package can't be packed, sorry. Draft Decree 4529: draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the Sumi district of Sumi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u182	4529, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u183	4529.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the bill of Decree 4529 by voting as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. I'm asking you to support all the national MPs. [[13:57:08]] For 211 Dear colleagues, I feel that some have started their lunch break. We haven't finished our parliamentary work yet. I ask you, colleagues, to return to this vote. Please vote on the return to the vote. Colleagues, I ask you to sit down and support local self-government, and hold elections at these locations. The MPs in the hall have to work while the session hall is running! I'm going to the deputies, not to rest in the cafeteria, not to watch TV, but to go back to the hall and work. Please vote back on this matter. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:57:59]] For 227 Oh, we're working hard. Colleagues, let's mobilize, huh? Please. Please vote on this ruling as a basis and as a whole. [[13:58:22]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u185	Project Order 4530. Basilkow city head (town of Vasilków Kyiv district) Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u186	4530. No notes, no respectable colleagues? I ask for a basis and a total of 4,530 to vote on the elections. Please vote. [[13:58:51]] For 232 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u187	Draft decision 4531. Participative City Head (town of Chernigiv Prefecture) Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u188	4531. I'd like to support you with your respectable colleagues, your trifles, your election. Please vote. [[13:59:18]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u189	4532. Anthracite City Head (Anthracite City Council of the Lugansk Region) Your Honor, I'd like you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u190	4532. Please, Your Honor, vote for the basis as a whole. You'll be able to have lunch. Please vote. [[13:59:44]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, David Vazievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u191	Order 4533. Yellowwater City Head, Yellowwater City Council of the Dnipropetrov region Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u192	4533. I beg your pardon, Your Honor! Yellow Waters, Dnipropetrovsk district. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[14:00:14]] For 226 Dear colleagues! Please! Mobilize, please. We're working at the border.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u193	There are five decrees left. For a while. 4534.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u194	David Vazajevich, the forces of the national deputies have been abandoned. Let's speed up the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u195	4535. Romanian city head (Roman City Council of the Suma Region) Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u196	4534.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u197	35.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u198	35. 4535. Please, Your Honor, support me. Please vote. [[14:00:54]] For 229 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u199	4534. Ladzien City Head (Ladzhin City Council of the Winnitsk Region)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u200	4534. Please, Your Honor, please support me as a whole. Please vote. [[14:01:19]] For 228 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u201	Order 4536. Bobrinecki city head (town of Bobrinec district of Kirovograd district) Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u202	4536. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[14:01:45]] For 229 Decision taken. David Vajaevich, how long do you have left to say?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u203	Two.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u204	Two. Guys, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u205	4537. Baturin city head (town of Baturin in the region of Chernigiv).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u206	Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u207	4537.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u208	4537. Please be supportive. As a basis and as a whole, vote. Please. Vote. [[14:02:18]] For 225 Colleagues, please! 225 – no decision taken. Colleagues, come on, please don't relax, don't relax, two decisions, two decisions left. Let's go back to this decision -- 4537. Is that what I'm saying? 4537. Please come back, colleagues. Don't split up, please. Help local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u209	The city of Baturin is a historic city, do not be left without a mayor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u210	Do not leave people without the right to choose their head. Please return to the vote. Press harder. [[14:03:02]] For 230 Thank you. We're going back to that decision. I'll bet the vote on the basis and in general draft regulation 4537. Please vote. [[14:03:24]] For 228 Decision taken. That's the last decision. David Vajaevich, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u211	Korsun-Shevchenkow city head (city of Korsun-Shevchenkovsky Korsun-Shevchenkov district of Cherkas region) is 4538.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u212	Colleagues, we can't leave the Corsun-Shevchenk community without a head. Please let's vote. 4538 – that's what I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u213	4538.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u214	4538. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please be supportive. [[14:04:00]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I've been approached. What, David Vajaeevich, is not all? No, wait, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u215	Information that these elections were scheduled for May 25, 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-25-m0.u216	Just like that, on May 25, 2014, along with the presidential election. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by the national deputy of Bandurov, who is asking for a strong vote on the issue of ensuring the sustainability of strategic enterprises. But I'm just afraid there aren't enough voices. I'm asking everyone. Do we vote? No, we don't. Dear colleagues, I'm asking all the MPs, all the factions, the MPs, the non-fractionals, at 16 o'clock we'll continue our work. Let us not relax, and all of us gather together at 16 hours to adopt very important legislative acts. Thank you.
