ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Members of the Secretariat will be reminded that a plenary meeting will begin at 10 a.m. Please, Your Honor, we're starting the registration of the National Deputies. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:03]] There were 253 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, according to tradition on Tuesday, we are allowing the leaders of MP groups and factions to speak. Please sign up for the performance. From factions. Dear colleagues, I am not the technical head of Parliament! So you don't have any buttons -- go to the Secretariat and they'll give you help. Dear colleagues, please, from the "Fatherland" faction, the word is given to Sergei Soboljev, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u2	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I think today's week is not just a week to go on with what's happening in the country for the first month and how we need a clear definition of what's going to happen next and how Parliament will react to these events. I would like to begin by saying that, at all meetings today, there is one question: how long will the Kings sit in Parliament, who is actually running all anti-Ukrainian politics, where all the relevant decisions are made, and these decisions are not approved by Parliament. Until now, there will be no arms dealers in parliament who actually contribute to the capture of local administrations, militias, security services, and other government agencies. And in fact, in this way they confirm the old truth that these people did not fall out of Janukovic's nest, but they remain those who pursue Yanukovic's politics in sovereign Ukraine. The third question that comes out of all the meetings is in fact the issue of national security. And I think that when individual politicians today try to provoke us to stop an anti-terror operation. We remember very well the cessation of the antiterrorist operation during the great religious festival. It was the only stop that ended with a series of joint bellies, marauders, the killings of the civilian population, which had been made by a terrorist group sent here by Putinim and the Russian Federation. That is why we should clearly separate those who are willing to negotiate and with whom we can negotiate, and those who have made a choice for themselves. And this choice is clearly not Ukraine, or Ukrainian interests, but this choice is how to dismember Ukraine and destabilize the situation in Ukraine. That is why today’s order of the day actually consists of three fundamental questions. The first question is, How can we make it impossible to break elections in Ukraine? And those proposals that are from the Central Electoral Commission, we need to be approved immediately, because taking out the so-called technical candidates and trying to get people off the board who represent these technical candidates is an attempt to directly break the election in the country. Second, it's a set of issues that relate to anti-corruption. This is a question that is directly related to the pressures on small and medium - size businesses, which continue to take place in the same people who have never changed. Maybe they switched presidential candidates during that time, switched party flags. But look what's going on in the same districts of the police, in the same districts of the Ukrainian Security Service, in the same district prosecutors. Unfortunately, we see the same ones who for years have been brought up by the Yanukovich call to perform one function: the destruction of the Ukrainian state. That's why we have a clear position on those bills that allow us today to deal with small and medium-sized business issues and those so-called pseudo-checks that make it impossible for businesses to work properly, especially in the middle and in the small and business sectors. And the last. This is no doubt related to the most important bills that we have considered last week. I think this question can be put into one complex: which will allow the National Bureau of Investigation as an independent body to create all the preconditions for anti-corruption policies through direct recourse to the courts. And all of this together will enable us to implement the necessary steps that will enable us to stabilize the situation in the country before the elections. That is why the list of issues approved on this session day is necessary and will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u3	Thank you. From the faction of the "Regions" the word is given to the national deputy of Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u4	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, Ukraine is now experiencing difficult times. And I can't help but agree that there's wine in it, as they say, Yanukovich. But let's get this over with. Three months -- actually about a hundred days ago -- there's a new power in Ukraine. And in my time, I remember you telling us, "When are you going to stop talking about the ancestors?" So let's say we take responsibility -- and it's in power. On the other hand, you can talk about the faction of the Party of Regions. But the key decisions that were necessary in order to achieve stability in the first days were where we needed to be: we were in the hall and we were voting: both for the ceasefire, and for the issues that stabilized the situation in the Supreme Council, I voted in person. Oleg, 28 members of the Supreme Council of the factions of the Party of the Regions, provided the majority and gave their votes. We then made one single request to the authorities. We will certainly be very saddened for the loss of lives in Kiev. The Celestial 100 is our tragedy, the tragedy of all of Ukraine. Do you know what they think of the heavenly wife in the South-East today? More than a hundred people have died in the east of Ukraine. And everyone is concerned that this is not the first heavenly wife. On Saturday, a round table was held in Kharkiv. It made a decision to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept a memorandum that would be a real road map for a way out of the crisis. There was no objection to any of the points proposed on the round table regarding this memo. What are the key positions? There's only what we talk about all the time and what we've almost agreed to in most cases. That is, the need for decentralization. But please tell all of us, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that in 100 days we have not been able to offer the country a real solution for amending the Constitution on decentralization. What we've done is put together all the proposals and send them to the Venice Commission. Is that what you promised on Maidan? Is that why people died in Midan? The requirement for decentralization was one of the main ones with which you made demands for Janukovich’s authority, and the visa was still there. The second question. We are destined to resolve the issue of constitutional security of the status of the Russian language. How is this a discussion? But it has to happen. We have to give guarantees to 20 million Russian-speaking citizens that their right to use their own language will be protected and will never again be an issue of provocation. We've already provoked ourselves in this room. We demanded the lifting of the Sebastopol covenants. They are gone now, and what has made our country easier?Oh, my God! The Sevastopol covenants went along with Crimea. Therefore, we must be responsible in every word we say and in every action we take. The position of the faction of the Party of Regions, which is now receiving support and understanding in most circles, about our society, about the representatives of society, is an exclusively peaceful way of finding compromise. There is to be a suspension of military operations and an opportunity for people who have taken up arms to protect their public rights, to fold them, and to hear them. And they have to feel that they have been heard, that respect and attention are given to them. There is no other way, peace must come in our country! Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u5	From the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom, the word is given to Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u6	Glory to Ukraine! Dear Society, today we Ukrainians hold a test of the ability to be a nation of nations, and we need to distinguish grain from half, a lie from the truth. Here a representative of the Party of the Regions has just been talking about a "heavenly wife" in eastern Ukraine. Yes, indeed, the "heavenly wife" is already forming, and it's forming, unfortunately too, from the composition of those patriots that were found in rivers with their bellies pierced, that's the "heavenly wife." It's made up of those priests that were killed there by terrorists, yes, it's a "heavenly wife." "The Heavenly Wife" is formed from our "liberator" by Dmitri Chernavsky, head of the press service of the Donetsk Organization, who died during a peaceful rally in Donetsk at the hands of the terrorists. It's a "heavenly wife." And so today, we need to make a clear distinction between who is in Ukraine and who is in Moscow. And how can you negotiate with terrorists and separatists round tables? Because separatists are the ones who want to separate part of Ukraine and join it into Russia, and terrorists are helping them. The bodies found, the bearded terrorists killed, what, Ukrainian citizens? These are all citizens of the Russian Federation, those who have been dumped here and who are destroying Ukrainians today and creating an artificial civil resistance here in Ukraine. You can't negotiate with terrorists and separatists because you can't talk to them? [[Applause]] Except how to rebuild Russia. They are not interested in building Ukraine. We need to talk to those who want to live in Ukraine who have their visions together in the Ukrainian state. And therefore, society today is a great test for both the nation and the great test for the present authority. We have to realize a very important fact: today we have a slippery counter-revolution, and it will continue if we don't approve of the Illustration Act. Society, I can't call anymore, but I have to do it. There's not going to be a illustration -- the cleansing of power -- we're going to have the same average chain. You see what's going on in information policy: the Ukrainian information space is still in occupation, and the dirt and mud on Moscow's side is pouring on the Ukrainian audience and on the Ukrainian viewer. How can you do that?Oh, my In fact, we have been at war with Moscow for several months now. What's next? Through our Ukrainian channels, all those shows about Russian mints, about the heroism of the Russian army. Society, this has to be stopped, and the sooner the better, because we're going to lose everything. Lustration -- the cleansing of power -- is the base. There's no illustration, and then all those frames are still there. You see, the Taxes -- the same schemes work, the same old ones, the customs -- the same schemes, the same old ones, they work. We need a clean-up of power as soon as possible, and that's the basic thing that "Freedom" requires today. And the illustration will help us to fight against sabotage and, in fact, to stop the real concrete changes and reforms that are now very important in Ukrainian society and in the Ukrainian state. I would like to ask all of you today to put the day’s issue of removing the Kingdom’s parliamentary integrity into order. Why is there no more of this issue in the daytime, and the people are waiting for it? The Attorney General’s Office should continue to submit to those deputies who support terrorists and separatists. Next. Bill 4834, introduced by the Freedoms, on guarantees of social legal protection for military personnel. I am grateful that the day's draft of my decree, 4897, has been put in order to ensure proper medical care for those involved in the fighting, who are now fighting heroically on the eastern front, our wounded soldiers and officers should be treated and rehabilitated in Phoefania, society, not in bad conditions of military hospitals. Well, it's very important that they put in the agenda No.4828 to raise the professional level of law enforcement personnel who would have predicted the re-testing of prosecutors, militias, the state border, the Ukrainian Security Service to stop the creeping counter-revolution. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u7	From the impact faction, the word is Vitaly Klitschka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Dear voters! This week must enter the history of Ukraine. For this, the most important thing is to hold presidential elections, and they must go through honestly and transparently, and take place as an honest, democratic expression of the will of the citizens. Therefore, the responsibility of all political forces is to ensure that the elections take place for all parts of Ukraine: that politicians use their influence on Donbas not to fuel the conflict, but to settle it and accept the elections; that all stations open in time; and that members of the commission and observers do their work honestly and conscientiously. In this room we have passed amendments to a law that allows for voting and its security for all voters. Effectiveness should be demonstrated by the enforcement of this law, ensuring the security of voting is the most important thing that should take place in the regions. The whole world is looking at us, and everyone's actions -- once again, I want to emphasize everyone -- will be revealed. We have received information that one of the candidates for the post of city chief Odessa Hennaday Truhanov has as many as two passports, who is a citizen of the Russian Federation. This information was published in the media. How can a person be a mayor of a Ukrainian city who is a foreign citizen? [[Applause]] Not to mention that he is a citizen of a state who is actually at war with Ukraine today, under the flag of which the fighters have set up bloody provocations. Please consider this part of my statement to be a question of parliament, and I ask the presiding officer: please, Alexander Valentinovich, give all necessary instructions for the circumstances to be investigated, and the charges of violating this law have been brought to justice. The second question of principle. To restore peace, it is vital to show all sides of the opposition the way to a truce. But I emphasize that this should be the way to peace, not to play with certain groups in society. The fighters themselves recognize that fewer people are supporting their actions and that military opposition has no support in society. So it's time to put the dots over the "and." Before the election, we see a whole set of bills to prevent the punishment of the participants. Amnesty is possible only if the illegally armed elements of the riot form weapons, free the occupied premises and stop terrorizing civilians. The government bill has the right positions, and it should be supported, at least on the basis of speedy work. In particular, consider again the list of articles for which it is proposed to relieve responsibility. To avoid being held accountable by those who have shot or tortured people. Once again, do not try to speculate on an armed struggle. The only way to peace is to lay down an illegal weapon. Work on issues that really concern people: economic development, social protection, the fight against corruption. Next. The Ukrainian people united around the support of their defenders. Hundreds of millions of dollars are being collected today to assist the Armed Forces. We control every bracelet. We're initiating the establishment of a special commission to control the financing of the Armed Forces, so that the funds go to help soldiers and officers, not to someone in their pocket. And the last. The new Constitution should enable the central and local authorities to deal effectively with these issues and enable society to control power. That means that you can't let the concentration of power in someone's hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u9	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u10	This is not about passing on the position of President of the Prime Minister, it will not solve the issue of efficiency. The balance of power between the President and the Prime Minister, as is the case in France, Poland, and other countries with similar conditions with Ukraine. This also means that decentralization should give citizens rights and powers. So there's no need to push any drafts of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u12	So there's no need to push any draft Constitution, even the government, all the more behind society. Before the Constitution is considered in this room, it must be processed by experts in all regions of Ukraine. Only then will it work for all society, for every Ukrainian citizen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u13	From the parliamentary group "Supreme European Ukraine", the word is given to Alexander Sergiyovich Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u14	Alexander Donnyy, the group "Northern European Ukraine". Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! We should have a serious discussion of the internal situation in the Supreme Council for a long time. Because when the country is in a state of external military aggression, when military action is provoked here by Russian fascists, Russian chauvinists who are trying to break our country, first of all Parliament, as the Supreme Council, must demonstrate the implementation of the law. Now we're all reading that, for example, the Venice Commission has proposals for changes to the Constitution. And first of all, to think about, before you change the law, you need to think about what the law needs to be done. And unfortunately, our proposals, not by law, not by keeping the procedure, are somehow not being heeded. The question is: Why? You know, I've been looking over the agenda today. The agenda that each MP has, I hope, is looking at some deputies in the agenda. The Committee's conclusion is missing, the Committee's conclusion is missing, the Committee's conclusion is missing! Let me remind you that MPs have no right in the session room to consider a bill if there is no committee conclusion. Three committees have considered "refuse," and 24 conclusions are missing! Instead, the suggestions, the current proposals required by the MPs, are not something to do with the day’s order. Our group only needs two questions. Two questions, and there's no one. The first question is the removal of the Queen's parliamentary powers. Since a person who calls for separatist action should not be in this room, he should not have a high status as a national deputy. But for some reason there is no question of depriving the King’s parliamentary powers in the session room! There were colleagues from one faction for depriving the MPs of another faction. So where's the daytime?Oh, my God! Colleagues, who's in shape?Oh, my God! How does it form all of this?Oh, my God! The second question that we demand and constantly demand is a sensory button. Why a Sensor Button? Because each MP must vote on his own, as stated in the Constitution! Do you want to change the Constitution? So learn to do it first. Why should we urge the deputies to obey the law?Oh, my God! In this case, in order to uphold the rule of law, we demand that the sensory button be put to the vote, i.e. that there be a technical possibility to vote on its own. What, and where is this question? Where's the Labazuk bill?Oh, my God! I would like to remind you, yesterday at the briefing, one of the faction leaders, closer to the leadership of the Supreme Council, said that two bills would be put in place today: depriving the Royal MPs and a sensory button so the MPs wouldn't get buttoned up. None of these questions exist. Gentlemen, are we ever gonna start doing our own work? Will we put in laws that have not even passed through the committee? The next question is social legislation. Gentlemen, I understand that when the government says it's an extra burden on the budget. Under this guise, our bill with Victor Timoshenko was rejected -- about increasing the minimum wage, the minimum minimum wage. And please, they said 6.7 billion -- that's too much for the budget. Instead, I think the government has donated the NBU to Russian fascists, a terrorist of 3.9 billion in Crimea. Not that they didn't export, but they didn't burn at least to destroy those funds that were at the NBA's shelter in Crimea. And now they're going to finance the professional regime, the anti-Ukrainian regime. How was that possible? There's no cost here, and there's no cost here. Look who they're funding, refinance the so-called banks. One of the oligarch banks received 15 billion dollars in funding. So there's no 6.7 billion at the minimum of living, but one can be donated. And so on. Gentlemen, there are no social bills here, or if they are, they're fortieths. As much as we're talking about Mishchenka's bill, the legacy, it's going to be real in the country. And what he's like here is a 40-year-old medicine so we don't get to him. So, gentlemen, we have a clear state position: we will only vote for state-owned bills today, without which the state cannot survive, for everyone else, until the issue of the sensory button is asked, that the MPs will no longer be buttoned up, the group will not vote. Only government bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u15	The word is given to Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u16	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! The Economic Development Union requires and invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to focus on the most important issues on which the future of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as a whole depend. Clearly, Ukraine is under unprecedented political, economic, military, information pressure from the Russian Federation. Therefore, it is most important that in matters of statehood, territorial integrity, national security, we do not allow ourselves in the Supreme Council to work on the principles of double standards, not in time to engage in opposition schemes. We fully support the need for the Supreme Council of the Memorandum of Peace, which should focus on the common position of the higher body of the legislative authority of Ukraine, the Supreme Council. But this must be a memorandum in which our will to protect Ukraine, territorial integrity, our condemnation of aggression against Ukraine and the lack of acceptance of presence, I stress, throughout Ukraine, people with weapons who are potential criminals and pose threats to the lives, security of our citizens. In this option, the Economic Development Union clearly supports the Memorandum of Peace. Second, internal risks are increasing. We are paying attention, not only to the Supreme Council, but also to the government, and in general, to the authority that power and responsibility are synonymous. And instead of loud declarations, you have to do a lot of staff work, starting with competitions for the right to engage in the public service. The Anti - Corruption Act requires the availability of registers of those who do not have the right to claim public service, special checks, and youth. And that would have worked instead of these loud statements based on witch hunting and enemy hunting. And this needs to be done immediately, because corrupt structures are being restored, schemes are being restored, and this creates additional risks, including a further drop in society's trust in state and power. We clearly need to unite our efforts and conclude the President's legal and legal elections as a very important stage in the formation of an effective and effective national government in Ukraine. But the fight must be transparent, honest, without dirty technologies. And I'm forced to refute the statement made by the leader of the Faction Party of the Honourable Mr. Klitschek on behalf of the MP, who is part of the "Economic Development" group of Truhan's Gennady Leonidovich, who is the candidate for mayor of Odessa. I'm quoting official help, and I want this included, including the MP's request. In Russian. We asked these questions. Case of the Consulate General of the Russian Federation in Odessa: “The present is certified: according to the General Consulate of the Russian Federation in Odessa, Truhanov Gennady Leonidovic, born 17/01.1965 in Odessa, Ukraine, is not a citizen of the Russian Federation. The acquisition of citizenship in Russia has not been addressed. The passport of a Russian citizen has not been documented.” The case was issued on 19 May 2014 and is valid for six months from the date of issue. Dear colleagues, we'd like to stop these dirty technologies. Only the Ukrainian people, under conditions of fair and transparent political competition, must make their choice. And to the end. Dear colleagues, we would like to ask the MPs to focus their attention on the socio-economic situation. The main directions of fiscal policy for 2015 need to be adopted. It is essential to include a series of laws, 4785, 2124, on the social protection of military personnel. And we insist on this today in the order of our sitting today. Only our will, only our responsibility today, can protect and provide Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given by the Communist faction to the National MP Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u18	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! As you know, on 16 May 2014, after the end of the debates on the First National Channel, gangs were committed against me and my comrades and colleagues, but that fact did not force me to go to the rostrum today and address you. I have been forced to do so by an abrupt, unbridled and unsuspecting lie, which is repeatedly circulated through the media owned or controlled by the governing regime and the narrow circle of media magnates. That is the lie behind the statement by the attackers that the alleged violation of traffic rules by the driver of the vehicle I was in was the reason. Obviously, it was a pre-planned and organized provocation. A provocation aimed at intimidated me as the leader of the political force against the Fascist junta dictatorship. Provocations aimed at intimidating people who disagree with the policy of the ruling regime. Provokings aimed at physically suppressing any dissension and generously paid from the pocket of those who quickened and gave power to this regime, based on ultra-radicals and nationalists. Dear colleagues, it was enough to see the faces of those without masks. Calls for physical execution. When they had beats and threats, blocking a car with only me and three of my comrades, they tried to get inside to understand what fate the junta had prepared for the people of Ukraine. The lighter-mixed bottle was thrown into the car’s rear window, and we were saved only by a miracle and that the bottle was not broken in the car itself. Violence delivered real joy and enjoyment to the attackers, as it did not sound terrible. What happened on 16 May demonstrated once again the political “impotence” of the junta oligarchs, their inability to conduct ideological and social discussions with brains, not with fists, brains, not with bits, brains, not with machine guns. Dear journalists, I'd like to address you. The fact that informational darkness today only increases opposition in Ukrainian society is obvious. But this informational blackout has also led to the loss of entire territories of Ukraine, and to territorial decay, i.e. the loss of territorial integrity, as advocated by the Company of Ukraine. In the name of the triumph of truth and justice, I call upon all of you who have not lost your professional and human conscience, to cease spreading lies, to cease the proliferation of "darks" created in the buds of political technology by the owners of the media, who have monopolized not only the information of the country, but also the stricken private armies of the causes to eliminate the unruly. Friday's break-up in downtown Kiev, the authorities' unwillingness to give an objective assessment of what happened and find the bandits, once again showed that the party's decision to withdraw my candidacy is correct! It is also right because there is a war in the country, Ukraine is divided, and the holding of elections and the election of the President will not help to unite Ukraine and unite the people of Ukraine, but only to deepen these contradictions. We are witnessing with you that various technologies intimidate the Ukrainian people, intimidate them, and fear the entire society today. Moreover, those involved in determining the outcome of a particular electoral process: members of the district commissions. We are with you as witnesses, and that no fact that there were crimes, especially the killings of our citizens, is being investigated until the end, and no forensics are being carried out. The current regime has turned elections into farce, and in such illegal elections we simply have no right to participate. We must calm Ukrainian society today: end the war, change the Constitution, create all prerequisites for the free expression of our citizens during the elections, as well as a political position in the elections by every political force and candidate. We see this as impossible under the current regime, so it will not be possible to say that Ukraine will be calm and peace and harmony after the elections in Ukraine. The tragedy for all of our people, not only for Ukraine, but also for all of Europe, can turn out to be this fascist Sabbath, which has been established by the organizers, sponsors and instigators of Maidan under the pretext of overthrowing one dictatorship and replacing another, more severe, cruel and practical in its activities. We, the Communists, today stand in the position of the territorial integrity of our country, today we call for the unification of the people of Ukraine and for the development of proposals that will enable today to address specific issues for the future of the country and for the future of our people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u19	From the nonfractional word Oleg Lazko is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u20	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I'd like to draw your attention to a hysterical and, at the same time, historic video address called the Arrow, a Russian officer, a diverter, a terrorist who runs Russian terrorists on Donbas. During the days, he wrote down a video that acknowledged a number of very important things. First, he said that there were no men on Donbas ready to fight and enroll in his army, and he urged women to join his army. This eunuch, this "Strilock" is powerless, he decided to lead the Grand Battalion, because it turns out that the men on Donbassa who are willing to fight for the schizophrenic ideas of the country's split, who are willing to split up the country, destroy it, don't. And this is the best news in Ukraine today. There is no basis for terrorism on Donbassa that wants to fight on Donbassa among the locals. Ukrainian men living in Donbas want peace, they want good, they want peace in their families, and so they do not respond to the call of terrorists to fill the ranks of the terrorist organization of the Donetské and Lugansk Republic. And this should be given to our army to the famous, our forces that failed to implement the Moscow civil war scenario in Ukraine on the Syrian script. There is no civil war in Ukraine, there is no civil war, there is no war! And the terrorists who came here to carry us with their weapons are called peace. We'll destroy them all and get them out of our country. And the peaceable people of Donbas, who are millions, do not want to fight today. And I'd like to have another one. Attention to another story is last night's speech by Rinat Ahmtova, who is considered the richest, most authoritative man on Donbas. At last, Ahmetov realized that taking half a position was losing everything. Yesterday, Ahmethov called for an action against the terrorists. I think it's going to have an impact, and I think if the terrorists don't find them buried under the asphalt, they'll be in the mines somewhere. That's their destiny! Because whoever came to us with a gun must die here. And the peaceful people of Donbas must work, live, enjoy their peaceful heavens and strong families, and shed blood and tears on Donbassa and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u21	Thank you. For the lineup, one minute, please, Hanna Herman, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u22	Dear friends! I'd like to address not just all of you right now, but all of Ukraine. Today at exactly 12 o'clock, Donetsk will be protested by a short warning strike against separatism, against the Donetsk so-called republic of tens of thousands of workers and miners. All Ukraine must support them. Every Ukrainian has to stop at 12 for one minute and say, "I'm with Donbas miners for Donbas in the only independent Ukraine!" And we have to go here in Parliament to meet these miners, these conscious Ukrainian patriots, and adopt the laws that are so much needed today by the regions, in particular the laws on decentralization, the special status of the Russian language, about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u24	that people have the opportunity to leave much of the money they collect out of taxes to develop regions. Let's support Donbas, let's support Ukraine! And I believe we will win, Ukraine will win.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u25	Dear friends, I think we will support working Donbas, who is the only independent, Sunday Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on the order of the day. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I wish to inform you that the National Security and Defence Committee has finalized the draft Law on Amendments to Article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons (registration 2124). Please include in the agenda for adoption as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u27	Dear friends, this is about pensions in the event of a loss of a breadwinner. This is very important and relevant for our Armed Forces, for the forces that are protecting Ukraine today. There is a proposal -- it's a short law -- that we now give the floor to the committee representative, Mr. Greenewecki, to inform him very briefly and we vote. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. Please, Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The purpose of adopting this law is to create a level playing field for the equalization of pensions among family members of the deceased, deceased military personnel and civil servants appointed under the Ukrainian Act on State Service and on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, as well as the realization by such citizens of their constitutional rights as provided for in article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The second reading of the bill is followed by one proposal that is included. The implementation of this draft law requires additional funding. These costs include 29,000 767 persons who are currently receiving a single pension, and 293 persons who receive a pension for two dependants. A total of 30,000, 60 persons. For 58 persons who receive a pension for three dependants, it will remain 40 percent. At the same time, the number of persons who are assigned a pension in the event of a loss of a caregiver is clarified annually. The bill is proposed to be put into effect on January 1, 2015. The Committee welcomes the idea of the bill and shares the proposal of the author of the legislative initiative to ensure the proper level of social protection of family members of deceased, deceased military personnel. Members of the committee therefore unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the committee and vote. No objections? An important issue that applies to the families of the fallen military. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's proposal and to vote on Bill 2124 as a basis and as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:52:24]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a statement from the faction of the Party of Regions and Communists. They insist on taking a break. I want to ask the representatives of the Party of the Regions: can we give you an opportunity to make an application? Dear colleagues, now! Colleagues, I can't, by the Rules, deny factions in their right to recess. But we're calling it a break, let's say, 15 minutes. At 11 o'clock, 10 minutes, we'll continue our work in Parliament. I ask you, fellow believers, not to depart; we will soon find out in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council the issues on which opposition officials insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u30	We're continuing our work. I ask the members of the Secretariat to make announcements so that all the deputies can meet in the session hall because they are accustomed to having our council agreeing to go in an hour after two hours. We agreed to deal with all the questions in 15 minutes. So please, Your Honor, let's go to the hall. Please announce to the faction leaders the congregation. Because we now have a lot of important issues related to the organization and the holding of presidential elections and economic issues, the economic security of our country, and other important issues that have already been discussed in Parliament and on which we hope to make effective decisions. Please, break initiators are a faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u31	Fellow Members, Parliament has begun the process of convergence. And now faction leaders have agreed to finalize the text of the memorandum of peace and harmony offered by our colleague Novinski. And we hope that by 12 o'clock we will have a joint text that will be voted by Parliament to show to society that we are ready for reconciliation, that we are ready for dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the questions involved in the organization and the holding of elections, including the quality of the organization and the results of the elections. I ask you, Your Honor, let's not lose the vote now, listen to the Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, who submits the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase the responsibility for the violation of the electoral rights of citizens), the registration number of the project, I recall, number 4741. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the faction leaders, including the Freedom faction, always disciplined, and now I don't see anything half-faction in the session room. Please, Your Honor, we need to make a decision right now. I am convinced that there are no people in the room who are against the responsibility, and the strict responsibility, of violating the electoral rights of citizens. I propose to the National Deputies now to determine how to get into the agenda and how to get into the agenda, first of all, the sessions of this law: 4741. Please refer to Ariev’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the electoral process is very important. And I think my colleague, Alexander Kuzmuk, will support me in the fact that we are obliged to immediately include and consider today's 4785 bill, which regulates the order of saving jobs for the mobilized in the reserve of the Ukrainian army. And this has to be done urgently, because people are getting fired. 4785. I ask you very much, Alexander Valentine's Day, and I think that Alexander Kuzmuk, my colleague, will also insist on the inclusion of this bill, is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, I support this proposal. And I propose, Alexander Ivanovich, we will now consider in this block. Now, I've already announced the question, after that we'll include 4785. Because we always have defense issues in the high-priority legislation. Dear colleagues, I ask the Supreme Council to support the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4741: amending the Criminal Code (to increase responsibility for violations of the electoral rights of citizens). Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:20:36]] For 186 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 5, 56 – Fatherland, Impact 22, Economic Development – 27, Sovereign European Ukraine – 23, 22 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 31 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I don't feel the mood of MPs. Not all of them made it. My colleagues, we need to get there. Once again, I ask the Secretariat to announce in all the towers that everyone will immediately meet in the decision-making room. As long as our colleagues are meeting, we will return to that question. Immediately following the initiative announced by the national deputy Ariev, supported by the committee of profile and planned to report by Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, please ask your colleagues to support the inclusion in the agenda of Law 4785. Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[11:21:49]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Is this a day-to-day inclusion or is that a second reading? Please, Alexander Ivanovich, let us know.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to focus and consider this law. This law was adopted as a whole in the first reading. But every day we get out of the task. We don't do -- we just do the talking, the social protection of our rehabilitated people. I ask you to come back and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u36	Alexander Ivanovich, the only thing I need right now, and I would ask my colleague not to misinformation Parliament. This law does not need to be included because it is already considered in the first reading. There is an offer to accept it as a whole. No objections? No objections? We're backing it up. Is there any change? Dear colleagues, then. Alexander Ivanovich, wait. Let's do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, colleagues, to follow the Rules. I can't stop them from having that right. Please, Alexander Ivanovich. Very short information, and we make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, you and I accepted him on our first reading, taking him as a basis. During this time, 24 offers were made. Of these, 17 are fully accounted for. What's more, I'm protocolly making an offer. For the purpose of removing social tension in society in part three, in part six of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization, article 6 reads the first reading of the word ". as well as citizens who own means of transport" exclude. It's your offer, everyone else's included. I'm asking you very much, and I'm asking you to accept it now as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, is anyone insisting on their amendment? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. Oksana Prodan, do you insist? Alexander. Please, Alexander Ivanovich, on the rostrum. There will be questions for you and when there will be adjustments. Colleagues, this is an important question, let's really support our military. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u39	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, cars down. I am very grateful that Mr. Kuzmuk was put on repair and was able to say that citizens will not have their cars removed. I want to talk about the 15th amendment that envisions the rights of entrepreneurs, just like all citizens, with regard to labour legislation, in terms of. They're mobilized for military service. I ask you to support this amendment, 15th Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u40	I got you, I got you. And your colleague Hinka was on our committee, all your corrections are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one insists on repairs anymore? Don't insist. So, honourable colleagues, 4785 is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve defence-mobilization issues during mobilization. This is primarily about the protection of military personnel who are called upon to serve to preserve their jobs and their ability to return to peaceful life without any restrictions or problems. Dear colleagues, there is a request to support the entire draft Law 4785. Please vote. [[11:25:57]] For 222 Dear colleagues. By factions, please, the Party of Regions is only 4, 71 - Fatherland, 22 - Impact, 32 - Economic Development, 27 - "European Sovereign Ukraine", "Freedom" - 30, 0 - Company, 36 - non-fractional. Please turn on Victor Pinzenic's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! The strike faction insists that we stop this mode of work. The problem is not that we are not prepared to uphold this law. Allow the MPs to see what they are voting on, do not put to the vote laws that they have not seen, which are not in order of the day. That's the reason. Dear colleagues, well, we were handed over a document providing for the confiscation of Ukrainian cars. How can you vote like that without familiarizing yourself with the documents? Let the MPs know about the documents - then put them to a vote after lunch, for example.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u43	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u44	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! I'm having a lot of meetings with people right now. You may have no idea what it is like to associate with our wives, with the mothers of our heroes who are now fighting for Ukraine's independence on the eastern front against terrorists and against separatists. They ask us by Christ God not to delay, to make the decisions that are needed for our officers today, for our soldiers, and for their families. It's about tax vacations, it's about not allowing our war heroes to work, it's about being able to restructure and pay off their loans. That's exactly what they need right now. In the second reading, we already accept that question. I ask you very much, today all Ukraine needs a solution. We'll go on there, we'll improve this law. Let's vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! National deputy Ariev, please turn on the microphone. We'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, in times of war, we demand that we fully follow bureaucratic procedures. I'm sorry, it's wrong, at least. I urge you: let's support it. Honorable fellow workers, have a conscience! No one will release you because you work and are protected by the Constitution of Ukraine, and by the laws of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine, "On the Status of the People's Deputy". Soldiers who today owe their debt to the Fatherland are released. And let's not stick to the procedure, let's help these people. First of all, a conscience must be given! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u47	Thank you. National MP, please, Rudzkowski. Then there's Zarubinsky, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u48	My fellow Members, I believe that we must leave the interests of the common people, not the political interests. Mothers have no desire to watch their children be called to military service, do not want, do not want women to let their husbands go. But if the Supreme Council has already made such a decision, it must provide a social package for these families to feel protected. We have to make sure that people get back to work, we have to make sure that their apartments aren't taken away, eventually. And that's the law we have to pass. But we must also make decisions today to stop the war that is now taking place in the eastern regions of Ukraine. Let's talk today about what decisions we can make in order to end the war, because we're holding round tables, a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u49	Thank you. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! My colleagues ’ counsel reminds me of the teacher’s counsel when he reads those students who are in the classroom for those who are missing. Do you understand? So he's saying that they're so bad and so on. Who are you talking to? To those who vote? Those who are in the real room are voting. Therefore, please contact your colleagues who are absent and do so not necessarily in the session room. Go to them, your colleagues, and so on. And one more moment, Alexander Valentine's Day, purely technical. Deputy Nechiporenko just came up to me and said, "I haven't been able to vote," "Why?" – "Because you're suddenly declaring a vote." I say as I say. You don't know the experience in Europe, in the United States. It is announced that there will be a vote on such a bill, given a certain number of minutes. In the United States it's 10 minutes, you know. They're coming. And you can see Nechiporenko is ready to vote, but he wasn't, because he didn't make it. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u51	I see the hand of the People's Chamberlain. He confirms his desire and inspiration to vote. Yes or no? Dear colleagues, I beg of you now. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are not discussing this law. There were lines, I gave it a chance to talk. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you, my fellow Members, to now support and adopt this bill as a whole. I'm speaking slowly, as a whole, draft law, please, No.4785. Please, Your Honor, support this project and vote in general. Please vote. With respect to the amendments. [[11:32:01]] For 224 The factions, please. Region Party – 4, 71 – Fatherland, Impact – 24, 31 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, 30 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 36. Dear colleagues, I think we have today an opportunity to return to this question. Now let's go to work in a day's work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I will not break the faction! Take it easy! We'll be back. There'll be a proposal for deputies. We'll go back to that. Dear colleagues! Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u52	Respectable Society! If there were real peace and quiet right now, maybe we shouldn't have to vote in the force majeure system. But let's do it. We have no right to get out of here until we adopt those two-pronged bills that are necessary for our heroes who are fighting in vain on the eastern front of Ukraine. I'm asking you all to do this! We're parliamentarians, we have a huge responsibility today for what's going on there. And I don't think that any small, principled amendments that some people want to make to this bill are more important than voting in general. That is why, on the one hand, I ask, and on the other hand, I insist, Mr. Head, once again to vote for the return to the vote and to vote on this bill as a whole. It is very and very much needed today for our common victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u53	Please turn on the microphone of the head of the profile committee of Lithuania Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u54	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! It's a shame and a shame that we're here calling for the support of the military, we're putting this bill -- and we're not voting. I have to say that on the committee we discussed this bill in detail. One of the representatives was our colleague, Hinka, from the party, the strike faction. We've agreed on all positions. He agreed with those works that have a clear and compromise character. The language does not say that someone will confiscate the transport. These positions have been removed. So I propose: let's not show our position, vote for this decision. Keep going. Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, can't be so chaotic as to ask questions. Well, there was an offer: let's put all the bills that apply to the Ukrainian arms organization, and let's make a decision, let's move on. We jump, we don't know what decision we're making, we refuse. And I think that's also one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, once again it was the invitation of the members of the Supreme Council to start law on defence issues. And it's these two first questions that we're looking at right now. I say again, my dear colleagues, everyone, and not just in the hall and on the balcony and those who are looking at the material about our meeting -- everyone understands what the law is about. I'm asking you, dear fellows, let's not, let's say, lie about making decisions. There is a political decision – that is, we make it. There are warnings - please announce them. I don't hear any warnings about this law here. At the same time, I see that individual factions do not vote in favour of this law. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! So our group, for example, is ready to support the idea of the bill itself. But we need to explain. See, this bill foresees that those who are mobilized keep their jobs and keep their wages. The question is, who pays for this salary? If he is an employer, it turns out that he has a person who is supposed to work who is mobilized, and he pays that salary. If this state compensates for this salary, of course we must support this bill. If we put more pressure on employers and leave them alone with this problem, we should anticipate it in the law and regulate it before we vote. So let the authors explain this. And I think you're going to add at least 10 to 15 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u57	Please explain my position to include Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, when adopted in the first draft of this bill, we emphasized the attention of the people's deputies to the fact that the social rights of all those who are mobilized are protected, including pensions, including wages, including a certain order of credit. So all of these things we've already considered, prescribed and agreed on. Those 14 amendments that we made and agreed to, they completely improved the bill. There's nothing to improve. I'm assuming that maybe in a month, two of us will have to make some adjustments. Today, we need to accept it as a whole. Thank you and please!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u59	Please turn on the microphone for repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, this bill deals with the question of who will pay the mobilized costs. The current legislation provides that employment is preserved and that the wage is reserved for employers. This bill, thanks to all the amendments that have been made, foresees that the State will be able to pay the salaries of the mobilized. Reimbursement payments. So if we don't vote now, they're going to pay the businessmen. If we vote, the state will compensate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, once again, I'm the only one asking the strike faction to vote for the law. Not just commenting on it. Please! Not the whole faction. Can I make the law now? Please, Hanna Herman wants to uphold this law and vote for it. Please turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, why don't we vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u62	Surely, Mr. Head, we will support all that is involved in the relief and improvement of life for our people, including the military. Above all, however, laws must be adopted that will allow for an end to war and bloodshed. Because that's half the measure. We need to approach the matter in principle. To approve decisions that will permanently end the bloodshed and then facilitate the lives of our military and build an army.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, please, dear colleagues, let us vote. Because replicas are not replicas, instead of making decisions we continue to discuss. The situation has become so clear that there is nothing we can do but vote. Please, Your Honor, return to making a decision on this matter. Please, Your Honor, support this proposal and return to the consideration of the matter in the second reading. Please. 4785 – please support the return to this question. [[11:40:56]] For 244 Decision taken. I'm begging you.), honourable national deputies, now support the proposal and preside over the law as a whole. I'll remind you again of registration number 4785, please vote. [[11:41:27]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now moving to a cluster of issues related to the presidential elections that will take place on May 25, that is, by the end of this week. Dear colleagues, please support and include in the agenda so that we can consider this issue immediately, because there is virtually no time left for its implementation, 4741 registration number is the draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for violations of the electoral rights of citizens). Please, Your Honor, back up. It's going to hit very hard on any false attempt. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. [[11:42:26]] For 224 Dear colleagues, well, I say again, I don't understand. By factions, please show me. A party of regions is 0, so forgeries may be interested in this party. Please 71 – "Fatherhood", 26 – "SHOCK", 31 – "Economic development", "North European Ukraine" – 29, 29 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, is there any point in putting the vote again?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u64	I'm asking everyone, I'm convinced that all those interested in having an honest election and that those who try to forge try to pressure the electorate get what they deserve. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of 4741 in the agenda. For the last time, I won't go back to that. Please vote. [[11:43:29]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[11:43:48]] For 202 Decision taken. Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of Deputy Interior Minister Chebotar Sergey Ivanovich. Very briefly, Sergey Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u65	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Internal Affairs to ensure the protection of the electoral rights of citizens, to increase responsibility for their violations, to introduce international experience into national legislation, and to prevent repetition of negative consequences in subsequent elections and referendums. As a result of a series of changes to the Criminal Code of Ukraine for criminal offences against the electoral rights of citizens, the separate articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine were significantly reduced compared to the 2001 edition of the Code. Yes, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Elections of the President of Ukraine of 21 August 2009, which was recognised by the unconstitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 19 October 2009 as number 26, was presented in a separate article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in a new edition, according to which the sanctions of certain parts of criminal offences against electoral rights were crimes of small and medium gravity. Such humanization of criminal legislation and unjustifiablely mild criminal punishment have led to an active illegal influence in the election of citizens, which has a negative impact on political processes in the state. The project envisages the extension of criminal offences for offences against the electoral rights of citizens and the strengthening of the responsibility of individual articles of the Criminal Code, the imposition of criminal responsibility for the adoption of proposals, the promise or the receipt by the elector of undue benefit, the commission or failure of any action related to the direct implementation of his voting rights or voting rights. The adoption of the bill will help protect the electoral rights of citizens, strengthen the responsibility for their violations, and allow the police to carry out operational investigations into criminal conduct of qualified criminal offences against the electoral rights of citizens. The implementation of this draft law does not require additional spending on the state budget of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Head of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Kožemyakin, law - enforcement activities, Kozemyakin Andrija Anatoliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u67	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Everything Sergey Ivanovich has said, I will not repeat. Indeed, Bill 4741 is designed to ensure the protection of the electoral rights of citizens. In general, the committee has fully supported this bill and proposes that the Supreme Council take the floor and vote in general. The only thing I'd like to point out is that in the first part of article 160, where there are these words, "the constituency voter's bribe." draft law. The words "independent on the actual will of the person and the result of the vote" should be deleted, since they bear no legal burden, the more the content of a person's will is forbidden valid legislation. This is part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. So, my fellow Members, I think that a bill that amends articles 157, 158, 158-1, 159, 160 of the Criminal Code is necessary for the citizens' will to be honest, fair and in the country elected by the people is a worthy president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? There is a desire to discuss. Please sign up, please, 2 for, 2 for. The word is given to the people’s deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! We are now faced with an extremely serious choice, an extremely dangerous situation. All, without exception, Ukrainian citizens in the East, in the Centre of the Country, in the West, in the South, everywhere, in every village, in every city, realize that the great letter, the beginning, the start of the crisis in Donbassa will be the election of the new president of the country. We will restore a clear, rigid, effective vertical of power. Our efforts will be subjective. The country's leader will represent Ukraine in international negotiations and will be able to demand, including international co-operation, effective sanctions against the aggressor country. Similarly, it can build a real meaningful dialogue in the country, and it will force the Supreme Council not to "fertilize" successive declarations and papers, but to work in detail daily on the start of economic reforms, and it will be able to bring our country out into the leaders of Europe. Therefore, our political power certainly supports these changes that will protect the country from falsifications that have been fabricated, produced by the Yanukovic regime and mafia, particularly in Parliament. At the same time, I would like to pay attention, using the opportunity, to the power block of the government of the country, to the challenges and dangers that are present today in the border regions of our state. A few hours ago, I returned from Sum, where the head of the district department, the district center of the political party, Sergey Mikolaiovich Lichman, was kidnapped. During the white day, a human head of the presidential election headquarters of the candidate Peter was kidnapped in the courtyard in front of people’s eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u72	Half a minute, finish the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u73	Head of the pre-election headquarters, Peter Alexiyovich Dustenka. I want to say on behalf of my faction and the democratic forces of the entire country's parliament: we will not be intimidated by these things, we will fight and we will win, no attempt to destroy our desires and the sure steps aimed at stabilizing the situation in the country, you will not get out. We demand that the force block form a command immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, five more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u75	It's important, I'm sorry. ..form a powerful team, go out into the area - and investigate the case immediately. The efforts of the local forces are not enough. This is a challenge for the whole country, and we must respond harshly to it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u76	Thank you. The word is given to the People’s Deputy of Peace. He's handing over Andrew Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u77	Dear Society, the adoption of this bill is extremely urgent in today’s situation, and it is important that this project is proposed. In particular: to increase sanctions for violations of the electoral rights of citizens and to ensure that criminal offences are in line with the European Union's law. The excessive increase in sanctions for individual offences, primarily committed by a member of the electoral commission, the referendum commission and a group of individuals, will allow for the conduct of operational investigations in criminal conduct in respect of qualified criminal offences against the electoral rights of citizens. It is proposed that the responsibility for the crimes of the electoral process be increased, that false information be given to the electoral registry, and that more than once be put to the vote. The adoption of the project will help to ensure the protection of the electoral rights of citizens, to strengthen accountability for their offences, to prevent the recurrence of negative consequences in the next elections and referendums, to bring Ukraine's legislation closer to EU legislation. In view of the above, Freedom considers it necessary to adopt this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Stojko gives the floor to the National Deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u79	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear voters, honourable colleagues, above all, we had cases of fair elections, and this acknowledged the European partnership, but these days passed with the past regime. And now the reoccurrences of this regime -- the militants are armed, the situation in the East -- force us to do everything we can to keep the election results from being stolen. So, of course, one day we'll go back to normal legislation that predicts that all people are honest and simply go to elections and vote. And now we have to assume that the heads of the district commissions in the eastern areas are being stolen, and the members of the district commissions are facing direct threats. There are self - proclaimed governments that have said that if anyone comes here from you, the honourable inhabitants of the Slavonic and Kramitarian Vote, we will hang you and shoot you. That's what reality is now being touched by Ukraine, and we, as responsible politicians, should be able to prevent such a scenario, including by introducing responsibility for the destruction of the ballot box. The law correctly states: 7 years, or 10 years; destroyed the box -- sit down for 10 years; offered to sell the vote -- sit down for 3 years; took the ballot paper out of the office, and then gave it to some barrister who wants to buy the election -- sit down for 3 years. The other way out now is that people who are unclean want to distort the will of honest people simply don't. So the government just in time, and perhaps with some delay, has now passed this bill, because the bandits who want to break the election with machine guns and the Greeks who are raising their heads again in Kiev and who want to buy the vote of the sneezes again in Greece must be punished.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! It has just been said that the government passed the bill in time. No, not on time. Too late. Because if we accept it today, Alexander Turchinov will sign it, there will be a few days left for the election, and a media signal to the electorate, including those who will make bribes, bribes, and so on. Well, people who know that come at least in 10 or 14 days. And some in three weeks. Sadly, then, the right decision, which we are likely to make today, is far from coming to everyone. But this does not mean that we should not react. And one more moment, I can't help but say. It was said that once, when people are honest, we will take these standards away. It doesn't happen. In Germany, heavy fines were initially imposed on someone to switch to red light, and then they became accustomed to the fact that they could not switch to red light. So right culture -- it doesn't fall from the top. And if the subject of the legislative initiative has proposed a sufficiently strict and strict standard of manifestly violating electoral rights, it is good. And you don't have to go anywhere. They have to stay. So I don’t understand why all my colleagues are tying this bill to the presidential elections that are about to take place. This should include all elections, including elections to local authorities, where there is no less bribery, you know where the temptation is no less to be elected, such as by the deputies of some city councils. More willing than the Supreme Council. You know that. Especially the capitals and other cities. So I think it's worth supporting this bill. But I'd like to. Well, let the time come when not a single article will change when a serious, aggregated, universal bill is introduced, to which we will give the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've discussed this. Everyone in the presentations supported the adoption of this law. I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. We don't feel like in the United States (there was a proposal) to announce what happens in 10 minutes. I ask all deputies once more to take their seats. We don't have 10 minutes to wait until you're ready to vote. We need to work quickly and, importantly, effectively. So please, colleagues! Attention! Please support Project 4741 on amending the Criminal Code (to increase responsibility for violations of the electoral rights of citizens) as a basis and as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor! [[11:58:40]] For 223 Dear colleagues, who didn't make it? Fellows, I say once again, those who are now watching through the "Council" channel, as the sessionary session takes place, will be disrespectful to us, dear colleagues. By factions, please, what factions do we want to fake? Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 73, Impact – 27, 23 – Economic Development, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 29 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 43. I beg of you, Your Honor, this applies to all of us. It's about the election. I agree with Oleg Zarubinsky, not only with the presidential -- all the elections: both with the local councils, and with the parliament -- all of them. You have to put up a block once and for all to try even to fake an election. Please come back to that question. Colleagues, please vote for a return to this question. Colleagues, then you'll say again that you haven't been able to press the buttons. Attention! On the gallery, please! Please support a return to this question. Please vote. [[11:59:59]] For 228 At the border. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this project as a whole. Please, dear colleagues, mobilize, please. [[12:00:28]] For 221 Colleagues, well, it's just, you know, insolent. It's just not solid and it's not serious. The factions, please. The group of regions is 1, 79 Fatherland, 27, 12 Economic Development. Dear colleagues, I say again. Let's fake the election. 28 – "North European Ukraine", 30 – "Freedom", The Company – 0, non-fractional – 44. I'm asking the representative of Economic Development to give us a microphone. Please turn on the microphone for the people’s deputy Jeremiah. I'm sorry, Anatoly Kinacha, I apologize. I respect "North European Ukraine," yes. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u83	I'm not asking for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u84	Colleagues, I'm addressing everyone, primarily members of the coalition. Please support this project by voting. It's important for us to accept it today, or he won't be able to work, this law, before the presidential election. Colleagues, can we go back?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u85	Please, I'm asking Igor Jeremeyev's people's MP to turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u86	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! An extremely important law for the Ukrainian people and for order in the electoral system. The "Supreme European Ukraine" faction has supported this law in its entirety and calls for other factions to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, offer, please. I say again, colleagues, I don't want to break Parliament. But there are cases where Parliament must show character and must make decisions that are responsible. I ask you to come back to this question again. [[12:02:45]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1.78 – Fatherland, 27 – Impact, 20 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 30 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 41. Dear colleagues, there will be a desire - we will return to this question. Dear colleagues, we are now considering the next cluster of issues that are also related to the issue of fair and transparent elections. These are two draft laws: 4905 and 4892. In fact, when we accept 4905 with you, he takes into account the proposals that Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk made in his project 4892. But for us to look at them, we need to incorporate 20 laws into the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of these two laws in the agenda so that we can consider them. Please vote. [[12:03:53]] For 229 Decision taken. Please, I give the floor to the Head of the Committee on State Building of Zwania David Važajevich. As he prepares, please support the simplified procedure for addressing these two issues. [[12:04:16]] For-195 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's work without interruptions. For the consideration of this block. After that, the MPs will insist, we'll take a break. Please, David Vajaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The bill contains three technical amendments. First. If necessary, the composition of the VAT may increase to 18 persons at the head of the appropriate district election committee on the basis of proposals made by the members of the committee. That's because we basically made a decision with you, and the minimum number is 9. But some presidential candidates are getting out of the race. They stay in the bulletin, but their representatives are writing a statement and leaving the board. In order for all the commissions to work fully, this amendment is accepted in principle. And one more question. Where there are large areas, 9 members are too few to ensure quality conduct. That's why we have this correction. Another repair. In case it is not possible to pass electoral ballots from CLK to KLK and from KLK to KLK. The corresponding electoral ballots are considered to be used and paid off by the Central Electoral Commission by transferring them to the manufacturing company for which the relevant act is made up. So the procedure remains the same as it is, in principle, and the commission works the same way on the ballot papers and after payment. But in these elections, you know that a lot of ballot papers are going to be unused, and the procedure for cutting off the left corner on the ballot box, which happens manually, can just interfere with the counting of votes. So, in principle, there are no technological issues here, it's a physical question, so that, in principle, the commission can effectively, quickly destroy all ballot papers that will not be used and determine the results of the elections. And the third question. Elections from the number of military and head or government officers who carry out assignments at temporary locations in the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u90	shall be included in the updated electoral lists at the usual polling stations on the day of the vote for the submission of the commanders of the respective units in the order established by the Central Election Commission. For the voters included in the exact list of voters for such submission, a document confirming the citizenship of Ukraine and providing a basis for obtaining an electoral ballot and can be used in a normal constituency, is a Ukrainian citizen's passport, a service certificate or a military ticket. We have the conclusion of the Chief Science and Technology Administration, of course, supporting these proposals. And this morning we held a committee -- and the committee unanimously supported this proposal. I'm addressing the faction of "Regions" first. I know that there is a decision not to vote, but even though the members of the committee who participated, I ask you to add their votes, because these are completely practical changes that allow you to conduct the election procedure in a qualitative manner. Thank you, Your Honor. Please support in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u91	Do you understand the offer of a committee, Your Honor? Got it. Please let us hear from Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk right away. I don't see him. Dear colleagues, I will comment briefly. His law applies only to one of the three standards mentioned by David Zwania, namely, the right of military officials to vote, not on a passport, but on a military ticket, which they always have with them. So when we adopt the first law, the rule introduced by the Kuzmuk People's Deputy is actually going into effect right now. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to discuss matters. Let me remind you, we are. Alexander Ivanovich, I have already commented on the law. Please sign up for the performance. David Vajaevich, it's okay. Let's do it now. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u92	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. I'd like to officially address the Communists and the Party of the Regions. The fate of the country is now being resolved. I understand very well, like millions of Ukrainian citizens, that you need to save your skin now in a polytechnological way, to get into some kind of position. But I want to tell you that this position of yours, anti-Ukrainian and thoughtless, shortsighted, it won't give you a rating. People will hate you even more. You must stop being an opposition to the Ukrainian people today. Give me a few votes, after all. Maybe one of you will have a conscience -- and he'll remember that he has a cross on his body besides his passport. He will think of thousands of people who die because of Parliament’s inaction, especially because of the inaction to which you push him by your nonvoting. The other one. Mr. Head, I'm making a proposal: not just to work without interruptions today, but to the full consideration of all of them, especially those not voted on because of the absence of MPs. We must do everything we can today to save the country from lawlessness. Imagine how many hundreds of millions, tens of millions of rubles, and dollars will be used to rob the Ukrainian elections! They're not just going to bribe to vote for impenetrable candidates, they're going to bribe for it, or people aren't going to vote at all. We will save Ukraine with the continued work of the Council – it is our responsibility!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u93	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u94	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, the point is that time is not on the town. These are all skeptics, by the way, who say that we can take electoral legislation once and for all for many years in any way, is all Utopia in Ukrainian reality. Today's example, exactly, is a testimony to that. So I want to tell you that even the bill that is currently under consideration, unfortunately, is still in need of an adjustment, literally, just as the Central Election Commission has been consulted and there is a proposal to complete it with a new edition or to present certain articles in a new edition. For example, in article 73, the first part is to complete with a new paragraph of this content: "In the event that it is not possible for the district election committee to pass electoral ballots, such ballots are returned to the Central Electoral Commission, (the factory-producer) for destruction. An act is involved in the transfer of ballot papers for destruction. Election ballots are destroyed by the manufacturing company in the presence of representatives of the Central Electoral Commission and the control committee, established by the Central Election Commission in accordance with part eight of article 71 of this Act, which is the subject of the relevant act." Part three, complete with a new paragraph of the following content: "In the event that it is impossible to pass electoral ballots to the district electoral commission, the district electoral commission shall constitute the act in accordance with the form established by the CWC. Such ballots shall be returned immediately after the day of the vote by the District Election Commission of the Central Electoral Commission for the Manufacturing Enterprise in the second part of the first part of the order set out in the paragraph." Part nine of article 83 of the Act should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: "On the inability to calculate the votes of voters in a polling station where no vote was taken, on the day of the vote, in accordance with the requirements of article 76 or 77 of this Act, or on the failure of the VAT Protocol to calculate the votes of voters due to the inability to vote on the VAT, the District Election Commission shall decide on the establishment of the relevant fact. Such a decision shall be added to the minutes of the District Electoral Commission on the sums of the voting within the territorial constituency and shall be sent to the Central Election Commission in the order and schedule provided for in article 28 of this Act. In the absence of the necessary number of members of the electoral commission for adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u95	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u96	The decision to establish the relevant fact shall consist of an act which shall be added to the minutes of the District Electoral Commission on the sums of the votes within the territorial constituency, and shall be sent to the Central Electoral Commission without delay through an automated informational system." The last paragraph of part two of article 84 of the Act should be supplemented by the following new sentences: "The failure to establish the sums of voting within a separate territorial constituency of the Central Election Commission takes a decision." Thank you. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u97	Please, National Deputy Osuhovski. I'll finally give the committee's head a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Alexia Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, there is no secret to anyone that any election that takes place in Ukraine: whether it is presidential or parliamentary – this is a moment of truth and a moment of trial first for the Ukrainian people. And it was no exception to these presidential elections when, in fact, Ukraine is in a state of war conducting its democratic choice. What choice does it have to be, whether it's to remain a Soviet, or really become a European country. And unfortunately, in some regions of Ukraine, with the help of, or let's say, not without the help of some national MPs and whole factions, they're going to try to overthrow these elections -- the elections that are now being held for the future of our state. So our faction will definitely support this bill, and the next, because now it's important to keep peace in Ukraine. The main thing is that we really need to take a position in the European development of our nation. We support these changes that must now be made to the existing legislation in order to prevent, first and foremost, the collapse of the election of the President of Ukraine. Our faction will definitely support it, and so do we support those proposals that Ruslan Knyazevich read. We're going to vote yes in full. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u100	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Highly esteemed David Vážajevich said that these were technical adjustments. These are really basic things, these aren't technical adjustments. Why are they principled? Because the first position in the bill is to make it impossible for one of the technology to break the election by deliberately withdrawing its candidacy at the last minute by one or a group of candidates and responding accordingly to a number of members of the commission so that there is no quorum. Is that a technical correction? This is the right, principled position, correction. But I have two questions. Apparently, David Vazievich will be able to answer them. So when it's suggested in the second position that the CEVC be able to destroy the ballots if it's impossible to pass them on to the appropriate district or district election committees, where elections cannot be held, I have a question, maybe the head of the committee will answer: who determines where these ballots cannot be passed, who will determine which body: the central electoral commission and so on? Because there are potential abuses, you know, not to send them somewhere on purpose. David Vajaevich, I'm not done speaking yet. And I have a third question. It says here that in addition to passports and military tickets for military personnel, it is possible to present, in order to issue ballots, in one version, service certificates, in another version of the law, personal certificates. What does that mean? What are some personal credentials? They're not just military personnel, they're not, maybe they're a factory pass, maybe they're a military pass. I'd like you to clarify. Thank you. The bill is correct in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u102	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we make a decision, let us give the floor to the head of the committee. And in one minute, please, the Communists and the Miroshnichenko People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, a few questions have been answered. I said, in principle, the decision to destroy the ballot papers is made by a commission that is constantly working in the CBC, it's created, it's constantly working on the ballots. And the same commission under the same procedure. The point is that today there is still a huge number of ballots in the CLTC that are not passed on to the VLK. In several KLAs, there's a huge amount that they got, but they can't pass it on to DVC. This applies in principle to two areas: Lugansk and Donetsk. And we're essentially thinking here that this number might be -- a few million ballots that will remain unused. Manually cut off the corner, left corner, it's technically impossible, it'll take weeks. So that's absolutely it. And the same commission that's in charge of the ballots, it makes up acts throughout the vertical passage of these documents, so there's virtually no possibility of falsification or manipulation because it's both formed and continuing its work. It's just a technical question. As for your personal identification question. There's no ID, there's a service license. Service licenses because there are in principle units that have no military ticket: they are employees of the BSS who have service permits; they are coworkers of other departments who have a service licence but do not have a military ticket. That's why we came up with this. That is, only those who perform their duties today in the ATO process are involved. And, dear colleagues, the amendment of Mr. Knazevitch. It's true, the CBC's offer, it sounded yesterday. We discussed it on the committee. All day long, we've been confiding with CBC members, with all the CBCs. This is a technical question that one of the members has raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u104	Allow me to finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u105	This amendment doesn't change anything, it doesn't add anything. It's such legal fiction, in principle. In principle, this is the desire of one person and in the composition of the CLTC. If there is no objection, I don't mind it being included in such a lecture, as Mr. Knazevitch put it. It doesn't add anything, it just treats the norms that are still on the Central Electoral Commission, that is, it's an absolute transfer with minor legal amendments to all the norms that still exist. If there is a desire for a hall, vote. If not, we don't include that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u106	I'm the only one, David Vajajevitch, for the record: we're going to need a technical legal drafting of the law, of course, to do it, to edit it, to do it more faithfully. That's understandable. As far as I'm concerned. Ruslan Knyazevich, I beg of you, according to your correction, you insist on this amendment, do I understand? You insist, all right. And the committee doesn't object to this amendment. As far as military tickets or certificates are concerned. David Vážajevich, the law must make a record of military personnel, exclusively military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u107	Thus it is enshrined in the law concerning military servicemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u108	Some military personnel have military tickets, others have military certificates. So this is purely about military officers. There is no such prerogative in the law anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u109	Of course. It's clear, it's coming out of the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u110	I'd like you to keep that in mind. Thank you. Please sit down. Please, one minute. Communists, National Deputy Simonenko. And a non-fractional national MP, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u111	Simonenko, the Company faction. Respectable citizens of Ukraine! We, the Company faction, have clearly defined today what draft laws we will vote for. First of all, those who protect your social interests. Secondly, unfortunately, Ukraine has become a bad practice in the last days before the elections to amend the Electoral Act. Thirdly, the law that provides for today's adoption is coming into play, not solving the problem. It does not solve the problem of stabilizing the situation in Ukraine, but only by means of intimidation to address these problems. Third. I would like to draw the attention of the so-called coalition then to the fact that you, please, arrange your own work. You don't go to work, you don't have enough votes, you try to transfer your responsibility to other colleagues in Parliament. You're a button man, and that's obvious. I hope that honest and objective journalists will eventually begin to talk about moral principles and responsibility for what was a few months ago when you claimed your honesty and integrity with regard to buttoning. I'm once again drawing attention to the faction of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u112	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko. It's post-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u113	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! We can treat events in the country differently, but no one will deny what is critical to us in the legitimate way that we now elect the President of Ukraine. It is extremely important that there be no arguments about the procedures for the legitimacy of the President-elect. That's why these two bills allow you to remove circumstances that might question the outcome of the President's election. These are the bills we need. Not only do we need new powers or coalitions, but we all need them, we need them for Ukraine and for the people of Ukraine. That's why we have to vote for them. I also call on my friend, a close friend of Prince Ruslan, to support these bills. But our non-fractional group will vote in favour of these bills. I urge everyone to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u114	Thank you for your position. Dear colleagues, please take one minute of the People’s Deputy Opanaschenko and we make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, this is a very difficult situation in Ukraine and, indeed, the election of the President is a very important step for all of us. And these bills, they make it impossible for some forgeries, they don't allow those who do their job to vote at the place of destination. And this is a step towards democracy, a step towards really choosing the President, and there is no doubt about it. So I think these two bills are very important and need to be supported. I'm talking to everyone. I'm sure the hall will support these two bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the National Deputies to prepare for the vote. Please take your seats. I'd like the secretariat to invite everyone to the hall. And now we need to identify ourselves with regard to acceptance as a basis and in the whole of Bill 4905. 4905 draft Act amending the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine to ensure proper organization and vote. Dear national deputies, there is a proposal to support the rights involved and the clarifications as a whole. Please vote. [[12:25:46]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. I immediately inform you that there is no point in considering alternative law 4892, because its position is included in project 4905. Dear colleagues! Immediately, without discussion, we may be voting a very important question. And then we can talk about the break. This is a matter of ratification of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and the European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, National Bank of Ukraine as Borrower Agent and European Union as Creditor for Ukraine's up to EUR 1 billion in macro-financial assistance to the European Union. Dear colleagues, can we not discuss this? Do you understand the position? I've got the position. Please support, Your Honor, and accept. First, let's include the issue of ratification. Needs to be included in the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u117	You don't have to. It's a test, respected colleagues, knowledge of the Rules by the people's deputies. Colleagues, I'd like you to support this as a whole: 0085. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[12:27:21]] For 229 Decision taken, thank you. The factions, please. 4 - Party of Regions, Fatherland – 72, Impact – 26, 33 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 30 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 35. Dear colleagues, is there a need to take a break? A break? Dear colleagues, I, dear colleagues, say again, I just see that many deputies are coming out of the hall. And now we can just break the laws. That's why I'm calling a break for half an hour. The Supreme Council will continue its work at exactly 1:00. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I urge the staff of the secretariat to invite our colleagues into the hall. Parliament is continuing its work. I'm informing my colleagues that we're a little late in the work because we were hoping to reconcile the text of the memorandum of reconciliation on the peaceful resolution of the crisis in the eastern part of the country. Sadly, though, the text is not yet in line with the factions. As soon as the text is ready, we will be able to review it immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, I, unfortunately, do not yet see the willingness to vote for important issues. I hope that we will come back with you to consider amending the Criminal Code to increase the responsibility for violating the electoral rights of citizens as soon as Parliament is ready to do so. And now we have a block of laws with you. Which includes, I'm sorry, the laws that we've discussed with you, but the returns that we've insisted on at the Conciliation Council of factions, the heads of MP groups and factions. In view of the fact that they should be accepted and included in the agenda and should be put to the vote immediately, I would like to ask fellow Members of the people as we gather to discuss with you the issues that need to be dealt with, which need to be given information and discussed, which at least under reduced procedures. So I would like to ask that we now, as colleagues draw up, consider the question (register number 4583). This is the rereading of the draft Law on Metrology and Metrology. Let us remind ourselves that this law, like the Standardization Act, is linked to our European integration, with the need to move to European world standards in order to increase the competitiveness of our production. So, dear colleagues, I'm addressing the Hall, and we have the head of the Committee on Industrial and Investment Policy, Mr. Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, are we in place? Please, the National MP, Matthew, from the committee, is ready to report this law. 4583. I'd like to ask the honourable colleagues to support the decision and discuss the matter in a simplified manner. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[13:16:48]] For 139 Colleagues! Colleagues! Please, wake up, dear fellows! You can tell, but you can. Now we'll try again, dear fellows. I think that the national MPs do support the reduced procedure so that we can consider the maximum number of legislative acts. Please, Your Honor, support and consider the draft Law on Metrology and Metrological Activity, as outlined (registration number 4583). Please, colleagues, back up. [[13:17:38]] For-147 Colleagues, well, they don't want to. Please report the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u119	The distinguished presiding, respected colleagues, draft 4583 - Metrology Act submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers was considered at the plenary meeting last week, on 13 May. I think you're all well aware of this discussion, and the problems that we've had in this particular direction, in this plane, we've discussed in detail. There were no issues to the content or substance of the law at the time. There were some points that related to the work of the Supreme Council, of a purely political nature. At that time, it was decided that this law, the law, should not be spoken of as such, should go into oblivion. I then offered to accept it, to consider accepting it for re-reading. Hall agreed - and accepted him for the re-reading of the first reading. But since this was only last week, the Committee has not yet fully considered the bill. It is therefore submitted for consideration in the same manner as it was submitted. That is why I do not see, let us say, the need to consider a new draft of the bill now. We're going back to the old model, the old version of the bill. This bill is necessary today to enable us to fulfil all our obligations under the accession requirements of the International Bank and to organize work, we will say so, the normal work of our industrial enterprises. Therefore, I propose that this bill be adopted on first reading now, mobilized by all, and that the committee be able to complete it before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, are there willing to discuss this issue? Come on, fellow Members, I see a few hands that have raised the national MPs so that we can discuss this issue. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I think we need to adopt this bill, and by the way, I'm addressing all the other national MPs, to go back to those laws that we've considered, but didn't get the required number of votes. On Friday, we were considering one of the laws that was about creating new jobs where the state could fund the creation of new jobs for students who had just finished their studies and had no practical experience. I ask you to return to this question. I also ask for the following week, 29 numbers, to include the daily bill 4895: the transfer of foreign currency loans to the national currency. This is about converting all currency loans into a national currency into a currency at the rate of the date of the signing of the loan agreement. This requires more than 3 million of our citizens, who in 2006, 2007, 2008 took loans in currency when the rate was still 5 dollars, 5.05, and are now obliged to handle these loans by 12 dollars. Foreign banks, which loaned their subsidiaries in Ukraine, sold 80 percent of these loans at a discount. And now the Ukrainian oligarchic groups, as well as the investment companies that bought it with a discount of 80-90 percent. They're subtracting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u122	Mr. Mikola, I'm sorry! Mr. Mikola, I'm sorry, but we know you as a well-known metrology expert. And it's about metrology that we're currently discussing the bill. This is the law, please. [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u123	I'm done. I'll finish. I'll go back to metrology. I'm talking. Well, I've got... I've got three minutes. So that's why I'm addressing you, my esteemed colleagues, 29 numbers, when more than 10,000 people come to the Supreme Council, to consider this issue and to meet with citizens who in crisis cannot handle these loans because there is a government decision to ban salary increases, pensions and scholarships. And this law on metrology we need to support collectively today. And hopefully so is this 29-number bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u124	Thank you. It's all very, very meaningful. Please, the People's Deputies continue the metrology theme.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we all understand that economic growth cannot take place without our industrial enterprises of all industries, of all regions of Ukraine: both East, West, and North, and South - not starting to download their productive capacities and work, so we need markets. Many of you know, working in their districts, almost all of you know that the first question people ask is, where do you put your products? The first question is how to secure jobs, how to secure wages. Now that we have problems with our eastern partners, problems with the countries of the Customs Union. We have one fast way: to increase supply to the countries of the European Union. The European Union met Ukraine and made a decision: In the unilateral order, certain problems with customs payments had already been addressed. But unfortunately, a very small percentage of Ukrainian companies are able to do so by technical standards, by technical regulations, on metrology-related issues, without hindrance to get a badge, well, the so-called "SEE" badge, and deliver products freely to the countries of the European Union. The bill that is proposed for adoption is not political. For the first time, this bill was passed by the government of Azar. For the second time, this bill was passed by the government of Yatsenuk. This bill will allow us to harmonise our procedures in Ukraine in such a way that all businesses in the Ukrainian industry can, as soon as possible, get the "SEE" badge. This means that domestic producers will enjoy the European market in their own right. So I'm asking you all to concentrate right now -- and allow our manufacturers to go to the external markets. This does not allow for investment in domestic production by any investor who is present. For the most part, investors are outside of Ukraine. Before making a decision, they look: and the product meets or does not meet the standards that are accepted in the world; and there is a system or no system to standardize it to these standards. So we're going to solve a lot of questions, both social issues and economic issues, and thus we're going to do our duty as a national deputy, do something to get people to work and get their wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u126	Thank you. People's MP Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u127	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It is clear that this question, the bill that is now put to the vote, is bound to receive, of course, the support of the Hall. Because this will, indeed, allow our enterprises to begin the process of harmonising standards and getting out, not into Europe, but into the world. But I want to say one more thing. Dear society, dear colleagues, we still have a lot of issues to consider, so let's, if we're considering a bill, let's talk about essentially the bill, not something else. Of course Freedom will uphold the rights of the investors and vote in favour, but the sooner we make decisions on the current issues, the sooner we get to the others. So let's talk clearly, concisely, properly, vote -- and move on to the next question. Freedom supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u129	Alexander Momot, 27th District of Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, this bill will allow the distribution of functions: regulators, farmers, supervisors -- and allow this circle to be severed, the corruption swamp to be dried up when I examine it, I'll make my own prescription, and I'll do my own work. This bill needs to be supported. He has some inadequacies in terms of terminology, but this can be corrected for second reading. I would like to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u130	I see. Dear colleagues! Everyone who has spoken today proposes to uphold this law. It is really important for the transition to European world standards. And I ask the honourable national deputies to sit in their seats, prepare for the vote. Let me remind you, we're currently looking at the bill on metrology and metrology, registered number 4583. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this project in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:28:41]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'm just surprised that when we speak, everyone stands still. The "Race" system is starting to work, and everyone's running to their places of work to vote. Let's make some noise. I can do, for example, three calls. It's okay, isn't it? This means running to your workplace and voting. Let's try this system right now. Please, dear colleagues, now mobilize and vote in the first reading of Project No. 4583 on metrology and metrology. Please, Your Honor, support national manufacturers. Please vote. [[13:29:43]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 31, 66 – Fatherland, 29 – Impact, Economic Development – 27, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6.28 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 24 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues! I ask the faction leaders once again to mobilize your deputies so that they can make effective decisions. I have no explanation why we can't get five or seven votes for such important laws. Dear colleagues, block. We'll be ready. We'll come back to that. Even three calls didn't help! To be included in the agenda, respectable colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, gather your voices! Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say: inclusion. Colleagues, joining the agenda. Please. Please, Your Honor, one minute from the factions. Please sign up for the performance. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u131	Paul Rosenko, strike faction. I would really like to call on everyone, and the factions that didn't vote in favour of this bill. Indeed, this bill does not require much for Ukraine to make any commitment to someone. This bill on metrology needs Ukrainian businesses, Ukrainian entrepreneurs, to harmonise our entire legislative base so that businesses can work. On the one hand, to harmonize, on the other hand, to simplify. Because the pressure on business, the pressure on businesses today is huge. This applies to both the metrology bill and the standardization bill. These are extremely important bills to simplify Ukraine's business, to increase Ukraine's investment attractiveness. So I suggest you go back to that question and support them all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u132	Thank you for the constructive offer. National deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u133	The Party of Regions supports the need to vote for this bill and urges all fellow MPs to concentrate, come into the hall, and still remember that standards, if we build a state of standards, are important, and in metrology first, and we call everyone to account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u134	Thank you. People's deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, the most disciplined group, Economic Development, we have voted and we will vote. But, Alexander Valentinovich, I remind you. Last Wednesday, I told you, let's vote Thursday for the most important laws, and then we close the Supreme Council, because everyone works for MPs. Then you sceptically accepted my offer. But there were only 12 votes on Thursday, as I predicted. On Friday they were not there. The same will be true today. Alexander Valentinovich, well, what do you call us to vote for? We vote. I'll be honest with you, I'm already in three votes here, let them show you upstairs. But there are no votes in the room, because they're gathering votes out there for deputies. I call on you on behalf of the Economic Development Party, the groups, to vote, but look real.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u136	Colleagues, I'm asking you not to vote for three deputies, just for yourself. National Deputy Donny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u137	Important bills are in the agenda, particularly the bill. Obviously, MPs require discipline and order. There is no other way to give discipline than to finally vote on the sensory button and overcome the buttoning. So there is a insistence, not even a request, but a requirement of the group to put in order a day’s sensory button as a fight against cannabis. Otherwise we have a situation that is still -- I'm not even talking to the deputies, I'm talking to the electorates -- we're voting on the tears and jaremi cards that we robbed the MPs a week ago. If you think it's normal, then I'm sorry, it's going to be the discrediting of Parliamentarianism. A week ago, we voted in favour of their removal. The law is still not signed, and with their cards, someone is voting. Well, can you do that?Oh, my God! Sorry, if we're ruining Parliament, the whole state will collapse. You can't do that. We demand that the issue of the sensor button be put in the order of the day and voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u138	Thank you. People's MP Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Kseniya Lapiniya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u140	Please turn on the Xenia Lapinius microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u141	Xenia Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the European Union has now removed all customs barriers to Ukrainian goods. Technical barriers remain. And they stayed, not with the European Union, but with us. Because for the second week, we can't vote on basic laws on metrology and certification. And I'm particularly talking to the group "Supreme European Ukraine." They were called "European Ukraine" -- at least take a half step in the direction of European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, National MP Mirny. I'll give it to the People's Deputy Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u143	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Clearly, Alexander Valentinovich, I ask you to go back to voting on this bill. But I want to draw the attention of the Ukrainians to the position of Communists, who tell us what they're going through for production, for this other thing. Look, Europe has taken a step forward. She only said the only thing: let's agree on the rules that we're working with. What are the Communists doing? Russia is closing its market, Europe is opening. The Communists do not vote for this important bill, primarily for enterprises in the East, to be voted on. And we're starting to convince each other that come on, let's go. You don't have to give! We have to do our job! Who doesn't want to work? Please, suitcase, train station, home! There's nothing to count as the members of the Supreme Council! Put in your authority, do whatever you can! Or work! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u144	Thank you. From the profile committee, please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! I think that's the theme that we should all be united today: our producer, our budget, our voters, who need to fill in the income part of the budget. Improving the national standardization system is the way to open markets. It is now a mechanism and a way through which we must seize the niche that will help us, regardless of any development path we choose, have a clear position and be sure to stand on our feet in the economy. Therefore, a convincing request: Let us accept it on first reading, this bill. It really requires serious refinements in that we need to change some language, we need to look at some elements, simplify many points. However, this is our way of winning trade markets today. This is our way of making our exporters and our domestic producer feel confident about the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues have suggested that virtually all representatives of the MPs and factions return to this issue. I'm going to put to the vote one day the question of going back to that question. Please, Your Honor, we have about 300 national deputies in this room. We have enough deputies to make decisions. Not enough political will. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. And now. Colleagues, let's talk later, after the vote. Please return to the High Council for consideration of question 4583. Please, everyone, regardless of political sympathy, antipathies. Please support a return to this question. [[13:39:05]] For 227 Decision taken. Right away. Don't stop, immediately, dear fellows, please don't distract each other, support this law in the first reading. I mean, by taking it as a foundation. Please vote. Don't miss it, dear fellows. Please, as long as it's gone. [[13:39:37]] For 239. Decision taken. And you say. However, colleagues, it is very difficult to convince and adopt laws. The factions, please. Region Party 44, Parenthood 72, Impact 32, Economic Development 31, Sovereign European Ukraine 4, Freedom 29.0 – Company 27 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, let's take a look at the block. Colleagues, there's an immediate proposal for standardization to be accepted. Is there no objection? These are laws on the one hand. This is Law No. 4585. Please return to his consideration. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this question. Please support, Your Honor, all of you. Who for Ukraine, who for the national manufacturer, come on! [[13:40:38]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, first reading. The committee's offering everything? In the first. Have a seat. There's a first-reading proposal, we've discussed it many times, to support the draft Standardization Act (registration number 4585) in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:41:08]] For 237 Decision taken. I thank the people's deputies from all the producers of Ukraine. Please, by the factions. 42 – “Regions”, 68 – “Fatherhood”, 32 – “BALL”, 31 – “Economic development”, 3 – “Sovereign European Ukraine”, 30 – “Freedom”, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to support these two laws to be considered in a simplified procedure. Yes or no? Is that what MPs insist on? Please, Law 8543, 4585 prepare for the second reading of the reduced procedure. [[13:41:56]] For 219 There were no short-term deputies. Dear colleagues, we will vote in full procedure. Colleagues, please, you wouldn't be walking around the hall, yes, but you'd be working in places, then we wouldn't have any questions. You don't have to! Short-term procedure is decision-making, it's not 150. This is a simplified procedure for dealing with the issue. And the preparation of the question requires more than 226 votes. Let's try again to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Mikola Volodymyrovich, for a brief procedure. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich couldn't get to his place of work. I beg your pardon, Your Honor. Vote. [[13:43:03]] For 240 See what three bells are. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal, when inspiration is, to vote on a law that we have not passed on to presidential elections. This is Act 4741: amending the Criminal Code. I understand everyone wanted to uphold this law. Yes, colleagues? Andrew Volodymyrovich, please take your place! I understand that even the members of the "North European Ukraine" will also vote in favour of the presidential election. Please, colleagues, on the basis of a total of 4,741. I'm going back to looking at it, please. Let's go back to his consideration first. Please vote. [[13:44:05]] For 193 No, it's not. You don't want to fight forgeries. 193 for. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions does not want to fight forgeries in elections – 0 votes, 73 votes – Fatherland, 31 – Impact, Economic Development – only 9, 22 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 30 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, I have no understanding of the position of national MPs. But let's go then. Dear colleagues, can we vote on joining the agenda? We can. Well, what does "no" mean, dear colleagues?Oh, my God! Gather your deputies. For inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor. The first law proposed. Can we vote with a package? No, it's not. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, do you or don't you? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, colleagues, we can testify by voting. Can we get a package? There are opposition laws and laws from most of them. Can we put the package to the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] We can, we can. Communists say we can, yes. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The whole package of laws: 4808, 4784, 4756, 4836, 4900, 4903, 4846, 4792, 4607, 4898, 4834, 4737, 4837, 4938, 4143 and 4870 - for the economy of time, the forces of the Supreme Council can we pack?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u147	Please, two hands raised by Mikola Martinenko, turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u148	Alexander Valentinovich, a very big request to include Bill 4566 in this list is about the energy sector for the continuous work of state energy companies. He was on a day-to-day project yesterday. Something went missing this morning. Please add 4566 Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, let's go to the bag. Please, National Deputy Rosenko. Just with a constructive offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u150	Alexander Valentinovich, well, the position of our faction, the impact faction, remains unchanged. We must not allow the Rules to be violated on this issue and vote on each bill separately. Our faction will not vote for all the bills. There's a whole series of bills that we're going against both in fact and against including them in the agenda. So the position of our faction is consistent: we will not vote for all the bills together. Dear colleagues, this may be a non-voting position, but it's not a violation of the Rules, we've already talked to you about this. Parliament itself is determined: to vote in a package for inclusion in the agenda, or each law individually, is for MPs to decide. National MP Filipenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u151	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the Economic Development Group also wants to clarify its position by 4741. We are in charge of strengthening criminal responsibility for the violation of electoral rights. But we are not in favour of voting on this bill as a basis and as a whole, because, in our view, it contains quite serious flaws and disagreements. Please also consider the position of our group, Alexander Valentinovich. And again, if we put it into the agenda, we also want this bill to be included in the agenda and to work on it, just as we have included many other bills in the agenda. But we ask you to vote for each bill separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u152	Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, I have an offer. I support the general approach of the impact faction on the need to vote for every bill. But I propose, Alexander Valentine's Day, to vote on every bill that is proposed but not discussed. Thus, we can combine, on the one hand, the opportunity for each MP to express his view of a bill, and at the same time, we will not waste much time on other bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, many factions demand that each law be voted on separately. Let's not waste time, we'll vote without discussion anyway, because it's inclusion in the agenda, it doesn't need discussion. Dear colleagues, please, let's not waste any time. Very many laws, so I call the number of the law, I read its name, and I ask you to determine the hall. Is that the position taken? Roger that. Thus, honourable colleagues, draft Law 4808 is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts (for the activity of the State Employment Service). Please, Your Honor, please identify yourself as to the inclusion of this law in the order of the day. Please vote. [[13:49:43]] For 178. The decision is not taken. It's bad luck for the Employment Service. Please consider the following draft 4784: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the functioning of the State Land Bank). It's a very important question. Those who engage in agrarian activities understand how important it is to support this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, please proceed to the vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the 4784 project: the functioning of the State Land Bank. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:50:30.]] For 223 Andrew Derkach, you see, standing next to a column, could vote -- and the law would be included. Come on, Andrew, let's go to work, and now we're going to try to bring this up again. Yes or no? "Yes," answered the people's deputies. Yes, dear fellows, I ask you all to take your seats. Land bank, without a land bank, it's impossible to talk about agrarian sector reform. I thank the People’s Deputy for his support of the matter. Please, Your Honor, we're voting now. Dear colleagues, please, tell me that in the dining room people’s deputies are gaining strength and giving interviews. I'd like the secretariat to invite everyone. Please, colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda of the 4784 project. Please, colleagues, about making changes to certain laws (for the financing of the State Land Bank). Now, let's vote. Dear colleagues, give the National Deputy Rudzkowski one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we have now consulted with non-frustrationals. Dear colleagues! Well, we didn't even have one another three months ago when, consciously, when a national deputy goes somewhere, some region, his card is inserted and a vote is made. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing you, Alexander Valentine's Day, explain to the hall why the day-to-day question about the sensory button is not in order. If. No, wait! We're three years old. For two years, the issue of personal voting was discussed. The post-factioners are now conscientiously attending the meetings of the Supreme Council, taking part in the vote. We turn to that question. Come on. We're voting our heads off, but we agree that this is a question that's being put into the agenda today. Alexander Valentinovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u156	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that the question of voting using the sensory button is included in the order of the day of this session. We've already voted on that. First. Second of all, respectable colleagues. I want to inform you that unfortunately, the sensor button doesn't solve this problem either. And I have been instructed by the Secretary of the Supreme Council to prepare a new format for the "Council" system, which completely excludes voting for another MP. This is going to be a new job for the People's Deputy. The only technology we can solve is during summer vacations, so the Council system doesn't fail. You just can't see, I have a constant computer dependency, the Council system has actually exhausted its resources, and it needs real upgrades. And such an update has already been prepared by Ukrainian experts. Another question is that it takes time for him, let's say, to prepare the hall and do technical work so that we can provide you with the uninterrupted work of the Supreme Council, and make it impossible to vote for another deputy. So, dear colleagues, please. The land bank should not be affected by the unprincipled position of individual deputies. Please, Your Honor, Number 4784. Vladimir Mikhailovich, No4784, Earth Bank. I know how agrarian questions you respect and care about. Let's support the Earth Bank. Integrating into the agenda. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Colleagues, may we vote? We can. Please support inclusion in the agenda. 4784. Please vote. [[13:54:49]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. It's hard, colleagues. It's hard to process. Please, project 4756: draft Law on the Cooperation of Territorial Communities. Not ready to comment on its contents. Please ask the National Deputies to determine whether this project will be included in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:55:24]] For 219 A little bit. "To" is 219. Dear colleagues, well, you see, that's where the colleagues are talking, and that's where their voices are, and that's not enough to make a decision. We'll come back when you insist. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the fight against terrorism. A very important question, dear colleagues. Please support the fight against terrorism! Registration number 4836. Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[13:56:04]] For a hundred and "For" is just 156 people's deputies. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Let's see who's not ready to fight terrorism. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 64, Klicka – 29, Economic Development – 14, "North European Ukraine" – 0, "Freedom" – 30, non-fractional – 19. Please, Your Honor, next question on inclusion in the agenda, 4900: draft Act amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2014 (to complete the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk). Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself on this matter as to how it is to be included in the agenda. Please be supportive. [[13:56:59]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, no decision is made. Next question, Your Honor, 4903: Draft Law on Amendments to Article 19 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality (recrimination of decisions by local authorities). Project of the Pashinski People's Deputy. Please, 4903, please vote. [[13:57:35]] For 139 The decision is not taken. Please ask the following question: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency in financing political parties in Ukraine and pre-election agitation. Please, Your Honor. Is that a question? Well, we're not discussing it. Colleagues, we agreed not to discuss the matter. Colleagues, we are now entering into the agenda, not discussing the issue. Please, Your Honor, back up, and then we'll talk about it. Please support inclusion in the agenda. [[13:58:31]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the microphone to the People’s Replica MP for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u157	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to ask you once again to return to this question. Why? Unfortunately, in our country, over the past 20 years, there has been a unique practice where individual candidates for the Presidents, when individual political parties, and especially, I stress, are now, in a declaration, having one-room apartment and income less than that of a colporteur, in nursing homes, floating to the Presidents. People aren't stupid, and they've been learning how much a candidate's shoes cost, how much clothes and cars he comes to meet, or the helicopter he's flying on. And you don't have to cheat on Ukrainian citizens. If you want to travel to the presidents, the first proof of your honesty should be the correspondingness of your income and your campaign spending.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I continue for 15 minutes the meeting of the Supreme Council. We're entitled to that. Dear colleagues, I beg you, on this matter? Now, colleagues, I see a lot of hands. It's a discussion of the question. I'll remind you that we're putting it into the agenda. Please, National MP Pisarenko, 1 minute. And Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u159	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I only ask you to add 4860 to the agenda of the Conciliation Council. This is the TSK regarding the assassination of the mayor of Kharkiv Kernes. If possible, please also put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u160	Okay. It doesn't need to be included in the agenda, it doesn't need to be included, colleague. We will return, in four hours Parliament will begin to work -- and we will consider this. I don't see a problem. I think the hall will support it. Colleagues, please. I can put this question to the vote again, but I don't see how many votes I can support it. At the request of the people's deputies, please also Chevchenko National MP, one minute, word. And we'll try to vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u161	Alexander Valentinovich, I also support the return to the vote. Guys, I just want to get your attention. Today, for the first time in Ukrainian history, public budgets, the preliminary budgets of key candidates for the Presidents were announced before the elections. This is done under public pressure. The law that we are now invited to include in the agenda will do so, not by voluntary headquarters practice, but by mandatory order for all future elections: both for presidential elections and for parliamentary elections. It's a joint work of public organizations and a huge number of international experts. He was supported by representatives of several key factions. I call now for the return to the vote. It's just inclusion in the agenda. It is a gesture of goodwill and a step in support of the transparency of our politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I beg you, I understand your position. People's deputies have spoken. At the request of the people's deputies, I ask once more questions about the inclusion in the agenda of the 4846 project. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote on the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[14:02:23]] For-138 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've had the minister of justice here for two hours. I would ask that we spend five minutes and allow the minister to continue to work according to his assignment. I inform you, Your Honor, that in accordance with Article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice is a member of the High Council of Justice. In accordance with article 17 of the Law of Ukraine on the Higher Council of Justice and article 217 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, before becoming a member of the Supreme Council of Justice, an oath is made at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Minister of Justice of Ukraine, member of the Superior Council of Petrenko Pavlov Dmitrovitch, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Pavel Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u163	I, Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovitch, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to the duties of members of the High Council of Justice in order to ensure the formation of a corps of high - professional and honest lawyers and the observance of law and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-05-20-m0.u164	Thank you, Paul Dmitrovich. We ask that we do these duties conscientiously and honestly. Dear colleagues, we're still working, we still have 10 minutes of intensive and efficient work to do. Draft Decision on Some Measures to Prevent Extremism and Separatism in Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, draft registration number 4792, please. This is a decree on measures to prevent extremism and separatism. Please support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[14:04:09]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we still have 10 minutes to work with you. But I can see that until the Supreme Council is ready for effective work. Colleagues, I understand that factions come up with the initiative to enable them to mobilize during the break. Yes or no? Gather all the national MPs together so that we can continue to work effectively after the break at 4:00. Therefore, a break of 16 hours is announced, please.
