ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Unfortunately, today’s work is very difficult because consultations are constantly taking place, and there are ongoing discussions. We're talking about the form of settlement of the situation in the East of Ukraine, primarily by peaceful means. And it was around this topic that a 2.5 - hour meeting took place in the head of the Supreme Council. We have approached the format of the memorandum, the adoption of the relevant laws, but unfortunately, we have not reached the point of consensus when the decision becomes meaningful. I hope that before Easter we will still be able to get into a format that provides for the consolidation of Ukrainian citizens and ensures that all our efforts are united around Ukraine’s only indivisible democratic Ukraine. And now I'm asking that we go further in adopting laws. Sadly, the first half of our working day was not very effective. Dear colleagues, there is still an offer to return to laws that we have not been able to consider with you and accept in connection with the lack of needed votes. On one occasion, I propose that I stop at every law that we considered in the second reading, in view of the fact that national deputies were very involved in the consultations. And so we can make decisions anyway either by supporting or by removing the law from the discussion. The first law we agreed to vote on, I see it's the 2050 law. Please, Your Honor, if you'd like to sit in your seats, let's see how many national deputies are ready to make decisions today. Please turn on the glade system for registration. [[16:11:08]] There were 313 national deputies registered in the hall. We continue our work. The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Dear colleagues, we've stopped with you at the adoption of the 2050 law. I recall it was supported by a practical majority, not enough votes and asked the national deputies to return to its consideration. Draft Act amending article 18 of the Police Act to improve the internal affairs system (second reading). Dear colleagues, is there a need? Let's get out of here, Andriy Anatolyovich. We talked about it. Remember, Andrew. You mean there's no objection? I won't. Dear colleagues, I ask that Parliament support the return to this issue. Please, Your Honor, vote back on the draft Act amending article 18 of the Police Act. Please be supportive. [[16:12:24]] For 210 Dear colleagues, by factions, please. 0 – Regions, 71 – Fatherland, 26 – Impact, 30 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign Ukraine, 33 – Freedom, 0 – Company and non-fractional – 25. Andrew Anatolyovich, come on. Colleagues, we're not going to vote, I'm just going to film these laws, important laws from the perspective, and as such, they're broken. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u2	I want to go to my colleagues from the Party of Regions and say the following. The fact is that the initiator of this bill was a member of our committee, a member of your faction, a distinguished Mr. Malesev Lieutenant General of the IMF, and he proposed this bill. And the committee sees that this bill really takes for young teachers of the Academy of Internal Affairs, as well as all the institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to go to work with internal affairs. And if he changed his mind that he had not chosen his profession correctly, he went into commercial work after finishing his studies, and in those years he was making amends to the state for all of these costs. This proposal was by Vladimir Stepanovich and we supported it on the committee. So there's nothing to worry about. So what we're doing here is we're just putting order in the training of young people, and then we're going to work for the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u3	Please, National Deputy Herman. Guys, we're not discussing this, we're just going to make decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u4	Dear National Deputies! A party of regions cannot vote on secondary laws without resolving fundamental issues without which it will not be in a peaceful state. And all these secondary laws will have no effect on the situation. We demand once again to listen to and listen to the voice of the South East to take all measures to ensure that a second national language is introduced in the state, that there be decentralization of power, and that the communities are allowed to choose governors, and that the regions themselves can determine which part of the tax should be left in places for the needs of the regions. These are our basic requirements that meet the demands of those who today stand in protests in the east of Ukraine. Without solving these issues, all other laws do not matter because we lose the state in front of our eyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, I'm returning to the hall. There's a point to go back, folks, let's make political statements we'll make when the time is right. We're making a decision now. And so, dear fellows, once again, I'm not going to ask that question again. Please return to vote on the return to the subject, registration number 2050a, draft law amending article 18 of the Police Act. All MPs support it. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support a return to this question. Please vote. [[16:15:52]] For 214 The decision is not taken. Next question. By factions, please: 0 is a region, 73 is a parent, 30 is a hit, 29 is an economic development, 28 is a sovereign European Ukraine, 32 is a Freedom, and the Company is 0.22 is non-fractional. Dear colleagues, the following question, the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences (on the responsibility of officials, operators of electronic sites). It was also a second reading, respected colleagues. You've discussed this in detail. I ask you to check the Supreme Council's readiness to vote for him. Please, dear fellows. [[B in m in s a l in]] We got him, that's the question. So the question is, the Supreme Council just turned him down, right? Please, colleagues, let's have a discussion. You can just vote. Turn on the chapel, national MP, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u6	I'd like to explain to the voters why the Party of Regions and Communists didn't vote in favour of this bill, because they're at your expense, expensive Ukrainian voters, expensive pensioners, small and medium-sized businesses, metallurgists, miners, they're going to train their children, and then they're going to push them through a professional ladder, and now they want you to continue to pay for them to teach them their sprays for your money. That's the first one. Secondly, at the same time, I would like to ask the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk to immediately review a number of his assignments, where, for example, I learned yesterday, the deputy chief of the DAI, who controls the work of the MREO, was appointed the son of the former chief of the Kharkiv militia, Lieutenant Zacharchenk, who lived in Spain and "smithed" MREO number 2, who was in the city of Kyiv, where the lock was corrupt. This should not be allowed, and order should be given above all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, we are now talking about the draft Law on Amendments to Article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for illegal mining). An important question, you remember. How much crime, how much corruption around this problem! Are you ready for the Supreme Council to come back to this issue? Ready. Please support the return to the Law, to question 2855, the registration number, to amend article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase the responsibility for illegal mining). Please, dear fellows. Please support a return to this question. Please vote. [[16:18:47]] For-170. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of regions, 77 – "Paternity", 0 – "Klitzka" Dear colleagues, I'm a little surprised. This is a very important question. Why aren't we supporting? Economic Development – 9. Neither did we. "North European Ukraine" is 27, 34 "Freedom", and the Company is 0.23 "non-factional". There is no desire to fight illegal mining. Yes, 2049, dear colleagues. Let me remind you of the content of this Law. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to improve the settlement of real estate relationships). Do you want to go back to that? There's a desire to go back. Dear colleagues! Please consider the willingness of the Supreme Council to support the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to improve the settlement of immovable property relationships). This simplifies the procedure for our citizens. Registration number 2049. I would like the Supreme Council to decide whether or not to return to this issue. Please vote. [[16:20:07]] For 204 The decision is not taken. There's no wish. Next question, dear colleagues. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Audition was rejected, and the Supreme Council will not return to it. Only 107 deputies supported him, so there is virtually no way to restore him. That's why this law is rejected, and I'm asking you to write it down. Law 2183a. Also rejected, I understand? The Supreme Council did not take a decision on the matter by rejecting the project. Next, dear colleagues. The Professional Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has repealed Laws 3061, 3238. I don't mind the Supreme Council, do I? He doesn't mind. Now, honourable colleagues, to make decisions from the issues under discussion on which there were no votes. Attention, because we did not vote on these questions. It's about, first of all, Law 1016. The bill's draft is attention! - Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act (the extension of the right to housing for military personnel, members of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine). An important question, dear colleagues. During the discussion, everyone supported this law. Colleagues, everyone backed up. Attention! Please. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the Presidency face-to-face and to the walls of Parliament in another place! Dear colleagues, please let us make our decisions. Thank you. Colleagues, Law 1016. We talked about it. During the performances, all the national deputies supported him. Now we have to make up our minds. The committee's proposal: to take as a basis or as a whole? On the basis and in general. That's our second question at all. That's right, in general. Dear colleagues, the proposal: 1016 - "To ensure the realization of the housing rights of residents of hostels" (to extend the right to housing for military personnel, armed forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine) - please support in general. Please vote. [[16:22:46]] For 244 There's potential in the Supreme Council. "To" is 244. Decision taken. The factions, please. Is that a question? Please turn on Sergey Mishchenko's microphone. The author of the law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u8	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. I am grateful to all the deputies who have supported this bill. But I would now like to call on the Ministry of Defence, the Foreign Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and everyone to bring their internal documents into line with the adoption of these laws. Because in some places, police officers and police officers have been registered with the hostels only since 2013. So that we do not adopt an empty law that will work for these military personnel in five years, that is, in 2018. So I'm asking you to look at the documents that these military officials and colleagues in internal affairs, the Border Service and all that sort of stuff, the ones that we've included when we were settling into these newsgroups, in other internal documents, in order to compare this to the actual registration. So that we do not adopt the empty law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u9	I got the offer. Please give the Secretariat a mandate to guide the force structures in order to ensure the implementation of this law. Dear colleagues, the following important question is: This is the draft Law (registration number 4389), which has been discussed, on the rehabilitation of persons who have been illegally convicted. It's a second reading. We're through. Dear colleagues, 4389. Is that a question? No, no, colleagues. We'll talk about the last one, we'll talk about it. Let's make a decision before Parliament starts to vote. 4389. Should we remind ourselves of what kind of law, respectable colleagues? You don't have to. Everyone remembers, and during the performances, everyone supported that law. 4389 — in general (proposal) to pass this law. He was discussed. We must make a decision now. Please support 4389. Please vote. [[16:25:13]] For 219 Dear colleagues, 219 votes. The factions, please. 0 - Regions, 80 - Fatherland, 29 - Impact, 22 - Economic Development, 29 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 - Freedom, non-fractional 24. I would like to ask Irina Kupreyczyk, please comment on this question from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u10	This bill has already been considered. And two amendments were made. It is a very big request to accept it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, by this law. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u12	Igor Miroshnichenko. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually an extremely important bill. We, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, have registered a similar bill under number 4708. He's actually a little bit better, let me explain. Because the bill provides for the possibility of a review of court sentences only for politically condemned or convicted political reasons. We have registered a bill that foresees the possibility of rehabilitating people who have simply been illegally imprisoned and sentenced. Therefore, if possible, vote in favour of re-reading the bill. But anyway, if the room supports this bill now in the way it is, we're going to submit additions and changes to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I propose that we do not work constantly to supplement the law, let's support the proposal, so I understand that Oleg Zarubinski is also on this proposal, for a second reading, to expand the position, and not just the politically convicted, but all those who are illegally convicted. Is this position supported? Supported. Please, Your Honor, vote on the proposal of honourable national deputies to reread this law in order to send this law 4389 for re-reading in order to extend the category of citizens who may be rehabilitated in connection with their illegal condemnation. Please expand. Because this is a position, it should also be interesting. Please support the proposal for a second read. Please vote. [[16:27:51]] For 224 Dear colleagues! Get Zarubinsky on the microphone. Friends, once again, I'd like to comment on this subject, but it's not right on the air. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u14	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! I turn to those who may have some doubts. I wanted to remind you that an amendment was introduced to the proposed version on the grounds that this applies to all persons who have been illegally convicted regardless of age. So it's not just 2010, 2012 or 2014, it's illegal. Hence, it seems that enough people are subject to this law. And we're doing a really humane and humanitarian thing. That's why I propose that those who are in doubt vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! Can we try the second reading again? Please, let's re-read this law. So that colleagues who want to expand this position can make adjustments to it and then we can accept it as a whole. Please re-read the second reading, please support the vote. Please vote. Just press the button, green. [[16:29:11]] For 226 See what counsel can do. Decision taken. For our second reading, we sent the law. Dear colleagues! The next question is the 0927 draft Law on Amendments to Article 35 of the master procedural code of Ukraine (for reasons of exemption from proof). Second reading. My colleagues, do you understand what I'm saying? The question is about the 35th article of the Code of Conduct. Needless to say, what is involved in the law? You don't have to. We discussed it, and now we can make a decision. Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to support this law as a whole. Please determine by vote – 0927 – the proposal as a whole. Please vote. [[16:30:13]] For 230 Decision taken. Next question. I beg you, we'll pass then I'll give you my word. Dear colleagues, the next question is about a complex draft law, but what is important is the bill on social television and radio broadcasting in Ukraine. He was discussed. And now there's an offer to accept it as a whole. Please turn on the microphone before the vote of Mikola Tomenka. I'd like you to tell me, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, how long has this law started to work so that the system would still work, maybe from a new year or something, so that we could prepare for implementation so it wouldn't be empty. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u16	That's right, Alexander Valentine's Day, and I wanted to point out in my speech what are the details that I've said, which are in agreement with the government, with the media community, they're in the transcript when I reported. And really, you're absolutely right that the law becomes effective from the moment it's published. Because it's been written in the paper since January 1, 2014. Of course, it was later introduced. And I have requests, friends, mostly to the representatives of the Party of Regions, because I understand that the Communists will not vote. This is a bill that has been drafted together. And I'll tell you that this bill has been supported by both Europeans and Ukrainians and representatives of all the nationalities that live in Ukraine so that you don't worry. And there was a group of all media experts. If we don't support it, I think it's going to be a decade's work, so to speak. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u17	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u18	Dear Ukrainians, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is the first time such a law is passed before the presidential elections. That is, the new authority makes a commitment to the presidential election to create public speaking so that it will never be repeated as it was for the previous authorities when we saw ten stories about the President and then the Prime Minister in the news. And it wasn't absolutely no state language, and it was a propaganda channel of power. It is quite obvious that the State would have long had a public voice if the Party of the Regions had been voting for the creation of a social channel since 2006. And that's why today's extremely important vote, you know, here we're called upon to give rights to the Nazis, so this is social language -- that's the TV channel that will include the rights of national minorities. And that's why it's very important now to see how these two parties vote either governmental or treasonous, whether they're Ukrainian or, in fact, working absolutely like a fifth column.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u19	People's MP Opanaschenko. It's very important he wants to make a statement. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, this is a bill that still needs, I think, a discussion. Because to destroy a state-funded television that has to be broadcast. And the state through it has to form an information space, and leave a television that's only going to be financed by private grants or funds, is that going to be really independent television? So once again, I think we need to work on it. This is a very dangerous situation in the country when television is financed only by private funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u21	Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, be careful! I'd like to ask the deputies who. Now, we have such a weakness, and I also knew a lot of the deputies who came in the evening, and Leonid Mikhailovich was such a living classic, he came in the evening, he was drinking tea with Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, and he asked: and what we talked about all day, I'm ready to do. Friends, I'm telling you again, the bill clearly states: the state budget is 0.2 percent. A clear state guarantee that this channel will work for the Ukrainian state, for the Ukrainian tradition, for the national minorities and for everything that does not do commercial channels. But more government channels than Social Nowhere in the country. Well, how private is that? We've cut the commercial three times, we've banned the advertising of alcohol and tobacco on this social television channel. And it's going to be created, unfortunately, for a very long time, because it's not easy to do that. So let's make this start today and together we'll do Ukrainian Social Television and not invent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u23	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not take offense but to each other. Each MP has the right to his or her position. Guys, we're not discussing this. Just before the vote, I asked the committee head to remind them of what was going on. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, I am addressing those who may be working in another field, in other committees. In fact, we went to this law for several years. This is Andrew Shevchenko, many who worked on this law. It fits the traditions that exist in a civilized world. Ukraine needs such a law. See, the journalists themselves have gathered to create public television. And in spite of our position, our braking of this process, they've already shown an example of how public television can work. Today we must demonstrate unity. That's what the country needs. And it has to work, not for the state, but for Ukrainian society, to reflect people's thoughts, to allow political and economic competition to develop. And so by taking this step, we're going to allow Ukraine to implement those European standards that we guarantee and declare. Thank you. Please support the non-fractional and MPs of the majority, and the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, we have discussed the matter well. For the second time, all positions are expressed. I ask you to determine by voting. I'm voting on draft Law 1076 on Social Television and Radio in Ukraine. It's a second reading, I'll remind you. So the proposal for a profile committee is to support the law as a whole. Please vote. [[16:37:22]] For 243 Decision taken. Welcome to the decision-making process. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the draft Law on Reforming Printed Media. Can we vote, please? Mikoli Volodymyrovich, turn on the microphone, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, two who were not when we discussed actively in the session room. The same is true of a sufficiently long and lengthy discussion. We found a compromise, a major radical part of which I belong, that we compromised, and before our colleagues in the labor community, this transition will be very evolutionary and peaceful. The first year of transition takes place only with the agreement of working groups and journalists, followed by the second stage of two years of transition. So we're going to be able to compromise both between the editors and the boards during this period. And one more moment, Alexander Valentine's Day, Derteradio supports, there's a leader present, and all the experts support it. Similarly, this law states that it has become effective since publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u27	Clearly, we can put to the vote, honourable colleagues, questions. Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u28	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Since this table was not distributed, I have a question for the reporter. I ask you, please tell me, my amendments, which refer to the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, have they found support or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u29	Once again, please turn on Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u30	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, part counted, part not. Because we came out of the fact that the Voice of Ukraine is a special newspaper whose work is regulated in addition to the general framework of this law and our decisions, because the founder of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So there are nuances and questions about the Voice of Ukraine, and we have decided that, in order not to make a special article on the Voice of Ukraine in general law, we will discuss peacefully with the team and with the experts and our decision, because we are the founders of the Supreme Council, to specify the place and role of the Voice of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, let's define by voting. There is an offer, the committee proposes that this law be supported in general. I ask that you take into account the comments that have been made, we must now make a decision. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, any other comments? Please. Turn on the Lithuanian microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u32	Then let's write in the Final Positions that the standards of this Law don't apply to the Voice of Ukraine and will be separately defined how to proceed with it, because we're going to have a lot of problems. Because part of it counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I think. I understand the position. The committee agrees with this question that, except for the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, which Parliament will determine by its own decision, its status. No objections? There's no objection. All right, good fellows. Does the government courier get here? Let's do "Government courier" and "The Voice of Ukraine." Except for these two newspapers, because that's the right thing to do. Dear colleagues, I would like to support you by excluding these two newspapers from the committee's decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote in full law. [[16:41:23]] For 204 Please, by factions: 0 – Party of Regions, 81 – Fatherland, Impact – 30.32 – Economic Development, 30 – Sovereign Ukraine, Freedom – 1, Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Dear colleagues, the law is not supported. Is there a second proposal on the committee or not? Is there a second offer? Please turn on Tomenka's MP's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u34	Of course, it is a surprise to me that our coalition colleagues believe that governors and heads of administrations should have their own newspapers at budget costs. I think they should tell the voters. But there are no options, so let's vote again, because that's the end of the work that we were working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u35	Turn on the microphone of the Peacekeeper MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u36	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear society, well, I want to tell you, if we're these small islands and Ukrainian language reserves that have survived, we're now going to let them privatize, "privatize" their media oligarchs. Yesterday we had a dangerous precedent on the committee, when, by putting out a bill that increases and allows Ukrainian content to leak on television and radio, I didn't get just because we have a mediaoligarchic lobby on the committee. The same will apply to newspapers. Therefore, the budget funds are financed by the public media, which highlights the local community’s view. If they are prejudiced, let us talk together about this prejudice and control it. But at the same time, to put all the media into private hands so that those political forces and those public figures who don't have the funds can't have access to the perspective and express their point of view to the audience, we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u37	I got the offer. Irina Heratschenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, you can give dozens of examples. When, for example, we had a magazine called "The Tax Payer," and every taxpayer was required 600 bracelets a year to sign it. In whatever language, they will praise the governor, Russian, or Ukrainian if the newspaper is read only by the governor himself and imposed on readers. It seems to me that the State must protect the Ukrainian language by keeping it in order because of the quality of our Ukrainian advertising. And I think we need to trust the groups of newspapers here, which are patriots who are Ukrainian-speaking. And they're going to be promoting Ukrainian, including in the regions. And in fact, that's how we're with you, making public language today, leaving this Soviet reserve, and who else, patriots, the Freedom Party, who are supposed to be the most patriotic, liberal party in Ukraine. I think we need to vote on that. We cannot leave this reserve of governors, which today is really this communal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u39	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u40	Dear friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u41	Colleagues, calm down, please calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, today the circuit newspaper serves only the district’s management. There from A from I about the head of administration, about his deputies at the state expense. Let's be honest. For example, I want to tell you that these circuit newspapers don't even want to print the National MP's greetings to the Passover. And they say, "Give the money," despite the status of the Ukrainian national MP. They shouldn't be. There must be a community newspaper. And the law Tomenko is proposing is right, and we have to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u43	Please turn on the microphone. Please. Or from the rostrum. He's the author of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u44	Dear colleagues! I'm the author of this bill. And what I mean is that I was rightly criticized for not mentioning in my previous speech the Humanitarian Council with the President of Ukraine, who was preparing the Public Television Act. And there's a special merit here, and there's Hanna Herman, who works a lot in that direction. As for the logic of this bill, the honourable colleagues, it is continuing the Law that we have approved with you. The competition for mediation, the permission to work, not for the authority or head of the administration, or for the head of the council, or for the officials, but for the society itself. The creation of public councils, the creation of normal media is the only European concept that we have prepared together and worked together. And these two laws are complementary. They are not the ones who pose a threat. Dear colleagues! Please be active. And I'm talking to our colleagues from the Party of Regions who also share these approaches. So let's vote together for this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u45	Turn on Mikhail Chechchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! We fully agree with Mr. Miroshnichenko, and we would support this Act today if it were not one "but". Tonight, a conveyor of the deaths of innocent civilians was included in the South East, a conveyor of the destruction of the country. That's why we asked you to consider it first. (Noise in the hall)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u47	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. The death conveyor included a party of regions when it wanted to miss all of Ukraine through this conveyor. And please pick your words when you speak. Dear colleagues! I'll give you a chance to say it. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. The only thing I can see, dear colleagues, is so many hands. I'll remind you, this is the second reading, we're not discussing the issue at all. I'm making an exception. Let's make a decision by voting, not by speaking. Please turn on the Zarubin microphone MP, and I'll give you a chance to make a replica. Who's going to say "Freedom"?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u48	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I have an offer to address this issue from a pragmatic point of view rather than an emotional point of view. And the pragmatism is that where there's competition, there's a higher quality of the product. Well, agree with that. If you take any area, you always know that according to the ratings of influence, authority, popularity, in the end, always in the hierarchy are the very first papers and not the media that, let's say, provide the interests of the authorities. So this, even as Miroshnichenko said right, competition, in terms of quality, is a positive constructive pragmatic step. That's why we can improve the state line so people can read these newspapers, you know? To make them popular, not just because they are imposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, the People's MP's Replication of Freedom from the Freedom faction, and we will make a decision, not by discussion, but by voting. It's the second reading, my friends, it's not a matter of discussing the law. I couldn't have given anyone a word under the Rules. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u50	Ruslan Marcinkov. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to remind my colleagues that Janukovich's previous government destroyed the district radio, the district televisions, especially in Montenegro were shut down because the only Ukrainian word was actually on these state and municipal channels. So, gentlemen, today the money has been stolen from the oligarch, and now it's targeting the media and the media, which, especially in Central, Eastern Ukraine today, are giving the Ukrainian word. So, ladies from Komsomol, I would like to ask you not to serve the oligarchs today and not to do anything today to privatize the occupied information space where you will not hear the Ukrainian transmission today, the Ukrainian word. And today you are actually serving the interests of those oligarchs who want to dominate our nation and want to occupy the information space. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, let's make a decision now. There's an offer for re-reading. Do you copy, Mikolo Volodymyrovich? I will then give the floor to Deputy Opanaschenka. Do you want to take the second one again? Please turn on Tomenku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, of course, I support the second reading again if the second one has not passed. But my colleagues who are in pain for Ukrainian media, first of all, would like to be more careful. There's no radio, no television, it's all about printed media. Secondly, these print media, today it's the turn of journalists, labor groups who ask: give us the opportunity to write, without the nakedness of the head of the administration, what's going on in the area. The first year, we're only dissipating by the agreement of the labor groups. One year later, two years later, when the discussion begins, which newspapers can hold and work. We're not going to meet journalists and labor groups today who are tired of printing "darks" and messages from officials either from one party or from another. So as a compromise, let's at least do the second one again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u53	Dear colleagues. I'll give you a chance to say it after the vote. Dear colleagues, the offer is for re-reading. Is there no objection? None. I ask the honourable colleagues to support this law for a second reading and now to vote together. Please include the Council system and decide on Parliament's second reading of the draft Law on Reforming Public Channels and Printed Media, registration number 2,600. Please vote. [[16:52:34]] For 197 The factions, please. We didn't support the decision. For 197. 0 - "Regions", 77 – "Paternity", 31 – "PART", 32 – "Economic development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 30; 0 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 27. Dear colleagues! Please, Deputy Opanaschenko insists on a rep.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! Well, I'd like to answer to a colleague of Tomenko's, who's taking the offense, it's a man's lack of strength and no respect for you at all. What about the bills that refer to information? We see that we have lost the information war. That our people were put on to each other on simple issues, such as language. And one of the points, and the main tasks, in accordance with the Constitution, is to provide information space security for the state. You just can't exclude the state from the information space! How will she follow the article of the Constitution? That's why I asked for these laws to be amended. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, we're looking at a project right now. Colleagues, please, let's not do a replica on the line. We don't waste time. 0985, this is a draft of the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Heritage Forming, with proposals from the President. This is a re-examination of the President's proposals, which has a separate procedure. I ask for the parliamentary rostrum, I invite the first Deputy Justice Minister, Emilian Inna Ivanovna. Please. Dear colleagues, please call the deputy minister. Maybe I'm talking silently into the microphone. I can speak louder. On the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Heritage was not signed and was returned to the Supreme Council with the following proposals. Proposals were made regarding the granting of powers by this law to rural councils, village councils, and their officials in local self - government bodies to do notary work on the formation of an inheritance. The Supreme Council committee, I'm going to take a look at the amendments then, and the Supreme Council Committee has taken part in the President's proposal. And I'd like to pay attention to these things right now. That we can agree to the transfer. with the assignment of officials of local self - government authorities to take action on the issue of an inheritance only on condition that such an official would necessarily have a higher legal education, provided that the official would have experience in the field of law for at least three years. You know, too, that for a citizen to become a notary, he must be an intern. Such requirements should also apply to officials of local governments. It's supposed to be an internship during the year. In addition, you will receive appropriate training in registering. Today, notaries go through six months of enrollment training, an inheritance form. In this regard, the authorities and officials of local self - government should be given similar requirements within six months to receive appropriate training. At the same time, Ukraine’s inheritance documents should be kept for at least 75 years. This means that appropriate archives must be created in local governments, where these matters could be stored for 75 years and then transferred to State archives. Next. To this day, notaries also have a responsibility of about 1 million dollars. A similar liability insurance should be introduced if the authority of the local government is exceeded or unlawfully committed in the course of the inheritance process, and this will be brought before the courts so that the local authorities can also bear the responsibility to enable citizens to raise the funds. We suggest that an insurance institution be established for local self - government authorities as well. In addition, every job must be connected to the register. I want to bring to the attention of the distinguished people's deputies that one job on average is 10,000 dollars. This equipment is suitable, except for the connection to the registers. Given that amount, almost 11,000 gulps today, we realize that this local self-government will cost 117 million dollars. But if local self - government creates the right conditions for those I have listed, it is possible to agree only under these conditions to give them authority in parallel with notaries, I emphasize, not only them, but also that a person has the right to alternatively either apply to notaryus, or to the local self - government authority for the formation of an inheritance. This is the first time. And secondly, we propose that this law take effect as of 1 January 2016, so that local self-government authorities will be able to fulfil all of these conditions and to ensure that citizens' rights to inheritance are properly realized both in the Notaryus and in the local self-government authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I beg of you. Now I'm going to remind you before the word has been given to the Mishchenko People's Deputy, I take it, I remind you, Your Honor, that we have a difficult procedure, but I understand. We can either approve with the President's proposals -- 226 votes, or we can pass the veto on this law -- 300 votes, or in any part, when we approve of the President's proposals -- it's also 300 votes. Dear colleagues, we will not be with you. Open the Rules, I've got an open page. So two options: either 226 -- all of the President's proposals to approve, or we're changing one of them -- we need 300 votes, or we need to overcome the veto. So please, please, Sergey Grigorovitch, on the rostrum, so that you can clearly offer the room that you're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. At last, in almost six years, we have come to the final consideration of this one of the most painful issues that our voters are asking us to resolve. And the question here is not just about creating an inheritance with local self-government. I mean, village heads and village heads. The question is that this bill removes the valuation of property for the first and second successions. I mean, what an absurd principle now is that when children make an inheritance from their parents, they have to go to the evaluator to evaluate their parents' inheritance, and this evaluator gets thousands of dollars for it. It's not the money that goes into the budget, it goes into the pockets of specific individuals. Why is this being done? And it's very banal. Because the property testimonial has this point: the value of the property. So in order to fill this point, the kids are going to the evaluator to evaluate this property. Although under the Tax Code, we have a zero rate and why evaluate it if it's not taxed. For the second line, we're getting married, we're taking it down now. But what is the point of appreciating children’s possessions? For other categories of loved ones, he must buy his own house several times. It is clear, then, that we are cleaning up this corrupt component for those who have fallen into this inheritance. And that's the main question. So I thank the citizens of Ukraine who sent thousands of letters to the Supreme Council, to each of the deputies, to the head of our country, to the Ministry of Justice. I thank you to the faction leaders who raised this question from this rostrum in six years. I am grateful to the Minister of Justice who has come to realize that these problems must be solved. Because it will not dissipate itself. With regard to another topic of site formation. I will remind you that in Soviet times, the head of the village council formed an inheritance. There the procedure was very simple, the name of the dead person in the home book was crossed out, the heir wrote it down, stamped it, and everything. Now the other procedure is we have registers, we have programs that can't handle notaries themselves, there's no alternative. This law offers an alternative. A person can go to a notary or (this law is proposed) or to the head of a pickle. Because that's how we reduce the sequence that now exists in the district centers when people don't get to the notary for years and form an inheritance. Please, you have an alternative: come here or go to the head of the pickle. I understand that the head of the pickle needs to be taught during this time. And that's why we're setting a period. That period we set out for 6 months, the Ministry of Justice points to January 1, 2016. Because the archives need to be formed, because we need to teach the notary actions of this head of silage. Thus, a computerized system is needed to have access to the base so that a simplified program, which is now said to be able to break a leg there. And that's why I'm confident that each of the factions has to speak out on this point, how we adopt this law. But we have to accept it. And the second. Alexander Valentine's Day, we accept, taking into account some of the proposals of this bill, and these are already new proposals from the President, and this is a new law. Because according to the Rules, we don't overtake the veto. It's a new law and it doesn't need 300 votes, it needs 226 votes, that's who works in regular.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u59	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u60	The deputies who work here for a long time. We have adopted these laws on a number of occasions, and we have indicated that this is a new law and we have voted by 226 votes. And yet, there's a proposal from some factions regarding two Presidential proposals -- this is the President's fifth and sixth proposals -- to put it on the stand to determine whether they need to be confirmed or not. Because these. Two suggestions don't affect what I said, an inheritance. They're from another field. So I don't object to putting them on the stand and determining the hall, voting or not voting. But without these two suggestions, nothing will happen. So I'm asking for these five now. Put the fifth and sixth amendments to the vote, to the vote, and others to adopt, the law in the paper, with the proposals now being made by the leaders of groups and factions, what Minust said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, I'll explain. Sergey Grigorovitch, you can sit down. I have a rule before me, colleagues. We have several solutions for any matter related to the President's veto. First, to reject the law is 226 votes, the simplest formula; to overcome the President's veto is 300 votes. In cases where they're partially changing, they're accepted, they're partially not taking positions, even though one position of the President is not accepted, it's actually a veto about this position, it's 300 votes, and you're not doing anything here. This ex-representative of the President can confirm that. So in part, even though one is changing position, it's 300 votes. There's nothing you can do. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Sergey Grigorovitch, or all of them are adopted – 226 – or even though one is 300 votes – to enact the law as a whole. So I have a proposition that we don't burn down the law, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, pay attention! Ivan Grigorovich, Sergey Grigorovich, please, attention! In order for the law to be important, I agree with Sergey Grigorovich, so that it doesn't go away, I propose, it's also a regular rule, 226 votes for that, to be sent to the committee for work, and. to the second reading, in general, and to entrust it with a reduced procedure. Is this format accepted, Sergey Grigorovich? Otherwise, we'll just burn down the law. I'm speaking objectively. Please turn on MP Mishchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u62	Alexander Valentine's Day, I think it's a very important question right now, because I've already said more than once that sociology puts it first in law. It's not just a question of rural areas, it's a question of urban people, because it's not just a house, it's an apartment that won't be appreciated in cities for close relatives. So it's easier to put it down. Please give each faction and group a minute, and let them speak out. Secondly, we're going to put that bill and those proposals that the committee made, including for confirmation of the 5th, 6th proposal, plus the one that the Ministry of Justice is proposing after the statements of the MPs and factions, if that's what it is, and then if it doesn't get 300 votes, as you say, then we're going to have to think about bringing it back to committee for work, but I have to say that everyone should vote now: both regionals and communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u63	Colleagues, regionals, and communists will not vote. You understand that. This is the first time. Secondly, once again, we can't make the mix. Colleagues, I can only bet according to the Rules. Although one amendment is not adopted by Parliament, it is necessary for the law to take effect 300 votes, because the President could only make one amendment, and yet the veto had to be overcome. Turn on the microphone to the National MP, Philippeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u64	Thank you, Mr. Head. The Economic Development Group fully shares your position on the fact that such an important bill needs to be sent to a profile committee in order for them to develop it and bring it up to date with the proposals just discussed by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, because if we don't take these proposals into account, the positions regarding the postponement of its entry into force, the positions on the legal education of those who are actually providing notarial services, this law will not work in the village, and we will do even worse for the village. That's why we're going to support this bill for re-reading to the profile committee, but at the same time, we ask that all the right proposals that the First Deputy Minister has said be worked out by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u65	National MP. Out of the way, please! Miroshenko, please. I see the hand of the National Deputy Bondar and the People's Deputy of Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I think the initiative of our colleague Sergey Mishchenka is extremely important, and people are waiting, especially in rural areas, for this law. But from a technical point of view, from the point of view of implementation, I think it's faster now that this law doesn't go through, that it's already going to be done by both the Ministry of Justice and the authors, and it's going to be accepted quickly. Otherwise, we're facing a 300-voice situation. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u67	National MP Bondar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill, which is extremely important for all residents today, especially in rural areas. But we do realize that there are huge legal questions today regarding the absence of 300 votes in the hall today. And unfortunately, we see the position that the Communist Party is not in the room at all during the consideration of such a bill, half of the faction of "Regions" is not there, and we understand that it's just going to collapse. So there's a proposal -- what the colleagues just said -- to bring him back to the committee, to work on it, to set a deadline, and to make it a complete failure, or a second option, and to introduce a new bill that will allow the issue to be resolved right now. So there's a proposal to ask this question and to turn it into a legal one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pankevitch. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u70	Oleg Pankevitch, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, our faction will always support the bills that are designed to address the most disadvantaged people who have been robbed by different regimes for many years. We're very concerned that this bill doesn't go to the committee right now, and that's where it's gone under the dress again. Why did the other committees fail to resolve the issue? I can't agree that executives now, criticizing the project, don't solve this issue for many years, too, with different powers, different coalitions. You can't hide that question. If we postpone it, a specific term should be set. This question needs an urgent solution. People do not understand why their parents often have seven cycles of hell to pay for their family’s house.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u72	which are often larger than the property itself. So clearly, if we postpone, carry, we set a specific term, not just by our tools, very subtle again, we hide the problem by lobbying interests or notaries or any other structures that are being exploited. Thank you. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u73	Please. People's MP, Muggles.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u74	Thank you for the opportunity to say a few words, Alexander Valentinovich. I want to tell you first of all that this law is not necessary for the Ministry of Justice. People need him. And today it's clear that it's a "food" for many who don't want to put these powers in the village today to really solve people's problems. We can't come to the county, we've already heard that this bill has to be, you just come to the county, and they say, "When are you going to decide it? Why don't you decide?" How do you explain to people that a bill that people really need is 300 votes in the room? And six years, six of them are pushing! We ask you very much, Alexander Valentine's Day, to make a political decision, to vote today, to get 226 votes, and then we'll work something out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! I would like to vote with great pleasure. I'm the only one who comes out of the Rules. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's make a statement and make a decision. But you can get out of here, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u76	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I'm going to say a little bit about the history of the adoption of this law. Before the election campaign, people were asking this one of the key questions. And then they voted on the left and the case, but they voted cunningly before the elections, and after the elections, they took the law and made a vow. And including those who first screamed, they wrote proposals about the veto. And again today they say, let's get together, because this is going to be the wrong thing to do. The point is that we have a decision to make today, I support colleagues, including a colleague of Pankevitch. We can vote, the committee has considered, take into account some of the proposals from the committee, and adopt the law in the new edition. But I understand that there are strong groups of lobbyists who are behind these evaluation firms and they don't want to lose these flows. Let’s not play with people, or go to the district and tell people why a house that has been built for the rest of your life is worth 10,000! [[Applause]] Where can a person take this money?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u78	And they live by the principle: "We don't sow, we don't feed, we don't build, we're proud of the social order." Let's make the right decision, play enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u79	I fully support the offer. Dear colleagues! People's deputy Kugel, and we'll make a decision. Because while we're talking, there won't be enough people in the room to take him in. Let's talk. Please, Alexandra Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u80	Alexander Valentine's Day, literally a second. That's the president's comment that he doesn't have. You have one day to change your comments or remove them, and we'll put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, do you know, unlike the predecessors? Azarov loved that word very much.) I have to act within the law and the Constitution. If I could change the last number of decisions, I would. But I have no right to do that. This is really an inheritance veto we have received from the ex-President of Ukraine Yanukovich and his political power, who voted and then made a commitment to this law. This is a fact. At the same time, I very much want to help him accept it. As soon as possible. In view of our being placed within the consecrated law, there is a very simple format. Now we have 226 to support the commission of this law. And that's going to be the second reading. Not the first, but the second reading of this law. And make the second decision: by a reduced procedure, bring him into the hall. And I guarantee you, in two weeks, I'll put him in the voting room as a whole. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. God damn it, we're going to get 226 on it now. So I'm asking, honourable colleagues, to vote on the proposal to direct this law to the committee to work on it. Please support, 226 is required. This is the second vote, please. [[17:18:00]] For 235 Decision taken. Right now, let's not split up, we're voting on a reduced procedure for making this decision. And then I'll show you the factions. Because this will be a binding vote. It's a short-term procedure. Please also support the proposal to consider this law so that we can adopt it as a whole in two weeks. Please vote. [[17:18:30.]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! In factions, please let us see who votes. 0 – Party of Regions, 68 – Fatherland, 28 – Impact, 31 – Economic Development, 29 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 40. Dear colleagues! I ask the committee not to be drawn to this issue, and for two weeks it was ready to enter Parliament. So that we can take into account the suggestions that Sergey Grigorovitch insisted on. And what the Ministry of Justice said about the education and equipment of these sites, where it would accept the transformation of an inheritance. Dear colleagues, thank you. We've been through this difficult question. Now, now, now. And I'm asking, dear colleagues, we're now dealing with ratifications, ratification issues. The draft Budapest Ratification Act, I will now give the opportunity to the Budapest Convention on the Contract for the Carriage of Goods by Inland Waterways (CPW). Dear colleagues! Deputy Minister Bondarenko Andry Evgenovich. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u82	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The bill (No. 0078) on the ratification of the Bucharest Convention on the Contract for the Carriage of Goods by Inland Waterways is submitted to your consideration by the Acting President of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council. The bill has been drafted for the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation. The ratification of this convention is based on the need to harmonize international shipping rules by inland waterways, which will remove obstacles to the implementation of international cargo transport by Ukrainian carriers and expand their participation in shipping.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u83	Andrija Evgenovich, I apologize, the MPs say that you made your first sentence, and they understand whether or not, what the law of ratification is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u84	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u85	It's important, isn't it? Tell me, an important law, an important ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u86	It's a very important law. We are the only country in the Danube area today that has not ratified this convention. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u87	This is a specific speech. Dear colleagues, I understand your position. The only country to ratify is in the interests of our country. Therefore, honourable colleagues, 0078 is the draft Law on the Ratification of the Budapest Convention on the Contract for the Carriage of Goods by Inland Waterways. Please sit in your workplace and support this bill on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[17:21:59]] For 221 Dear colleagues, let us disgrace the country before Europe. I ask you again to sit in my workplace. Please make an announcement to the Secretariat that MPs do not work in accordance with their constitutional credentials. Please ask all national deputies to take their seats. Focus. I ask you to return to this question, please return to this question. Please vote back to question 0078, the issue of ratification. Please vote. [[17:22:47]] For 232 We can if we want. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask you to support on the basis and as a whole the draft Law on the Ratification of the Budapest Convention on the Contract for the Carriage of Goods by Inland Water Transport. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:23:12]] For 232 Decision taken. The factions, please. 0 – Regions, 75 – Fatherland, 27 – Impact, 32 – "Economic development", "North Ukraine" – 39, 34 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 35. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the inclusion of the agenda of the session. And we have a few questions. The Committee on Fuel and Energy requires three first laws to be considered next time in the agenda. We've got it. Let's take each one or the bag? How about a package? A package? No, no, no. Then let's not work with a pack, we'll work with one. Law 4700: draft National Anti-Corruption Service Act. Dear colleagues, is it understood that corruption must be combated? Turn on the microphone of the Chumak People's Deputy. But I'm asking you, no discussion, dear colleagues. We've discussed this once before 10 times. We need to make decisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has been accompanied by either a deplorable error, or service negligence, or some other part. Because we have registered two drafts of Laws 4573 and 4573-1 on the same issue. We didn't put them in order last week. On the Web site of the Supreme Council, they appeared as rejected, which is an absolute lie because we did not actually vote for them. And a draft of Law 4700 came into existence. I think it's just an attempt without competition to introduce some kind of bill alone and then to get Bill 4573 out of the way. I want to address you, Alexander Valentine's Day, and I want you to give an order to the Apparatus, first of all, to return the entry for consideration, maybe to review laws 4573 and 4573-1, and most likely if you continue to work legally,
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u89	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u90	Call off the bill 4700, please. That's why I'm asking you not to vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I can put you to the vote now. I ask the head of the committee to be careful. It's an offer. Three laws to include no questions. These alternatives then come out with laws. And I'm proposing that, honourable colleagues, three laws 4700, 4573 and 4573-1 in view of the fact that they are actually regulating one issue, they are alternative, and we can immediately vote three of them on inclusion in the agenda. Is it accepted? Roger that. Please, Your Honor, support me. These issues relate to the fight against corruption in relation to the national anti - corruption service. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:26:33]] For 168 Honorable deputies. Colleagues! 168. The decision is not taken. By factions, please, who doesn't want to fight corruption. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 77 for, Strike for 25, Economic Development is 0, Sovereign European Ukraine is 12.34 for Freedom, 0 for Company, 20 for non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I honestly believe that we should fight corruption in a more inspired way. We only have something to do in the regions and in the rallies to fight corruption. As soon as we have to make a decision, we have some sort of breakthrough here. Again. Do you want to turn on the microphone? Turn on Chumaku's national deputy microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, if there are three draft laws, I ask all factions and all groups to vote. It's very important -- draft laws. I think each faction will be determined by voting in essence. But now I ask you very much to put these draft laws in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, I can put this question to the vote again. People's deputy Blagodir.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u94	Dear colleagues! The parliamentary group "Supreme European Ukraine" will strongly support all anti-corruption initiatives in the hall. There are anti-corruption standards that work in Europe. But, Alexander Valentinovich, if we want a positive vote and the adoption of a real anti-corruption bureau, we will vote in favour of a government bill. So don't put this question to a second vote, let the government prepare a bill -- it's a basic institutional document that's supposed to suit the Euro-standards of human rights, and then we'll support all the halls, I'm sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u95	I mean, dear colleagues, I understand that the hall is not ready to vote now. Jacenko, the national MP, wants to support me so I understand the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u96	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! So in these laws, the only thing that doesn't exist is "torture investigation" and all the other things if. You read it "in person," as they say, and all deputies, so, in fact, it's not even a steel standard here, it just comes to mind -- it's an Inquisition that was in 16 or a cause, something like that. That's why we understand very well, our group, as they say in the film, remember, "the desire will set the old schoolmate somewhere else for the job." This law really cannot be passed, nor should it be raped here, saying that all the corrupts here are ironic. This law is inconvenient because it contravenes European standards and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to understand the proposal made by the deputies that before this the government should be instructed to make a draft law on this matter, yes or no. Because I'm just, I can put three votes again. But I don't see any voices in the room around that question. So let's give the protocol commission of the Cabinet of Ministers to immediately introduce a draft law that regulates the relevant issue. It's what the country needs. This issue should be settled. And there must really be an institution in the state that will specialize exclusively in fighting corruption. Dear colleagues, the next question, 4607, is the draft law amending existing legislation on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Can this law be included in the agenda? We can. Dear colleagues, please support inclusion. This is National MP Sobolev author of this project, 4607. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:30:57]] For 128 The decision is not taken; Parliament does not support it. By factions, please: 0 – Party of Regions, 67 – Fatherland, 5 – Impact, 0 – "Economic development", "North European Ukraine" – 7.33 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 16. Dear colleagues, I have been asked by the factions to refer to the decision of the Conciliation Council, where they have announced this issue, and they ask to include in order the daily draft Act amending Ukraine's Laws to guarantee the holding of presidential elections and the interim elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under conditions of emergency and martial law. This law takes into account the specificity, unfortunately, within which our country is working today. Dear colleagues, can we ask about the inclusion in the agenda of this issue? We can. Please, Your Honor, support, 4698, enrollment in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:32:03]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, and the last question that the MPs insist on putting into the agenda is the draft of Law 4249. It refers to amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Better Control of Action against Organized Crime and Anti-Corruption of Corruption and the Legalization of Laundering of Crime. These are the veterans of the Ministry of Internal Affairs that we have here in the Supreme Council, and they think we need to step up our position on the fight against crime in Ukraine. All we're talking about is getting into the agenda. He's been handed over to the people's deputies, and more than that, he's been supported by the committee. Dear colleagues! Is Giga's national deputy in the hall? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich! The problem is that AIDS is now incapacitated, more authority needs to be given to AIDS to remove weapons, end gangs in Ukraine. To do this, we need to strengthen it, and we need parliamentary control through the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. I ask all the MPs to support this bill, we will strengthen the Ministry of Internal Affairs. It does not apply to populist laws at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, please, let's now support the proposal to include our colleagues in the day-to-day proposal for law registration number 4249. Andrey Anatolyevich, do you want to do this? Andrew, I'll give you my word. Let's vote on that right now, I'll give you that. You'll be able to make your move. I request this law, once again, your esteemed colleagues, 4249, to the order of the day of our session. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[17:34:30.]] For-164 Dear colleagues, "yes" to 164. The decision is not taken. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, I would like to refer once again to our coalition colleagues on Bill 4698. I have already explained to many of your representatives of the two groups that there is a danger today that in some areas it may be necessary to introduce military status in some areas after a while. Not all over Ukraine, but only in some regions. And in order for this military state to help, however, stop and stop the terrorist activity of Russia in Ukraine, so that it does not interfere with the holding of presidential elections for the term, as well as the elections to the Supreme Council, there are two amendments to two bills. This is 4698. This bill is of great concern today, including the people in Ukraine, because unfortunately, we can't do it without the military, without the General Staff, without the Armed Forces. It gives you the opportunity to do that. Thank you. And then we'll see who's working on Russia's plan, who wants to break the President's election and who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, I can put 4698 again. The only thing I don't know is that the hall has the potential right now to support it. Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I think this is a very important law for Ukraine. I've also introduced a bill that determines that elections are pending and out of turn, if in a third of the areas a state of emergency or military status is declared, elections can be held. You can choose either one or the other. But we need to introduce such a law to protect people, to protect security in these regions, and to ensure the constitutional election of the President of Ukraine. I'm asking you, Alexander Valentine's Day, it's a very important question that we don't fail today. Let's vote that question tomorrow morning both in the first and second readings, let's define one of these laws. And I also have a proposal: Tomorrow it is imperative that the bill, Alexander Valentinovich, the one referring to the trenches, 2855, put it on a second reading in the morning, because that's where people die.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u103	I see. I'm happy to put it again. The only ones in the world who have the honor to have the votes. National MP Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! Can I have your attention for a moment? I very much ask you to go back to voting on the bill establishing the National Anti-Corruption Bureau -- 4573, 4573-1 and 4700. It's very important. First of all, these bills, or this bill, or this law, are very important for the second phase of visa liberalisation. This is the first time. Secondly, with this bill, European "donors" and Western "donors" are linked to receiving assistance from all financial institutions for Ukraine. Thirdly, I want to say that today the government cannot submit alternative bills under the Rules. So let's put these three bills in order of the day. Let's vote them in order of the day, and then the committee will work on a harmonized bill and put them into the hall. And we'll define ourselves in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m1.u105	Dear colleagues! Let's talk about it. I can do it now, wait, dear colleagues. Well, that's not a discussion. These are technical questions. I'll give you my word now. Colleagues! There are two important questions. I want to consult you, we can try to vote them again now. The only thing I doubt is that we're going to have a successful vote. We can go back to that question tomorrow. Tomorrow, isn't it? Now? Please, Your Honor, I ask once more questions about the inclusion in the agenda. I'll give you a chance, we'll vote and I'll give you a chance. You still don't vote. I'll let you perform. You can do as much as you want. And we have to vote, and we have to vote. Dear colleagues! There was 4700, 4573, 4573-1 -- this package of laws that regulate one problem -- about the National Anti-Corruption Service, to be included in the agenda. Colleagues! Our deputies insist, I can't refuse them. Please decide by vote on the inclusion of these laws in the agenda. Then we can decline if someone does not vote for the content. But with regard to inclusion, because they block the introduction of other laws, please vote. [[17:39:53]] For-164 The decision is not taken. For just 164 votes. The factions, please. 0 – Party of regions. 73 is Fatherland. 28 – SHOCK. One is Economic Development. 14 – "Northern European Ukraine". 34 - Freedom. 0 is a company. 14 – non-fractional. And the last question they insisted on putting it into the agenda, 4698. I put it back in order of the day, my esteemed colleagues. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to guarantee the holding of presidential elections and interim elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a state of emergency and war). Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[17:40:41]] For 183. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I see that Parliament. Dear colleagues, I say again, now we're going to pin each other down, but we're not going to get any bigger than that. Colleagues, I'm asking you to calm down. Tomorrow will be the desire of the national MPs, we can approach it. Dear colleagues, please. There's a proposal from the Yavorowski People's Deputy that we can vote, and I can see by the number of votes that are available in the room. The draft Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Investigate the Facts of the Mass Persecution of Drivers who were involved in peaceful protests using wheeled means of transport and attracting them to administrative responsibility. This is Project 4234. Can we vote on this establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote to the vote, please let's also define the basis for this project as a whole. Please vote. [[17:42:03]] For 157. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm calling to the hall. I'm going to make an announcement. There's a report from the National Deputies on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association for Ukraine's energy independence in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The interfractional MP was elected as the national deputy of Dombrovsky, Alexander Georgievic. The union included 13 national deputies. Dear colleagues! I can see that, unfortunately, we're not doing very well right now. I am addressing all the national MPs, and I have high expectations that in the night we will be able to come up with a memo that we spoke about after the big breaks that took place in the Supreme Council to hold consultations with the leaders of the MP factions. That's why I'm addressing all the national MPs. This can be a key, important decision, especially on the eve of Easter. And I ask that all national deputies be in the hall tomorrow and make decisions. Besides, tomorrow you and I will decide about the future work of the Supreme Council next week. Not next week, but next week. Let's figure it out. I understand, Your Honor. And I'm asking the honourable national deputies to have us all in the hall tomorrow and to work tomorrow. I announce that the Supreme Council will resume its work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye. And now we're finishing our work.
