ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm sorry we delayed the start of the evening session. I just had a meeting with the 51st Brigade's parents, and I couldn't finish this meeting before. Dear friends, we have many questions to ask. Let us now see how many deputies carry out their constitutional duty. I'm asking you, let's run the registration and assess the potential of the Supreme Council to make decisions. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:16:42]] There were 308 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council continues its work. Dear colleagues, we now have to look at Project 4710, this is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure that citizens are mobilized and guaranteed to perform military service at the time of mobilization. National deputy Orotuk Yuri Mikolaiovich will report this law. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we've decided on all the questions in the first reading to consider the simplified procedure. I can't see. Journalists stalled? Call me, please. We can consider the next question, dear colleagues. I'd like that. I know Mr. Orotuk is a disciplined MP. Please, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is this your first reading? No, no, second reading, Alexandra Volodymyrna. With love for you, let us start one of the first in our second reading. Well, we can't break up first. Let's go now. Dear colleagues, I don't see Mr. Orphan. Let's ask the next question. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Charities and Charities (on Charities). Please. Do we have the Department of Defense? Yes, I see Mr. Mehed Peter Mikolaiovich. Peter Mikolaiovich, on the rostrum, do not waste your time. The project has registration number 4514a. Please report to the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft law (registration number 4514a) has been developed by the Ministry of Defence to ensure a more effective implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the financial and material security of the State with a view to implementing mechanisms for the public collection of charitable contributions to finance the military readiness and functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The draft law proposes to amend article 7 of this law with regard to the non-proliferation of the specified restrictions on the organization of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine’s public relief congregation for the needs of the Armed Forces, which will be carried out in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the law will allow for an increase in revenue to finance the national defence of the State. The implementation of the draft act does not require additional costs from the state budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u3	Please, from the Kirilenko Viacheslav, the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u4	Dear voters, dear colleagues, the bill (4514a) came to the committee on Monday alone. That's why we haven't had a chance to consider this bill yet, but the committee secretariat has been working on a bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and in particular the Ministry of Defence, and it supports the adoption of this law on the basis and in general, understanding that it is necessary to unlock the possibility of collecting voluntary donations initiated by officials of the Ministry of Defence. And now there's no such thing as a professional law on charity and charities. At the same time, we propose article 1, paragraph 2, of the bill to be drafted, which we believe will be more precise, and perhaps the Ministry of Defence will pay attention and support us. Please make this sound like this: "The public collection of charitable contributions to ensure the military mobilization of readiness, combatability and functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is carried out by persons mentioned in sections 2-5 of this law in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." If this is the case, there are also officials who are granted permission and the order that will be determined at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the Ministry of Defense does not mind, we ask this right to support the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u5	I understood the position of the profile committee. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? There is a need to speak. Please sign up for the performance. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u6	Please pass the word to Oksani Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u7	Please turn on Oksana Petrovna’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u8	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! The Vitalia Klicka faction supports this bill because it deals with the use of the funds that were being raised for the Ministry of Defence, and I think most Ukrainian citizens have been calling "565, so making these technical changes is necessary to legitimize these costs. But at the same time, I pay attention to your honourable Parliamentary Head, and to all our colleagues, that we do not yet have a report from the Commission, which was created by the Supreme Council on how the funds paid by Ukrainian citizens are being used to support the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So I'd like to ask you, Valentina Alexandrovich, Alexandra Valentinovich, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Turkinov, assign the commission to report to the members of the Supreme Council, the results of this commission's work. Because people have collected money and are still working as volunteers, they continue to seek ways to provide our fighters eastwards with all they need to ensure their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am now giving a protocol commission to the commission that we have set up to verify the use of the funds, to provide a written report to the National Deputies, and in the event that we are not ready to report publicly to the Supreme Council, we are ready to make that possibility available at any time. Please. Dear colleagues. Next performance, Furman National MP, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u10	Alexy Furman, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! This bill is simply needed as air, because a lot of concerned Ukrainians are doing a social function in relation to the affected people instead of the state, and we have to contribute to it, because these collected funds, they're not income, so they can't tax. And there's a lot of references to me as a national MP from Winnitzkina, which means volunteers are just scared when the tax inspector comes to them for the following year and makes them pay their taxes. Many benefactors are notorious, sadly, for their legislation, which is unrelenting to such activities and thus entails a tax on individuals of up to 15 percent or more. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom will clearly uphold the law in the first reading. And we, the society, have to do everything we can to accept it in order to encourage people, charities to support our army and all the social work in general. Unfortunately, these bills were prepared by Mr. Kirilenko, they weren't voted on about two weeks ago, so I suggest in the first reading that I adopt this bill. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u11	Thank you. People's deputy Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u12	Honourable Alexandre Valentinovich and distinguished national MPs, the bill proposes to establish that a public fundraiser of donations to ensure the military mobilization readiness, resilience and functioning of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is carried out in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the one hand, the government is trying to adjust the collection procedure, which is unlikely to have a positive impact on the process of such a congregation in the absence of order adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. On the other hand, such order will help to reduce the number of fraudsters who use the situation to enrich themselves. The faction of the Party of Regions proposes to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u13	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. I see Alexander Ivanovich, I give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! We do have a parliamentary commission. And correctly noted Oxana Prodan's deputy to have a written report, and it's good that you've now given an assignment, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to give a written report to all the deputies about where the welfare funds are going from the citizens who are sacrificing to help our troops in the ATO zone. But I would ask you to set the deadlines, because I know as a major, I meet a lot of my voters, they say, all of the villages, all of the villages, they've been gathering for their soldiers, who are now in the ATO zone, and they haven't got any helmets or armor, not even food. So set a specific deadline for us to receive this report and report it to our electorate. As a person who is constantly making sacrifices to help the military in the Force, I think that this bill is very timely, it allows to increase the amount of funding, and as a result of more charitable funding it will go to our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u15	Please, one minute, Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u16	Of course, colleagues, the "Economic Development" MPs will vote in full. But what I want to remind you is that in five months, three U.S. Department of Defense units changed. And every department in the department was reprimanded by the fact that charity was not being used. Here we came to the law, and we went back to Law 4785, in which this rule was not voted. And I am addressing you, no matter how many ministers we appoint, even though in a day, this question can only be resolved in a way that is prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u17	Thank you. Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone. She's in charge of the commission she's talking about. She'll tell you about the readiness of this committee's report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I thank you all very much for raising the question that our commission should report to Parliament about our work. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council decree just stated that we should have our report in September. And we're ready to report for the next session week on Tuesday. We're asking you to set aside for that time. I promise you this will be a very thorough report. We received about 800 pages of answers to all our questions. Our commission works very closely with volunteers who do the same and care for the security of our army. We're working with the profile ministries. We, as you know, were in the ATO zone to see how our hospitals, military hospitals were provided, and so on. And I think we don't just have to report, but it's very important that we prepare a summary document there, which is going to be adopted by the Supreme Council on the basis of how to improve the work on providing our army and military medicine in the context of an anti-terrorist operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u19	Please, national deputy Yavorowski, one minute and we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, of course, "The Fatherland" fully supports this humane bill. It needs to be done because today such a situation has arisen, that in fact the volunteers and the people support the army, perhaps even more than our government supports it. At least the best way to get help is from volunteers — the Ukrainian people. Because of this, we are fully supportive. But what I'm trying to say is, society, today we think poor people today are literally pennies, pensioners, and at the same time, at some point, Kosuk, an official of the President's administration, is now receiving VAT in billions. Is he a poor man who can't live without it? Maybe for those billions you could buy new tanks at the Kharkiv factory that stand, buy them, and so forth. The same is true of the Cologne, as are the other officials. What is this? What is it, please tell me, that's the prom during the plague when people are barely attracted and officials are eating? But we support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this important issue, all those who wish to speak have been given the opportunity to make a statement of their position, and now let us make a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The project, I recall, registration number 4514a amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Charities and Charities (for charity donations). Please, colleagues, have a seat. The secretariat would like to invite members to the session room to make a responsible decision. Please, Your Honor, back up. There was a profile committee proposal on the basis of the whole, right? With the amendment announced by the head of the profile committee, respected colleagues The defences support this amendment. Please, Your Honor, vote as a basis and as a whole. Please. [[16:32:23]] For 238. Decision taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, regions – 25, 33 – Impact, Economic Development – 24.0 – SMS, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24.34 – Freedom, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, the National Deputy Sirotuk Yuri Mikolaiovich has approached and is inspired to report a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure that citizens are mobilized and guaranteed to perform military service at the time of the mobilization. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u22	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. The Society, on May 20, this year, we, Parliament, passed the Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Defence Mobilization Issues during Mobilization. In parallel, as you all recall, we obliged banks and other financial institutions to suspend the payment of interest to the debtors who were appointed to military service during the mobilization, to guarantee the preservation of jobs, and to ensure the level of wages paid for the mobilized to the ranks of the Armed Forces and the National Guard. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, a large part of the banks are not implementing this bill and we need to pay attention to the implementation of this bill. In addition, most of the rules of my bill 4710 were the basis of this bill. At the same time, several important things were overlooked. The committee and I insist that they be approved by Bill 4710. What's this about? It's about people who are now mobilized into the army, where they have to keep jobs, pay levels, when they're reinstated at work, they don't have to be subjected to any extra checks. There is a need to keep a record of individuals registered as private enterprises, a state registration for the period of service, with a suspension of taxes and other congregations. In addition, the State terminates the period of the tax and other congregations that require all businesses, natural persons who were called upon to mobilize. The important point is that this bill applies to all persons who were appointed to serve in the army before May 20, that is, before Law 4785 was passed. Similarly, two novices, we introduce, we reinforce criminal punishment for failing to comply with the law by the leaders of businesses who avoid mobilization. A minimum wage payment is also foreseen during the mobilization process. I suggest you support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u23	Thank you for the report. Dear colleagues! Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, I can't see where. The profile committee reports on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u24	High-profile colleagues, the aim of the bill submitted by the Ukrainian national MP Orphanyuk, is to establish additional guarantees for the social protection of persons called for during mobilization and to impose criminal responsibility for failure to perform military transport duties. The author of the bill was guided by the experience he had gained personally and all those who had been rehabilitated during an anti-terrorist operation. What I'm saying is that the Supreme Council Committee is also a professional and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administrations are supporting this bill. It is thought that accepting it will increase the social protection of military personnel. In view of the above, it is proposed that the draft law should be adopted as a basis and generally as a law, removing from its text the situation regulated by the Ukrainian Law of May 20, 2014 (number 1275). The author agrees. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u25	Dear National Deputies! Is there a need to discuss this? There's a need. Please sign in. National MP Rosenko wanted to speak and was given this opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u26	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Dear National Deputies! Now, unfortunately, we've been through this since these tense events in the East of Ukraine, and what's been happening in Crimea has already adopted a whole series of laws that protect and support and strengthen the social protection of all our military personnel, the volunteers that we have today engaged in anti-terrorist operations in the East. But we have a huge problem, Alexander Valentine's Day, it's a question to us, to you, as Head of the Supreme Council, that laws definitely don't want to do some, especially employers, and some banks. In the last week, I've just got a bunch of requests from a counter-terrorism operation where guys are complaining about getting fired, losing wages, and collectible banks are sending loans to the family. We made it clear that we were not allowed to do so. However, some commercial banks allow themselves to have such a hammocked attitude toward boys who protect Ukraine, including the property and persons of these commercial banks. So I would like to ask you to give a separate commission to both the National Bank of Ukraine and the Attorney General, to whom these boys' mass appeals are also taking place, so that there will be a special consideration of each issue, so that anyone who tries to exploit this tragedy of the boys will be immediately given the opportunity, and really bring criminal responsibility, to warn that both the National Bank and the Attorney General's Office will require compliance with the laws of Ukraine. And the strike faction is the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u27	I've got the position. Dear colleagues, I think this is a very relevant issue. We have to force both commercial banks and any firms to do the legislation that everyone has to do, regardless of the form of ownership, etc. And that's why I'm asking the Secretariat to form a mission to the National Bank to the Attorney General's Office to respond appropriately to a problem that has been declared by the people's deputy, Rosenko. It is indeed relevant, and it needs an immediate response. Dear colleagues, the next performance by the national deputy of Orotyuk. He's got the word from "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u28	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill contains another important element. Despite the fact that we must be able to strengthen the social protection of military personnel, mobilized, their families and implement the bills that we have adopted, because this is some kind of abuse of Parliament that we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic, and that laws that we, Parliament and Parliament, do not do wrong. That's why it has to be. The Attorney General has to pay attention to this. There's a lot of information that soldiers' cards in Lugansk, Donetsk district are blocked, loans in there, they can't take money out of cards and so on and so forth. But there is another important thing about this bill: there is a part of people who fight their lives with blood and protect Ukraine mobilized and there are those who avoid mobilization, there are those who buy money, there are those who flee, there are those who go abroad. This bill parallels increasing criminal responsibility for people who avoid mobilization or avoid the tasks set out in the mobilisation plan, and this is also a very important thing. Similarly, this bill foresees that all Ukrainian soldiers, regardless of the time when they were mobilized. They all fall under these social guarantees. They're giving up the last on their front, they're fighting for Ukraine, and we have to remember that this war is of a total character, and so we are here, in our seats, to carry out our mission -- to support our military personnel. For he who doesn't feed his army will have to feed another's army. We'll win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u29	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, my neighbor Odarchenko gave me the floor in the morning. I'm happy to cry to him in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u31	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u32	Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexander Valentinovich, is a very proper law. showing respect for the care of the Supreme Council by those who owe their duties to the Father today. True, we have enacted appropriate laws that allow us to regulate the payment of interest on loans and make it impossible to pay fines. These laws work, but the issue is very difficult to regulate. I would ask you to add to this commission that the National Bank should work out a very simple real method of removing interest and fines from those people who are now mobilized into the ranks of the Armed Forces or protecting our Motherland. The question is solved, but it is very difficult to settle. It seems to me that it would be right to make appropriate decisions at local levels today to show respect for those serving in the service today. For example, in Hersonish, decisions have been made to enable soldiers to take up their duties. More loyally, get land under construction or under private agriculture without any obstacles. Decisions that enable them not to pay for public services are made by city councils. Decisions have been made that children of military personnel can be healed in sanatoriums owned by local communities. It seems to me that we are at the level of the Supreme Council and of the local councils, we must adopt all the laws, the positions that would give us the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u33	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u34	We must take all the laws, all the decisions that would allow our soldiers to feel the care of those in the rear for their fate. Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u35	Please, People's Deputies, the faction of the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions also does not stand side by side with the problems faced by people who were appointed to serve in the military during a special period. But I would like to point out that some of the legislative initiatives proposed by the All-U.S. Freedom factions are unnecessary because they qualify certain officials of enterprises, institutions, organizations for non-compliance. Military-transport duty and compare it in fact from. Avoidance of mobilization is unnecessary because these actions are classified under article 365 as “abuse of service status”, since the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilisation in the case of a special regime requires the appropriate officials to provide adequate means of transport for defence purposes. Thus, they are already qualified according to the Criminal Code, so the article in question is unnecessary. In addition, I would like to point out that in the event that persons have been rehabilitated during a special period, their rights will not be fully protected, I mean labour rights, because only an amendment is made to article 119 of the Labour Code, which only refers to special checks that are not carried out in the event of their demobilization. In fact, it is necessary, for example, to change article 36 to article 40 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine. That's what I'm underlining. That we will support if we exclude the situation if it is now decided to make changes to the Criminal Code and make changes to the KZOT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u37	I've got the position. Dear colleagues! Let's talk about it. There was a proposal from the profile committee to accept the project as a basis and in general, taking into account the additions and adjustments that the author agreed with and that Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk spoke about. At the same time, I was about to hear an offer to redraft some of the positions of the law. Colleagues, can we do it in general? Or in the first reading? Dear colleagues, let's give it a try, I'm proposing in the first reading as soon as it's done, then we'll advise on voting in general so that we don't break the vote under this law. Please, Your Honor, support the draft law, registration number 4710, amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the provision of mobilization and guarantees to citizens who are engaged in military service at the time of recruitment. Please support this project on the basis. Please vote. [[16:47:29]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. 63 – "Paternality", regions – 12, "ADVANCE" – 32, 25 – "Economic development", the media – 0, traditionally, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 22.35 – "Freedom", and "freedom" – 39. Dear colleagues! I feel that we will still need to reform the law for second reading, because it was those who voted in favour of this law who suggested that it should be further worked out on the committee, that is to say, the second reading on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u38	Colleagues, a reduced procedure can we support? We can. Let us try to support the simplified procedure for preparing this law for second reading. Please vote. [[16:48:31]] For-182 Unfortunately, it is not supported. "For" is only 182 people's deputies. Please, Your Honor, let us be prepared to consider this law as soon as it is ready in the session room. The next question, your honorary colleagues, is registration number 4151a, this is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of the liquor market. But unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers, which passed this law, does not monitor how the Supreme Council works actively and effectively. Because the provisions of this bill are already regulated by the Law (Registration No. 2403) on the amendment of Article 230 of the Tax Code (for the control of the circulation of alcohol and liquor products), which has already been signed by the President on 29 August 2014. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the bill (registration number 4151) is taken off the table because we have already settled the issue. Next block of questions, distinguished national MPs. Colleagues, let's ratify now and I've heard your proposal. Dear colleagues, the next cluster of issues is the issue of ratification. The first is the draft Act ratifying the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in matters of local self-government. Dear colleagues, this is Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman. But I think the position is clear. Can we back it up right now? We can. Please, Your Honor, I'm addressing all the national MPs, so let's take our seats. The question is about the Charter of Local Self - Government. I don't know any political power that doesn't support this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Please sit on your posts and support the ratification of an additional protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-Government on the right to participate in matters of local self-government on the basis and in general, 0093 registration number. Please, dear fellows, we'll support each other, we won't waste any time. [[16:51:08]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The Supreme Council, you see, stands in the defense of local self-government. The next question, my fellow dignitaries, is the ratification of the Financial Agreement "Finalization of the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? We support each other so that the subway can be quality during the daytime. Please, Your Honor, support the financing agreement with the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0095). Well, please, the national deputy of Yavorowski. He'll be offering from Dnipropetrovsk to the Threefold Metro. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u39	Vladimir Yavorowski, a progressive Trinity Of course, we support, we understand very well that Dnipropetrovsk is a huge city, an industrial center, a scientific center. Of course, we need to support him, and we will vote in favour. But with such an opportunity, I would like to inform my constituents in Troas that in principle it is decided today that the ground subway is actually going to be made. The construction of the bridge from the left bank to the right bank is now being completed. And it's going to be a quiet solution, so this problem is going to be solved. The caller recently made a very firm statement. And it's going to be done right now, it's going to take about 3-3.5 billion to not turn on the electricity, not the tram, but actually the ground subway version. And then when we have the money, we can do it on the right bank, go underground, and go out to the general subway. So the question is this is going to be solved even in these difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I see how active the people's deputies have become, and I understand that you are all very close to the subject of the subway, because you are all on the subway to the Supreme Council. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u41	Respectful colleagues will certainly support this initiative of our neighbors to the day - to - day propellers. But I want to remind you all that in Ukraine a unique construction has been under construction since 2003 in Zaporozhye. In the meantime, Zaporozhye City collects 7 billion dollars a year, so we could build 20 of these bridges. So please, fellow Members, in the future Parliament, which will meet here, such an all-conceived, pure, smoldering population, don't forget that there is a city of Zaporozhye and there is a city that has military strategic significance. And this bill I am asking for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u42	The national MP is insolent and we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u43	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, we need to support and build the subway in Dnipropetrovsk. But I want to say that in Kharkiv city, the construction of the subway is stopped, and all the workers who can do these jobs don't understand why it's done. Not one president, and all the presidents of Ukraine in turn promised to build up, find funds and help the city of Kharkiv solve the problem. What I'm trying to say is that Kharkiv is number two in Ukraine and not solving this issue is making the socio-economic situation more difficult. So by fully supporting the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk, I would ask the government of Ukraine to find funds and to fund the construction that has already been done in Kharkiv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I see everyone in their speeches is supportive. At the same time, I'm drawing your attention to the ratification of the Financial Agreement with the European Investment Bank. I think that the leadership of Kharkiv, this great city, can also work in this direction to obtain credit resources, and we will gladly ratify this agreement. Dear colleagues, I would like to support on the basis of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement on the "Final completion of the construction of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk" between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0095). Please vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[16:56:05]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question. Draft law. The factions? Please show the factions. Parenthood – 58, regions – 36, 34 – Impact, 28 – Economic Development, USM – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, 35 – Freedom, non-fractional – 45. Dear colleagues, next question. Please be careful. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Nuclear Research Organization (SERN) concerning the granting of the status of an associate member in SERN. Colleagues, Minister of Education Sergey Mironovich Flower wants to explain what SERN is. But I think we can back it up or not? Realizing that this is a very serious institution. This is the center, I take it, of the European Nuclear Research Organization. Please, Your Honor, we support the accession of the associated members of Ukraine to the Centre of the European Nuclear Research Organization. Vote your honors, please. [[16:57:34]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you, dear fellows, for not letting the minister speak; he had a desire. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (the Bescadian Railway Tunnel Project) Construction of the Beskid Tunnel) between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. No discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u45	Need a tunnel? It's necessary. Dear colleagues, please support the construction of the Beskid Tunnel and the desire of the European Investment Bank to finance this construction. Please, do we have a minister's infrastructure? Deputy Minister Malin Alexander Lvović, the MPs are asking where the tunnel is. Tunnel, where is it? Dear colleagues, this is a strategic tunnel between Lvivsk and Zakarpatsk. Understand? I see. Colleagues, everything under control, please support. Please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Registration No. 0092). Please vote. [[16:59:26]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this with you. The factions, please. 58 – "Fatherhood", "regions" – 29, 32 – "BACK" – 27 – "Economic development", "MS" – 0, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 29.35 – "Freedom", 45 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, it is an inspiration to work on and ask the national MPs to support the two laws in the second reading before we re-examine the President's proposals and make decisions on the issues under discussion. This is the subject of a project to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code on certain matters of charity taxation. We just talked about this with you. This law is supported by many factions and parliamentary groups. And I ask you, Vitaly Yuriovich, very briefly -- in the Committee's editorial opinion, there's a feeling that we're going to vote now, it's an important, really, law for us to address the issue of charity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u46	Honourable Alexander Valentinovich, honourable colleagues, the committee was working on a bill in the Presidential Bill (4455), but before the final work, we have added to the initiative of the people’s deputies, who were considered in Parliament, namely, we have merged this project with the project of the People’s Deputies, Kinaha and Lášk. And their proposals are also attached to the bill. I would like to briefly remind you that the President has been asked to exempt the income tax of natural persons from the charitable aid provided by the charities involved in an anti-terror operation. It was also added that individuals living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and who were forced to leave their homes in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine would be released from the PPF. There are also individuals who live in areas where there is an antiterrorist operation or who have been forced to leave their homes in connection with an antiterrorist operation at such locations. And third, they are participants in mass protests in Ukraine, who suffered injuries, injuries, or other health injuries during the campaign from 21 November to 28 February, as well as on 2 May in Odessa. Therefore, all these proposals were united in the bill. And the whole point is that if people get help, benefit in any way, they don't have to pay the income tax. The only thing here, we have for the transcript, I'm going to read from the committee, in amendment 3 of my and Oksana Sales, in sub-paragraph 1 of the bill to exclude the eighth paragraph, which begins with the words "the order of identification of participants in the mass protests in Ukraine and members of their families, natural persons who live in the territory of the population where they are being held." And according to the text below, this position is proposed to be excluded. It's such a technical thing. In general, the proposal is to vote in favour of the bill in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, the proposal has been understood by all the national MPs. I ask you to sit down and support the proposal made by the committee head to adopt a draft law on second reading, registration number 4455a, I remind you, this is a draft law amending the Tax Code on certain matters of welfare taxation, on second reading, and on the Committee as a whole. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal and vote in the second reading and in general. Please. [[17:04:08]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The next question in the second reading is also very important, it's a draft law on temporary measures for the duration of an anti-terrorist operation, a second reading. I'll remind you, the law was being prepared for a reduced procedure of preparation. Please, the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, the regulator of antimonopoly policy, Dougel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u48	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, to you personally and to all the national MPs who have been very actively involved in preparing for the second reading. And what I want to say is that this bill provides for what ATO is, like we did in the first reading, there's a moratorium on pennies and fines on the principal amount of debt. Third, it's a moratorium on checks by authorities and officials, the only supplement that out-of-plan checks where there's a high degree of risk, if decided by the Cabinet of Ministers, can be done if mines, chemical plants, coxochemical plants are to be abandoned. Allowance documents, licenses, permits continue to operate automatically for the duration of an anti-terror operation. Exemption from payment for the use of state and municipal property land, cancellation of rent for the use of state and municipal property; moratorium on the payment of pennies for the untimely payment of rent and rent for residential utilities; conservation of mortgage assets; confirmation of unbreakable force, i.e. force majeure. What I'm saying is that there's no abuse we've taken into account the amendment by Oksana Prodan in the part that the list of areas that fall within the scope of this law is determined by Kabmin all the time if they are updated. It's better if they narrow down, but don't let it be uncontrollable. Please support in the second reading, the amendments are all accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u49	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, can we support this law in the committee's editorial work? I understand that Alexander Volodymyrna said there, and the questions of force majeure are also defined by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u50	Yeah. It's all written out. It says: for a small business, free small, medium-sized business, medium-sized and medium-sized business, at a cost of 7 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u51	Thank you. Sit down, Alexandra Volodymyrna. Dear colleagues, Alexandra Volodymyrna has proposed to support the committee’s law, taking into account all the amendments that have been taken into account. Including Oksani Sold. Please, Your Honor, sit on your posts and decide on the support of Bill No.4313a on second reading and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. Please make up your mind. [[17:07:32]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to identify ourselves with a long - suffering law that we have discussed many times, but we have not been able to identify the deputies in any way, a government that deals with the tax rate. This is a draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to clarify tax obligations on the income of enterprises and the value added tax in the case of the application of tax compromise. I remind you, fellow believers, this is a second reading, and we have already done this several times, 4930. Let me remind you, we didn't put this question to a vote just because there was no position, no common position between the government and the committee on the rate applied to tax compromise. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u52	Now I ask, Vitaly Yuriovich, head of the Committee on Tax, Customs Policy, is there an agreement with the government or not, can we vote on the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u53	Colleagues, the point is that if we don't vote on this bill now, it doesn't make any sense at all, because September, by the end of the year, is almost a few months away from working on this bill. We were planning to accept it in the middle of the year, but, well, that's what happened. That's because there's a discussion at the stake. The first edition was 15 percent in the first reading. The committee proposed 10 percent, that is to say a supplement. on the payment by business entities of tax compromises with tax services. But several factions offer 5 percent. So that we don't discuss the whole bill. I think it's worth putting first in the committee, where it's about 10 percent. If it doesn't work out, I'd like to go to the proposal of the "North European Ukraine" faction and the impact faction and still vote this bill at 5 percent. It's still better for business, because law enforcement won't go out and demand just any bribes for covering up past cases. And what I want to remind you is that we have adopted a new de facto tax administration regime for the added value that will be applied from January 1st of the following year, where all VAT will only move with costs, i.e. under the so-called special VAT account regime. So I think it's worth voting on either one or another of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u54	I see. Please be in the rostrum. I wanted Mr. Fudashkin, Deputy Finance Minister, to comment on this position. Dear colleagues, I would ask that we also listen to the position of Minfin, because in the event that there is no compromise between the taxpayer and the payer in this case, between Parliament, the Committee and the Ministry of Finance, they will make a proposal for the promise of this law. And as a result of the whole process, the entire work of the Supreme Council will be ruined. Please include the microphone in the government's bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u55	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! A 15 - percent bid was made by the government, but after consultations, we agreed that we could make such a compromise and vote 10 percent on the amount of tax liabilities. So I very much ask the people's deputies to support the proposal and vote 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, I can see the hands of the national MPs are up. Please, come on. Three, four hands I see on the show. National MP Rudzkowski. One minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman, I am addressing you, we have discussed this law for a very long time. Two hundred billion oligarchic groups stole from the previous three years in conspiracies with the previous president. Now, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, these oligarchic groups have agreed with the government not to return 200 billion to the budget, and they only want to pay 10 or 5. How does this end? How we want to fill the budget. Teachers' wages, doctors' wages, they don't pay. Shorten the allowances. We have millions of people who have lost their jobs in Eastern Ukraine, and we want to fill the budget. Dear colleagues, let us be objective in looking at the painting. We cannot vote on such laws because the budget will be empty.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u58	I got the offer. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u59	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, today the country is fighting a war, today there is an economic crisis in the country. We know with you today that the course is going to be almost 15 dollars, which is essentially twice the course that it was six months ago. And we think that tax compromise can't be less than 15 not 10 percent, it's just 5 percent. Because all these taxes were paid. Another point is that the previous criminal government stole these taxes from the state budget. And if we want to keep the businesses that are creating thousands of jobs today, and even in these difficult conditions, when there's not enough funding when foreign banks don't finance the Ukrainian market, create jobs and pay wages, the compromise is 5 percent. So we're filling out the budget and so we're letting entrepreneurs work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u60	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u61	Thank you, Mr. Head. The faction of the Party of the Regions usually supports the idea of tax compromise as such, but as such, which corresponds to global European practice. That is, if there have been any violations, some tax havens have been used, yes, to optimize or minimize income tax liabilities, VAT needs to be placed on this point, and a simplified procedure for payment is required, whether it is 5 percent or 10 percent. But now, unfortunately, there's a discussion about a figure of 5, 10 percent. Regrettably, no one is saying that the very process of achieving the so - called tax compromise involves very large corruption risks. Because the control body in a single order will decide whether objective or unobjective figures have shown any other business. So anyway, it's going to be a contractual, unofficial relationship, and that's why we can't support this procedure, and we're not voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u62	I see. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u63	Thank you. Xenia Leapina. I want to make a point, my dear colleagues, that we must make some differentiation here. Regrettably, the subjects were not in the same condition at all. Because the small and medium - size business that was running into the tax pits to get the cash and bribes paid, no one paid them back, and 5 percent of the money was hard to pay. And the big players who are also sitting in this room, especially the ones who have been laundering these funds for themselves, to get them out of the country, so we don't have to put them in, because they have to pay more to finance the budget, they stole that money. So, Your Honor, I don't think we're ready to answer this right now. I would suggest that for a small, medium business, maybe for a small one at all, for an average of maybe 5 percent, and for all other subjects, you might have to go out by 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u64	I got the offer. Please, Mikhail Blaujki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u65	Mikhail Blaujki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think today about this figure of 200 billion, which even our fellow MP Rudzkowski acknowledged and said was stolen by this criminal regime. Sadly, all criminal cases are closed today. So I want to give you an example, there's this Kaufman business venture in Odessa, 8 billion just being put back at him, that the D.A. has put an account on him for the return of the funds, Alperin, Kiselov, who are now working confidently under the roof or the D.A., or the M.A.S., or the B.A. Let's figure this out? Today, there continues to be a huge outflow of capital abroad into offshore areas. 130 billion are listed in just three months, who's doing this? And it doesn't matter now, whether it's five or ten or fifteen percent. It's important who keeps doing it. And those real taxpayers, honest taxpayers, they're not supposed to pay anything at all. Today, it must be about a billion returns.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u66	I've got the position. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin. Dear colleagues, we need to make decisions, we need to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, taxpayers, who have long been in conditions where the repressive regime by means of the tax destruction of business, has put on their knees, redistributed assets, redistribution enterprises today should be given logic, according to the absolute logic of this bill of indulgence. Personally, I believe that the return of contributions should not be made through compromise and five, ten, fifteen percent, but through the revitalization of the work of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who must do absolutely everything in order not only to steal what was stolen in the days of Yanukovich but was stolen when the country received the first President was returned to the budget of Ukraine. No compromises, more than 5 percent can't be made. Revitalizing the work of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Hirschfeld, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, I believe that the dispute at the expense of five or ten per cent does not make any sense: tax applies today to all the notion of “junk supplier” which may be in the fourth or fifth generation of supply and which is formed by those tax pits that the tax inspection itself created. If the taxpayer has to prove that the tax credit is wrong, not the taxpayer, we will remove the problem of tax harmonization, and it will cease to be corrupt, because the taxpayer will have to prove that the supplier is worthless and will not be able to collect fines that are the subject of corruption during the checks. Such a law had been enacted, but the committee had been blocked. I propose that this law be passed, that it be made by several deputies, and that it be returned to this law along with that amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I'm the only one that reminds me, we're now considering a specific law that has registration number 4930, and we need to identify ourselves. In order not to waste time, honourable national MPs, I have to put to the vote a proposal from the committee that prepared this law for the second reading. The proposal was as follows: the first vote, taking into account the ten percent rate of compromise, to adopt the law in the second reading and in general in the committee. After. non-resultative voting - to be determined further. Please, Your Honor, at the suggestion of the chairman of the committee, I'm putting Bill No.4930 to the vote, taking into account the rate agreed upon -- I emphasize -- agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, this is the rate of 10 percent tax compromise. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[17:21:31]] For-32 It did little to support this decision. The decision was not taken, but only 32 votes. Head of the committee, please. Next offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u71	I'm going to announce the next proposal for the stenographer. I get it, I hope it goes away. In paragraph 2 of the draft, the words “ten” and “ninety” should be replaced by the words “five” and “ninety-five”. I mean, clearly, this is about a 5 percent tax. And also a technical, technical question. In 96 amendments to my authorship, delete sub-paragraph 5, which concerns legislation on the sole social contribution. We agreed with the Ministry of Finance, it'll be in a separate bill. Therefore, given these suggestions, support the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] April 1st. It's in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, do you understand the proposal of the chairman of the committee? Does the government support it? Supports the whole. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote on the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general the registration number, I remind you of the transcript, 4930, taking into account the amendments announced by the head of the Committee, Hmotinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please vote. [[17:23:15]] For 113 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, in fact, the law is off-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u73	Let's try the second reading again.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! Another reading, can we? We can. Please support the committee's second reading proposal. Please vote. Not a lot of chances. [[17:23:44]] For-126 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 27, regions – 1, Impact – 31, 24 – Economic Development, USM – 1.28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 0, non-fractional – 14. Dear colleagues who have been removed from this law have not found support for any of the committee’s options. Ladies and gentlemen, next question to be taken up with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. The project, registration number 4808, is a draft law amending certain legislative acts concerning the activity of the State Employment Service. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the President has made a motion to reject this law. For the procedure to be followed, please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. Please keep me informed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 22 July 2014, the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activity of the State Employment Service cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of this. The law proposes exclusion from the Ukrainian laws on employment and unemployment insurance, which define the status of the State Employment Service as the central authority of the executive branch and the introduction of regulations that provide for a return to the governance system in this area through the network of employment centres, i.e. state institutions. According to the adopted law, the functions of the executive director of the National Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment are placed on the State Employment Service. While, under the current legislation, such functions as you know, are carried out by the central executive authority, which implements public policy in the field of employment and labour migration, that is, the State Employment Service of Ukraine, as well as its territorial units, the territorial authorities. The law also increases the number of members of the foundation from 15 to 45: 15 representatives from the State, insured persons and employers, and the authority of the government expands substantially. The legal approach is unacceptable, since the practice of social insurance funds, such as the National Social Insurance Fund in case of unemployment, has shown their absolute inefficiency. The mechanism of State oversight and social control in this area is opaque and complicated, resulting in a significant amount of abuse and use of social insurance funds. Expenditure on social insurance funds accounts for a significant part of the budget. Yes, according to the Fund’s budget, Ukraine’s mandatory state social insurance for unemployment for 2014 is 11.9 percent of all expenditure. Ukraine’s budget for the National Social Insurance Fund also provides for significant capital costs for the adoption of citizens and the development of a material base, namely: 8.8 percent of the total budget, while the government’s capital expenditure, given the difficult economic situation, is shrinking significantly. The high risk of misuse in the use of the Fund's general government social insurance funds in the event of unemployment, which would target capital expenditure and the provision of separate social services, is also due to the fact that the consolidation of the proposed law that came upon the signature of the State Employment Service would in fact mean the withdrawal of purchases from the Public Procurement Act. In this regard, it should be noted that some steps have been taken by the authorities to increase control over the use of funds. Thus, the proposed change of approach to the legislative regulation of the State Employment Service and the unemployment fund cannot be supported. In this regard, the President of Ukraine proposes that the prescribed law be rejected. Please, Your Honor, listen to the President's suggestions to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, according to the procedure, the report should be headed by the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Cibenk Petar Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, Communist Party of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour On 21 August 2014, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, applying the veto right for review and revocation, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Activities of the State Employment Service, 4808. You pointed out that this document was submitted by the President of Ukraine on August 21st, he came to the committee only last week of August, and because he wasn't rushing the committee secretariat and the committee as a whole to look at this document, he was scheduled for the committee meeting tomorrow on the first question. So I'm willing to report on the conclusions of the social partners and the opinions of the committee members from the various factions with which we have been able to negotiate today, but I would still like to be able to give full, full consideration to this issue -- an extremely important social issue -- at tomorrow's meeting of the Committee and then consider it in the Hall of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u78	I got the offer. Thank you. Please, dear fellows, I can see a few hands, come on, I can give in a minute. Please, Deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u79	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Indeed, the President's remarks are, on the one hand, clearly that the veto will not be over in the Supreme Council right now. But not to lose a bill that, by the way, I want to remind you that it was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the signature of Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk. So there is, let's not judge the fever right now, there was no committee meeting. We will be able to find a compromise decision at the committee meeting tomorrow, including perhaps taking into account the amendments made by the President of Ukraine to some of the bills, to give the Supreme Council of Ukraine a joint bill that would take into account the amendments made by the President of Ukraine, and to present it, this bill, in a new edition. This bill cannot be buried, it must work, but taking into account the president's remarks. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u80	I got the offer. Please, National Deputy Zelik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u81	Ruslan Zelik, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The Society, indeed, did not consider the bill at the committee meeting. And one more thing I want to say is we're back on the same rakes, and once again we're asked to approve the budget of the Kabmin Unemployment Fund. You remember, there was this situation where the administration of the funds in the funds was given to the so-called Mindhog, and what came out of it? Therefore, this cannot be allowed. It's supposed to be responsible for allocating funds just to the government of this fund, because it's not government money. This is the money of those who put it together in case of unemployment. And by the way, the state is represented in the administration of that fund, just like the insured persons, the insured persons, the employers' representatives. Therefore, it is imperative that the President’s veto be passed or that the law work. Because it is a social law and we have no right to ignore it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u82	Please. Dear colleagues, this question is not being discussed, but I understand it is relevant enough. Please, Deputy Dry and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u83	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! The first sign of the veto prepared by the Ministry of Social Policy is the continuation of the vicious practice of idleness -- the government on the one hand, the president on the other. We've been through this before, and you know, it didn't end well for the government or the President. The other one. Bad practices continue when the government tries to shove its hands into people’s pockets. Zelik's colleague said that the insurance premiums are not taxes, they're not assemblies, they're deferred wages in case of insurance when it comes. So I ask you to agree with Zibank’s point of view. Alexander Valentinovich, give the committee a chance. This law is necessary. I'm just... I'm just having some personal hostile relationship between the minister and the state employment centers right now, so it says now that he's ineffective. What do you mean "inefficient"? But we took 2.9 billion from this fund. Wait until the New Year, what will we pay to insured persons? Not yet. So let the committee work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u84	Colleagues, I see the hand and head of Mr. Zibanko's committee. Please, have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's proposal is not a new editorial, but a rejection of the law. Do you understand? The alternative to that is that it can only be overcoming the veto. I can see on the hall that the veto won't be overtaken. That's why I would propose and ask, including Mr. Zibank, and all the deputies who are interested in this law, who are speaking. When we prepare a new project on the basis of this law, I will immediately put it to the vote and put it into the agenda. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm asking that we stop this discussion right now, it doesn't make any sense. I'm going to make a proposal for a veto rejection procedure and then I'm going to be able to make proposals to the committee head that he's proposing as chairman of the committee. Do you want to vote? Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Zibank.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u85	Thank you. Cibenko Peter, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues, you know, I would like to point out to everyone that the social insurance system that was introduced by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is one of the few acquisitions of the Supreme Council in recent times, and it's impossible to ignore it because it's about that. It's not about government money, it's about human money, it's about orphans' money -- it's about black day, it's about unemployment, it's about disability, and so on and so forth. So, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, nothing will change since we wait one day with this law. Maybe we'll try to find compromises at the committee meeting in order to preserve the social insurance system -- not much -- it's the destruction of the social insurance system. And I'd like us to try to keep this situation alive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u86	Peter Stepanovich, I repeat. I'd like to ask you to assemble a committee. And I understand what the vote is going to be. And if you can, on the basis of this law, take into account the amendments to the new bill, we can vote on it, considering that it has already gone through and gone through the discussion, both the committee, and on the basis, and on the whole. As soon as you're ready, I'll put the project to the vote right away. Please and National Deputy Rosenka join us in preparing the project that we just talked about. And now, honourable colleagues, according to the Supreme Council Rules, I am the first to raise questions about the rejection of this law. Please, Your Honor, vote on this. Colleagues, come on. Are you going to tell me? I've got rules in front of me. And so, dear colleagues, the first is the President's proposal to reject the law. Please vote. [[17:36:41]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Second, I'm asking questions about overcoming the President's veto. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote against the veto. Please vote. [[17:37:06]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the law. I'm asking you, let's clean up the humor later. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to make up your mind. The profile committee should be set up with an interested MP. Including I'd like to join the Ministry of Social Policy so that we can still prepare a new draft law, take into account the comments that were made in the veto, so that we can adopt a new version of this law as soon as possible. Next question, dear colleagues. This is a draft law on a moratorium on forced housing, forced disconnection from the network of residential services, the prohibition of billing and foaming and other penalties in the absence of timely payment for residential and utility services for citizens living in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the registration number of Project 4188a, reports the head of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Regional Policy of Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u87	Honorable National MPs. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 July 2014 on the basis of almost 300 votes by the national deputies. The bill provided for the introduction of a moratorium on forced residence, forced separation from housing services networks, prohibition of billing and foaming and other penalties, in the absence of timely payments for residential services by citizens living in the territories of an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. During this time, 23 comments and suggestions were made by the committee from the law - enforcement bodies to the bill. Of these, 14, 7 are taken into account in editorial terms, 1 is taken into account in part, and 1 is rejected. Taking into account the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the mandatory implementation of housing, forced exclusion from housing and utility networks, the prohibition on the collection and collection of foam and other penalties in the event of late payments for residential services by citizens residing in the territories of an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetské and Luhansk areas (registration number 4188a) as a result of a second reading review to be adopted as a whole as a law. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, can we support the committee? Please turn on the Oxani microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Alexander Valentinovich, we have just voted through the Supreme Council on Bill 4313a. In this bill, because of my amendment, we approved a moratorium on penance for the late payment of rents and rents. So if we're going to vote two of the same things in one day, but maybe in different words, projects, it's probably not logical. Perhaps ask the head of the committee to carry them if there are any additional additions. We just voted a moratorium on fines and foam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, please National Deputy Rudzkowski on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I think we need to support this bill right now. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, I have a letter to you, asking you a few questions about utility payments on Thursday. We have a bill to impose a moratorium on raising municipal tariffs. The government has passed a bill and the Supreme Council has unfortunately supported the prohibition of wage and pension indexation. During the following year and during the fall, a 40 - percent increase in utility tariffs and 30 - percent in electricity is planned. This is in the 2015 Development Programme. I still think, if wages don't go up, how can we raise utility tariffs? That's why debt increases. By the way, debt is now growing in Kharkivsk, Dnipropetrovsk, where businesses have actually stopped. It's the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u92	Please, the people's deputy of the Marches. My colleagues, I'll remind you that we're not discussing the issue right now, it's in the second reading prepared and we just need to figure it out. Another problem that Oksana Prodan said is that we make decisions so quickly that we have the support of people in the ATO area. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u93	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to go to my colleague, Mrs. Oksana, to the impact faction, this law needs to be voted on, because it does not apply to the moratorium on all the fines, but to the Lugansk, Donetsk region, or the ATO zone. And it is not possible for people to pay fines and pennies and other payments today, but today it is impossible to pay the tariffs that are there. So we need to uphold this law, it's in the second reading. And that's why I'm talking to my colleagues, regardless of party membership, but Freedom calls for the vote and support of those people today who stand up for the Ukrainian independent state, and there, in that zone, today, the right of Ukrainians to call themselves Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, we have exchanged thoughts on this subject, and in summary, we can say that the general proposal is to support the law in the second reading and in general. When we have problems that laws duplicate each other, I think we'll deal with this issue with the judiciary and bring some compromise to the Supreme Council, either by this or by another law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine your support for Law 4188a. Let me remind you, we're voting on it in our second reading and in general. Please vote. [[17:44:10]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Take it easy. The factions, please. Parenthood – 36, Party of Regions – 43, Impact – 0.25 – Economic Development – 27, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, Freedom – 34, non-fractional – 37. The offer, I take it, is to go back to that question. Yeah, I got it, colleagues. The offer to return to this question. Please support the proposal to return to this question. Just be careful, please, dear colleagues. [[17:44:56]] For 288 Another question is, "yes" is 288. Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, decide on the support of this bill in the second reading and in general, please vote. [[17:45:19]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is registration number 2469a – this is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Houses Co-owners Association Act (to prevent infringements of the rights of owners of apartments and non-residential premises). I was told by the people of Herzov Yuri Ivanovich that he would report the matter at the commission of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u95	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 5, this year. It is aimed at the realization and protection of the rights of houseowners in apartment buildings. In particular, the right to a voluntary and free entry into the homeowners ’ associations, the right to information, the right to share in the legal relations associated with the operation of a multi - apartment building. During the drafting period for the second reading of the bill, 14 comments and suggestions were received from law - abiding entities: six were taken into account in full, three were taken into account in editorial terms, three were taken into account in part, and two were rejected. Amendment number one of the people's deputies, Yatzenka, is not given to this bill or to an existing one. It's to an existing one. Amendment No. 14, "Admission to Unity", rejected, accepted by the Legal Authority, "Admission to Unification". Conclusion of the General Legal Office: The bill may be adopted in a second reading, taking into account the observations of the General Legal Office. Taking into account the importance and importance of this bill to improve the activity of OSBB, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council a bill on the merger of coowners of a multi-housing house to prevent violations of the rights of owners of apartments and adequate premises (register 2469a) as a result of the second reading of the adoption of the law as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, do you understand the committee's proposal? Can we vote? We can. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the committee's proposal to vote in favour of draft law 2469a. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the merger of co-owners of a multi-family house. the owners of apartments and non-residential premises) in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[17:48:37]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 40 – "The Fatherland", 32 – "Regions", 26 – "The Impact", 19 – "The Economic Development", 3 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 23 – "Freedom" – 34.39 – non-fractional. Colleagues, what are the suggestions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Mobilizing is an offer, right? Can we mobilize, dear colleagues? Let's give the owners' rights to dormitories. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to protect our co-owners and apartment buildings. This is a question that many citizens of our country are concerned with. Please return to your consideration of the matter (registration number 2469a). Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:49:35]] For 232 Decision taken. Immediately, honourable colleagues, without relaxing, please support this law as a whole (2469a). Please vote. [[17:50.]] For 226 Decision taken. It was Igor Mironovich who was able to press the button. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's still do more organized work. The factions, please. 41 – "Paternity", regions 35, 28 – "PACK". 25, I'm sorry, "Economic development" 0, "North European Ukraine" 20, "Freedom" 35, 42 are non-fractional. Dear colleagues, next question. I'm the only one who doesn't see a reporter on this. Draft Act amending the Budget Code to bring it into line with the Constitution. Geller's gone, I understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not Geller. Please. Pavlov’s national deputy. For the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u97	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! National MP Pavlov, 31st District, Curved Horn, Dniproperty. The Committee on Budget Questions prepared Bill No.4160 on second reading. The bill has received 20 suggestions and is proposed to take them into account. The main task of the amended bill is to bring the mandate of the President and the Court of Auditors into line with the Constitution in the budgetary process and to remove the legal commissions in connection with the repeal of Law No. 2592. The bill also proposes, inter alia, to increase the publicity and availability of budget information through the posting of additional materials on the Minfin site, Treasury, and principals. Normalize borrowing into the individual income budget, cancel the possibility of providing guarantees to the principal supervisors. All proposals are processed and agreed upon with the Ministry of Finance. The proposal of the General Legal Office for the technical and legal clarification of changes to article 152 of the Rules, as reflected in the comparative table, is also taken into account. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 4160 to adopt, on second reading and in general, as a law in final edition, as set out by the committee in a comparative table to the bill. At the same time, it is appropriate to defer the question of amending article 22 of the Code on the optimisation of the number of major public budget administrators to proposal No. 3 in a comparative table, taking into account the reference of individual institutions, the need to take into account administrative reform measures and the agreed position of the Government on this issue. So it is proposed to adopt Bill 4160 in second reading and in general, as a law without taking into account proposal No. 3. The Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority in the drafting of the relevant law, should make the necessary editorial and technical regulations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, do you understand the committee's proposal? Dear colleagues, may we vote? The only thing I've prepared is a committee proposal that I have to announce for the transcript is that a bill under registration number 4160 should be adopted on second reading and generally as a law without taking into account proposal No.3 in the comparative table. Did I say it right? Look. Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can. People's deputies would like to make a decision on this. Igor Mironovich, you can't go without you. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[17:53:51]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] This came after a difficult rest by a national MP, Geller, and he is willing to vote in favour of his law. Is that what I'm saying? Please, Your Honor, let's define. Please return to this question, 225 votes. This is the law you just reported, Mr. Geller, please. Wait a minute, I'm asking you to cancel the vote. Not all deputies approached their jobs. Vote. Please come back to that question. Please, dear fellows. [[17:54:53]] For 241 Decision taken. You see when a professional votes. Now I would like you to support this project in general, taking into account the committee's comments. So no number 3 in the compare table. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:55:24]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for the transfer of garden and tax homes to residential homes and for the registration of their residences). Dear colleagues, please. Please inform Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich that the project is ready for second reading. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u99	Gerzhov, 131st District, Mikolayevščina. The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is presented for your consideration by a second reading draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (as regards the transfer of garden and tax homes to residential homes and the registration of their residences) (No.2336a), which was adopted in the first reading on the basis of July 1, this year. During the drafting of the bill, 16 proposals and amendments were made to the committee for the second reading of the draft law, of which 11 were taken into account and 5 were rejected. It should be noted that the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land, the Housing and Civil Codes and the laws of Ukraine on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine have been excluded, allowing citizens to transfer to their homes and to register their place of residence at their request. As for the rejected proposals, first, the three amendments of the national deputies of the Ukraine of Sharov, Ponomarov and Solvara were rejected, respectively, six, seven, eight. Since it is not necessary to specify whether the dwelling is located in or outside the area. In addition, there is only one residence in Ukraine, and at the same time, the person cannot have two residences. Therefore, the registration of the predominant place of residence is not appropriate. Secondly, almost identical to the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies, Sharova No. 10, and Ponomarov Amendment No. 11. Since they are not the subject of this law and the Civil Code of Ukraine, in particular, the existence of an address of residence and the manner in which they are allocated is an important issue that is proposed in Bill No. 2444a on amending the Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on Local Administrations and on Postal Liaison.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u100	Yuri Ivanovich, that's how I understand the committee's drafting is a proposal for a vote. Yes or no? I got the offer. Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Got it. Please, Your Honor, support the committee's proposal to approve Bill 2336a as a second reading and as a whole. Vote your honorary colleagues. [[17:59:05]] For 264 So at the end of the day: "for" is 264. Decision taken, my dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you not to disagree with us, we have two proposals for parliamentary hearings: there is an initiative to support these proposals from the committees without discussion, and that is why we have demonstrated a very quality and effective work today, for which I thank all the national deputies. Dear colleagues, the proposal to support the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "Ensure the Realisation of Housing Rights of Guests: Problems and Solutions". There's no denying it, dear fellows! There's no objection. Please be supportive. [[18:00:07]] For 234 Decision taken. Let me remind you, we voted on the basis as a whole. It is also based and generally proposed to support the project of very important parliamentary hearings on recommendations on the subject. Parliamentary recommendations. on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings is not the subject of "The callous regime between Ukraine and the EU: prospects and new opportunities for Ukrainian citizens". I am convinced that everyone supports the proposals for parliamentary hearings that I have announced (registration number 4635). Please, Your Honor, all of you, support this final question that we are voting on today. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[18:01:00]] For 224 Dear people's deputies, please. Well, communists don't want to go to Europe, well, everybody else does. Dear colleagues, please, please, let's go now, colleagues, let's support it. I can see who votes by the chart. Decision on parliamentary hearings: "The callous regime between Ukraine and the EU, prospects and new opportunities for Ukrainian citizens". We are mobilizing, please, Your Honor, to return to this question, please vote, please. Let's have a final vote. [[18:01:48]] For 222 votes. Dear colleagues, do we have the resources again or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-09-02-m1.u101	Well, can we mobilize or not? "Paternity." You have reserves, I see. Please talk to me later on the phone. Please! Please come back to that question. Whoever doesn't vote, so the Schengen visas will never be given again. Please. Honorable colleagues, vote. [[18:02:30.]] For 229 Decision taken. And now we're voting effectively on the basis and in general. And now I'm going back to the vote. 230 votes required. Vote please, Your Honor. For visa-free treatment for Ukrainian citizens. [[18:02:54]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you all the national deputies for their fruitful, effective work today. Let me remind you, we're meeting on Thursday at 10 a.m. at the closed meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Good-bye. We're adjourning the evening session. Good luck!
