ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I apologize for the delay, given that a council of coalition leaders is on the way to the Cabinet of the Supreme Council. I welcome, today, unfortunately, no appeal has been made to the Cabinet of Ministers and there is no need then, it seems that the deputies have not given, unfortunately, the factions have not given. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:10:35]] Today, 304 national deputies are registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today, we welcome the birth of the Ukrainian national deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrovna. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Let us move on to the order of today’s meeting. And I will read with great pleasure the parliamentary questions that have come. We're on the order of the day, ladies and gentlemen. We're on our way. You have the order of the day on your hands. So the questions came from the Ukrainian national MPs: Irina Farion to the President of Ukraine for the veneration of the fallen heroes of the Celestial 100 because of their posthumously assigned to them the title "The Hero of Ukraine." When I look to the President, I'll remind you that we have to vote in favour first. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:12:10]] For the 180. The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 42, Party of Regions – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 19, Economic Development – 1, Freedom – 30, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 9. Irina Pharion's next request to the President of Ukraine to reduce the significance of Ukrainian Song and Language Day in the Presidential Decree on Further Measures for State Support for Culture and Art in Ukraine. People's deputies please support the request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:13:00]] For 111 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 41, Party of Regions – 0, Hit Vitalia Klicka – 21, Economic Development – 3, Freedom – 33, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 6. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of Ukraine for the annulment of Presidential Decree 445/2013 on the assignment of Boris Daych to the title "The Hero of Ukraine" for anti-State statements and actions, for the campaign against the occupation of Crimea Russia, which are unacceptable from the mouth of the Ukrainian National Deputy, and more from the mouth of an undeservedly high-ranking person named "The Hero of Ukraine". People's deputies would like to make a decision on the support of this request. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:14:05]] For 111 The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Parenthood – 42, Party of Regions – 1, Impact of Vitalia Klicka – 21, Economic Development – 0, Freedom – 33, Sovereign European Ukraine – 5, Peace and Stability – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 7. Vladimir Yavorowski's next request to the President of Ukraine for the handover of the outstanding Ukrainian writer Vasil Sklar of the National Award for Ukraine, Taras Shevchenk, who was sentenced in 2011, who refused to receive until the Ukrainianoffob Dmitry Tobacco was in power; since the new Minister of Education and Science, Sergey Kwit, had even dedicated the cabinet, is an opportunity to complete the procedure for the award of the full-fledged Shevchenk Prize. People's deputies, please support the request. In question! In question, Mr. Vladimir Yavorowski. You're such an experienced politician. These are the questions. Please support your vote. Ask your faction and other deputies to do so. I'm betting on support. Please. [[10:15:22]] For the 120th. The decision is not approved. Please, by the factions. Parenthood – 45, excuse me, 48, Party of Regions – 0, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 24, Economic Development – 1, Freedom – 32, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, Peace and Stability – 0, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 8. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the appeal of the voters of the 67 constituency, the peasants of Žitomirski, Lubarski, Romani, Zidomir region of Zitomir region on the need to raise the purchase price for milk in 2014. Viktor Razwadowski, head of the Zitomir district administration for the use of free accommodation for a citizen of Melniczuk, a village of the town type Lake Zitomir district of the Žitomir region. Olega Lalashka to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on bringing criminal responsibility to the police officers who carried out the beating of Ukrainian patriots in Kharkiv on 22 June 2014 and sending a special unit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine "Griffon" to the area of anti-terrorist operation. Olega Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the criminalization of the head of the Luhansk District Council of Vladimir Golenka for unlawful acts that have caused significant harm to the national security of the State and have caused serious consequences for the lives and health of citizens. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of pedestrian crossings on the Kiev-Chop road. Vladimir Kudri to the Kyiv City Head on the issue of assistance in resolving the housing situation of Constantine Baranekov, a candidate for medical sciences, a professor at the Faculty of Oncology of the National Medical Academy of Postgraduate Education and Science of Plato Shupic in connection with the move to a permanent residence of parents from Luhansk. Jury Stac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the activities of the state television company "World Service "The Ukrainian Television and Radio". Jury Steca to Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the activities of the satellite channel of the Ukrainian National Television Company "First Ukraine". Oleg Bondarczuk to the Director of the Agricultural Society, with limited responsibility for the execution of the laws governing the payment of labour and due consideration of the parliamentary appeal from 14 April 2014. Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of dairy farmers' rights, preventing the decline of the animal sector of the agro-industry complex. Mikhail Opanaschenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a solution to the extraordinary situation that resulted from the lack of drinking water supply for the population of the Lower Syrian and John’s regions of the Hersonian region, through the construction of John’s group water supply. Mr. Andrija Putilov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the leaders of the State Enterprise "Herson Sea Trade Port" by Igor Tkachenka and Sergey Ignatenko. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compliance by Poland with the provisions of the International Agreement on International Road Connections. Grenevetsky's Sergey to Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for the construction of an unfinished building in Odessa on Golovkowska Street 5-7. Grinevetsky's Sergey to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Odessa Integrated Economic and Social Development Programme 2005-2015. Groups of National Deputies (Kanitsa, Pazinjak, Apostolic) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the creation of the Ministry of Civil Protection and Migration. Oleg Tajnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District Government Administration on the need to take action to address the issue of illegal park construction in Chernigov. Oleg Tajnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, on the need to take action to address the issue of the illegal placement of the IAFs in the city of Vasilkov, Kyiv region. Alexander Korniychuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's agreement to change the target destination of lands of conservation, historical and cultural, forestry, which are located in the Hmeljna region and are in state or municipal property. Alexander Korniyczuk to the Hmelnick City Head for an official answer regarding the failure to make arrangements with the constructionists of the Hmelnicke Treaty for the development of the city’s social infrastructure and for the reasons for the liberation of individual builders from participation in the Hmelnitské Social Infrastructure Market. Viacheslav Zadrožny to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds from the state budget of the city of Krivom Rog to pay off the debt on subsidies. Valeria Pisarenko and Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the holding by the Government in the southern districts of the Odessa region of the compact residence of the national minorities of the round table on the discussion of changes to the Constitution of Ukraine on the decentralization of State authority. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the non-application of measures of prosecutorial response and the inappropriate examination of the parliamentary address of the Ukrainian deputy Jury Bublika of 6 May 2014 No.870/07 by the prosecutor of Poltava District of Polekandr Zakorecki on the significant shortcomings of the criminal investigation in the criminal case of citizen Grigori Vereshtzaka, and the violations of the procedural direction of the prosecutor's office. Leonid Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the mechanism for compensating possible financial sanctions by Russian Federation enterprises for non-compliance with contractual obligations in 2014 by the State Enterprise "Science and Production Complex "Photoprelad" (Cherkasa City) and the inclusion of the specified enterprise in the State Defence Order. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the conduct of a review and independent audit of the activities of the Director of the Cherkas Training and Production Company of the Ukrainian Association of Blind Mikola Zadwail. Roman Ilika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to simplify the procedures for the removal of land for the construction of wells and the granting of special permits for the use of nadrama in Ukraine. Roman Ilik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for the completion of the construction of the roadway of the city of Truscavet Lviv. Igora Brichenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the examination of the unreasonable use by the health department of the Mikolai County of the budget allocated to the purchase of insulin drugs to ensure the needs of the sick for diabetes and to comply with Ukraine’s current legislation in the area of public procurement. Oleg Kulinić to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, for the allocation to citizens of land for private agriculture. Vasil Gladys to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to identify and verify the facts of non-compliance with the current legislation of Ukraine in the construction of the mini-GES in the Supreme District of Ivano-Frankivsk. Vasil Gladys to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures to restore the activities of the State Enterprise "Involvement Spirit Plant" as a separate legal entity. Alexander Dubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the issue of financing the capital repair of the roads of the State importance of the Odessa region: T-16-30 Strumk-Shevchenk-Kilia is more than 32 kilometers long and T-16-28 Spazké-Vilková, a total length of 34 kilometres; T-16-07 Ishmael-Kilia-Vilkov, which is in extreme emergency and paralyses passenger and freight transport that violates the rights of residents and causes numerous inconveniences. Vasila Petyovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of financial and economic activities and the state of affairs in the liquidation of the technological accident at the Solotvinian Solar System of the Tachyov region of Zakarpatsk region for the execution of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' approval of the plan of urgent measures to overcome corruption. Vasil Pétovka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the improper treatment of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Prosecutor-General of the Zakarpatsky area of the parliamentary inquiry of 16 May 2014 on the use of measures to compensate the State-owned enterprise for its damage and liability. Anton Kise to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the urgent capital repair of the area of the road of the international M-15 Odessa-Reni in the direction of the village of Krinici Ishmaelski district - the city of Bolgrad - KPT "Vinogradka". Anton Kisse to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to clear the Sarata River at the expense of the State Environmental Protection Fund. Igora Miroshnička and Alexander Mirnojna to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine on the transparency and legality of the Ukrainian National Television Company, the legality of the broadcast of the Euronews channel and the "Citizen Television" at the frequencies of the National Television Company of Ukraine, as well as the verification of the facts of corruption by the Director General of the National Television Company of Ukraine Zurab Alasania. The Peacekeeper and Alexander the Peace to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the violation of criminal conduct based on the facts of fictitious enterprise and the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, as well as the abuse in the field of service in the use of budgetary resources to which the Society's employees have a limited responsibility to the News of Mass Media. Vitalia Zharavsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the elimination of the issues concerning the capital rehabilitation of the Malinov educational complex. Istwan Haydosh to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the conduct of the military rotation and the non-reception of the anti-terrorist operation to involve members of the military service and mobilized from a reserve that did not show a desire to participate in it. Valery Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the relocation of the Crimea Faculty of the Odessa State University of Internal Affairs to the city of Kirovgrad. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the construction of underwater gas pipelines to the villages of Burgunka, Snakes, Mikolayevka in the Berisslav region of the Hersonian region. Andrija Tabalova to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the use of response measures to ensure full security for the Kosovo landing force with special military equipment. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylarthritis with the necessary medications. Elbrus Tedeev and Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a new school in the village of Sadovym Arciy region, the completion of the construction and operation of schools in the village of Minajlovka Saratsk and the village of the Advertise Tarutin district of Odessa. Paul Rizanenka to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the use of measures to restore hospital care by medicines for the treatment of children with primary (inborn) immunodeficiency. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the State Inspectorate of Ukraine for work on the use of measures to restore the labour rights of the employees of the State Industrial Industrial Industry. Alexander Brigintz to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine on the need to preserve the history and architecture of national significance – the Church of the times of the Kiev Russia of Jury's Divinity in the town of Oster Chernigiv. Jacob Besbach and Hennady Fedorjak to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Kyiv City Public Administration on the need for effective response measures to ensure the constitutional right of Victoria Korstolova to raise a child. Sergey Kaplin to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the need to carry out checks on the illegal detention of defendants in the Odessa Detention Unit. Ruslan Zelik to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the allocation of additional funds to ensure an effective rehabilitation process for persons with disabilities at the Bukovin Interregional Centre for Professional Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Galina Black to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, on the violation of the land rights of Ukrainian citizen Olga Gagulino. The Black to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service regarding the free sale of separatist publications in Ukraine, the presence in the Ukrainian Internet space of separatist sites and the Internet community. Marciana Lopaczak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legal regulation of the conduct of an asset assessment for tax purposes. Marciana Lopaczak to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on disciplinary conduct in respect of judges of the Lviv District Administrative Court of Olena Krutecko, Irena Gulkevitch, Maria Kedik. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of illegal evictions of residents on the street of the Central City of Dergachi in the Kharkiv region, violations of the rights and legitimate interests enshrined in the Constitution and in the current legislation of Ukraine and reports of violations of legislation by officials of the Dergachev City Council, representatives of commercial enterprises. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inactivity of police officers in threatening to kill the City Council MP Krivi Rig Paul Litwinenko while he was performing his duties as deputy in the country’s session. Anatolia Revenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of privatization and the conduct of a comprehensive audit of the activities of the Public Shareholders Association of the International Aerospace Company. Jurija Orotyuka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, commander of the National Guard of Ukraine on legal status and financial security of the regional defence units of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, special units and territorial defence battalions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the battalions of the National Guard of Ukraine. Jurya Orotyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the involvement of the Ukrainian National Deputy Sergio Kiwalov in anti-State activities. Alexia Kayda and Alexia Furman to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the verification of the involvement of the banking institutions in financing terrorist and separatist structures in Ukraine, for the removal of their bank licenses and for the prosecution of criminal liability. Alexia Kayda and Alexia Furman to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the lifting of the Cabinet of Ministers decrees of 25 March 2014 Nos. 88 and No. 89 and the establishment of appropriate conditions for payment of allowances to teachers for the prestige of work and library staff under special conditions of work. Jurya Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on personnel problems in the prosecutor's office in Poltavščina. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the inclusion of the territory of Ordjonikidze Dnipropetrovsk district in the observation zone. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the settlement of the situation with medical care for rheumatoid arthritis of Ukrainian citizens. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on granting subsidies from the State Budget of Ukraine to local budgets for the reconstruction and repair of children's health and rest facilities for the provision of a year-round work regime. Bogdan Benjuk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadequacy of being the director of the National Research Institute of Ukrainian Science and World History, Anatoly Tchaikovsky. Ruslana Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, State Executive Service of Ukraine, National Bank of Ukraine, Supreme Council of Justice, Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Temporary Special Commission for the Examination of Judges of General Jurisdiction, Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive examination of the appeal of Natalia Nesterchuk for the protection of the constitutional right to residence of her minor child. Group of National Deputies (Pazinaka, Vasyunika and others). A total of 5 deputies) to the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine for the granting of a building permit until the 200-year anniversary of the birth in Zovwa Lvivsk district of Taras Shevchenk after a 10-year blockade of this initiative, the honoring of the great post of Ukrainian Cobzar and the fighter for the will of the people. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir-Wollin City Head for the provision of combat personnel, participant in the liquidation of the accident in the Chernobyl AES Paul Marhodaya residence. Eugene Melnik to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of residents of the Public Shareholders Association Vladimir Volin Sugar Plant. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the financing of the reconstruction of the U.S.Y.I.I. graduated from the construction of the corps for 14 classes, boiler and administrative premises in the village of the Black Stream of the overriding region of Ivano-Frankiv region. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to finance the construction of a school in the village of Rakovec, in the region of Ivano-Frankov. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the non-admission of illegal gambling activities in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Ruslana Marcinkov to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the non-admission of anti-Ukrainian propaganda in the media. Mikhail Gołka and Leontiya Martinyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the possibility of restoring the salary allowance to library staff. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possibility of reviewing the transfer of the Cremenic Combine of Bread Products to the National Food and Grain Corporation of Ukraine. Victoria Bullach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unwarranted reduction in the purchase price of milk in the region of Lebedin. Victoria Bullach to the Head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine regarding the repayment of 2013 creditors' debt for more than 113 thousand dollars to ensure the viability of the municipal institution, the Ochtyr City Centre for Culture and Leisure. Oleg Bukhovtsa to the head of the Kharkiv District State Administration for the assignment to the citizen of Smigun's Hope Mikitovni, the inhabitants of the village of Tokarovka Dvorichansky district, the Kharkiv area of honour of "Mother Hero" and the receipt of a cash one-time payment according to the Law. Oleg Pankević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to return helicopters to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, rented by Ukrainian helicopters. Oleg Pankević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the use of urgent measures to return helicopters to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, rented by the Ukrainian Helicopter Company. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prosecutor of the Plains Region, head of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Plains region, on the illegal activity of the director of the Sanitary Epidemiological Station of the Plains region. Sergey Firemarck to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of accommodation for military personnel. Paul Kirilenko and Taras Osaulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the cessation of the illegal crossing of the border at sea ports and airports of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Paul Kirilenko and Taras Osaulenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of State for the Further Use of Feofania Hospital for the Treatment and Diagnosis of Severe Children. Viacheslav Kirilenko to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, on the need to halt illegal attempts by residential enterprises in Kiev to exercise confidence in residential water supply counters at the expense of consumers. Mr John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the provision of social guarantees to educational workers for the prestige of work and the annulment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decrees of March 25, 2014 No. 88 and No. 89. Valery Calchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Kirovograd region, dated September 19, 2013, No. 610 - 7. Bogdan Benjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to stop funding government officials and interior workers who betrayed Ukraine and took sides with separatists. Irina Herashchenko and Oksana Sold to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the admission of graduates living in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas to the higher educational institutions of these areas. Jurya Crook to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of the social infrastructure of the city of Reni Odessa. Juriya Crook to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the construction of schools in the village of Kamishovka, Ishmael district of Odessa. Edward Leonov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for drawing on the responsibility of banks that violate Ukrainian legislation, provide collectors of the Russian Federation with personal information about their clients in temporarily occupied territories. Edward Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to involve the public in the preparation of discussions and the resolution of issues related to the protection of the violated rights of residents of the temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons as a result of the temporary annexation of the Crimea Peninsula by the occupying forces of the Russian Federation. And the final request, the distinguished national MPs, groups of national MPs (Suho, Rosenka, Zabotny) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the guarantees to employees appointed for military service for the recruitment of a special period. That's all. If you please, there will be an announcement now and then we'll decide how we're going to do our next job. Honourable National Deputies have come to announce: according to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Grynevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, Kiwalova Sergija Vasilovich, Kisse Anton Ivanovich, from the MP of the Party of the Regions. Next announcement: According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National MP Ponomarov Alexander Sergiyyovich into the MP's "For Peace and Stability" group. According to the statement and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shugala Roman Vasilovich, from the Communist Party of Ukraine and his membership in the MP group "For Peace and Stability". Let me finish. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For the Development of the Polish Territories". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivakhiv Stepan Petrovic, was elected head of the interfractional association for the development of the Polish territories. Thank you. These are all the announcements that came to us. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Rosenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u2	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, I think that the vast majority of the national deputies present today are absolutely surprised that we are starting our day on Friday not from the Question Hour to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You know, there's clearly the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers, which clearly states that on the day of the plenary meetings, every week there is time for questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine make it clear that every week on the day of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, Friday from 10 to 11 p.m., the Year of Questions to the Government is being held. The fact that the Conciliation Council has not defined the issue until Government Day does not mean that this "Year of Government" should not pass. We have a lot of questions, today the problems of refugees from the East, the problem of social protection of the population, and someone is taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u3	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u4	And someone takes responsibility instead of national deputies to determine whether a government is needed or not? Once again, both in the Rules and in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the government should be here on Friday. And please, I'm asking you next time that no such manipulation of the laws of Ukraine and the Rules has occurred, we have a lot of questions for the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I welcome everyone in the hall. We have Prime Minister Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk () present in the Hall. [[Applause]] I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the national deputies can come into the session hall and sit in their seats. I call once again to the faction leaders, the MPs to gather their colleagues into the hall, we will now have enough serious questions and the responsibility of those who are not in the room will also be sufficiently serious, respected colleagues. Once again, please make announcements to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions to work with their colleagues in the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Cabinet of Ministers asked the Supreme Council to approve the laws on which the country's energy security depends. Taking into account the war waged against us by the Russian Federation, taking into account the prospect of blocking gas supply to Ukraine, the government is working on work patterns in extreme conditions. Without the support of these government proposals, we will leave the country unheated, we will not be able to prepare the country for winter. This is a risk for millions of our citizens, and that's why, honourable colleagues, support or non-support for the government's proposals is a question of survival of a country that leads to a major war. I now ask for one minute to speak to representatives of MP groups and factions. Please sign up. Turn on the "Race" system. People's MP Rosenko, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we support the idea of the need to consider these bills today. At the same time, I'm just stressing that the strike faction made specific proposals to the bill and, of course, yesterday. Without the condition that we take them into account, we are willing to vote for these bills today. Just remember during the vote to remind us that such proposals by the strike faction were made yesterday during the discussion of these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u7	Okay, thanks. People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u8	I would like to give the floor to the head of the Kinahu delegation, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u9	Please turn on Anatoly Kinach's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, even without the adoption of the Special Period Act, everyone must understand that this special period in the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine is already taking place. You know that from the beginning of the month, the supply of natural gas to Ukraine from the Russian Federation has been virtually suspended. Unfortunately, a very unconsolidated position is taken by the European Union in relation to the Southern Stream project, in violation of the conditions of the Energy Charter of the European Union. Therefore, a set of laws: 4117a (government) and 4116a (government) under the TTS are essential to strengthen and diversify energy supply in Ukraine, and strengthen Ukraine's arguments as a state after creating a transparent market in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u11	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u12	So this package of laws on the state of emergency in the fuel-energy complex and on the efficient use of the gas transport system is a very important factor in Ukraine's energy security, including cooperation on creating a transparent European continent without political and economic pressure on the energy market. The Economic Development Union will support the above-mentioned drafts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u13	Please, national deputy Yavorowski. He's handing over the Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u14	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, our faction decided yesterday to vote on the bill. And today he feels that the situation is only getting worse every day. If the real state of emergency in the energy sector is not regulated literally in the coming weeks, there will be no mechanism in the government to prepare itself for the winter period, how to maximize the efforts of public, private companies, the efforts of those who are ready to export gas to Ukraine today. And I think that's the mechanism we're putting in these bills. Now, the real definition is that those who stand for the country's ability to mobilize all the resources will support these bills. Otherwise, it is even hard to imagine what the country is expecting in the near future. Our faction will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u15	Please, National Deputy Donny, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u16	Of course, the government's right and it's the government's duty to find a way out of a difficult situation, especially in the energy field, which is why the government was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's obvious that we're going to be looking at this situation. But. I wish we had respect for each other, and the government for the Supreme Council, and the Supreme Council for the government. Therefore, everything should work according to the Rules and the normal procedure. When we were offered a reduced procedure in 10 minutes to look for an operator for one of the few liquid goods left in Ukraine -- a gas transport network -- it's disrespectful to the Supreme Council. Such questions should be considered in full procedure. Before that, there should be normal answers and questions from the government. Well, I support my colleague, Paul Rosenck. If today was to be “a day of government, ” the government would have to report first to the Supreme Council. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u18	Turn on the microphone of the people's MP Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Today, it is necessary to establish additional powers for the Cabinet of Ministers and Minernergogil during the special work period. But I'm focusing your attention exclusively on the gas market, if authorization is to extend to the entire energy sector, with the simultaneous limitation of constitutional rights and market relations, such rights should be vested in the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not in the government itself. We have a valid law on the functioning of PEC during a special period that defines the mandate of Kabmin, but only after the decision of the President and the Supreme Council is taken: on mobilization, on the introduction of a state of emergency or martial law. The government bill proposes to circumvent the order laid down in this law. My bill envisions market approaches to a mechanism, a mechanism for setting up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u20	Half a minute, give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my bill, which regulates all the mechanisms and relationships in the special mode of operation of the fuel and energy complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u22	People's Deputy Furman, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u23	Alexei Furman, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Please give my word to the Peace Alexander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u24	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. It is unfortunate that on Friday many national deputies decided that they had already begun vacations and were no longer in the session hall at a time when the issue of national importance was really being considered. And we endorse the government's efforts in order, including in the energy field, and including in ensuring the energy independence of the state. But I think that when we start discussing these bills, we will once again highlight the proposals made yesterday by the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom for consideration, and if we see government support, we will unanimously support government bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u25	From the non-fractional People’s Derevyanco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! By supporting the necessary measures for a particular period in the fuel-energy complex, I ask you to support in Bill 4117a to the government those amendments that I proposed in the alternative. So to prepare for this state of emergency, we've used the rational cost that we have for energy conservation today. It's about the Kyoto funds. And in order to oblige the government in the first place to use these funds now so that we can warm and replace them with energy-saving windows, facades, our schools, gardens, hospitals, clinics. Please include this rule in the government bill. So that we can use these 3 billion dollars in a rational, transparent way. And so we can have that money. Which will work so that during a difficult period of time we will have schools burned down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we have all the factions speaking. We have a non-faction representative. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats, the Secretariat to make another announcement. And now I give the floor before we determine ourselves, Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! A coalition created in Parliament and opposition! Before we get to the drafts that have already been reported in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which have been reviewed twice in the Ukrainian profile committees and which relate to the energy security of the state, I would still ask the national deputies to listen to a brief report. So you and I have been working together for the last four months. In fact, the only basic bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been supported in the last four months. It's a bill on overcoming the financial crisis that allowed for the first tranche of the International Monetary Fund. I emphasize, just the first tranche of the International Monetary Fund loan. For other tranches, we will also need to adopt appropriate laws. Unfortunately, 2 dozen other laws introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not receive parliamentary support, 2 dozen bills, starting with the Ukrainian Act on Change in the Quality of the Judicial System, which provided for a illustration of judges who predicted the creation of a mechanism to replace the judiciary, were not supported by Parliament. Bills to change tax rates, to increase rents on energy products as profitable products themselves, have not been supported by Parliament either. And I can walk through every law that's passed by the government, but that doesn't get votes from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because there are too many different interests that are incompatible with the interests of the Ukrainian state. However, Parliament has voted a number of laws that are not secured by budgetary financing. I'd like to stand by the classic populist laws that can't be enforced and no one will, because there's no money in the country. Bills have already been passed for 300 billion dollars in 23 years. Constitutionally and in other courts, they walk, and there is no money to pay them because they wanted to like the electorate. As a result, the country was bankrupt. As for the bills that were passed. Think about it, only in the last 4 months have 8 laws been passed that require expenditure from Ukraine's State Budget by 2016, 11.5 billion dollars that do not exist. The other one. It is already adopted and is also signed by another 6 laws of Ukraine, which provide for budget expenditure of 34 billion dollars in total by 2016. It's a show of unlimited populism and lies to people -- no money! That's why, as Head of the Ukrainian Government, I think it's too difficult for the government and parliament to work in this format. And the hardest part is Ukraine for the Ukrainians. With regard to drafts that were not unwarranted yesterday even in the first reading. These bills were reported to me as the head of the government. These drafts of the third attempt were included in the agenda. They were considered twice on government committees, on the council of coalitions. All the leaders of factions and groups have confirmed the need to adopt these bills. Moreover, in order to find compromise, the government agreed to vote only on the first reading. I'm going to remind you that these are bills. A key bill that enables the process of modernizing and operating with our European and American partners in the Ukrainian gas transport system. It needs immediate investment, it needs to get as much Ukrainian GTS as possible and it needs income. We need Ukraine, together with European, American companies, to have more money to own a control package of shares in an operating company. And so our eastern or northern neighbors don't build the South Stream around Ukraine. Moreover, the bill makes it clear that the pipe itself remains solely a hundred percent government property as well as a gas shelter. The adoption of this law opens the way for Ukraine to build a new energy system where Ukraine becomes a player. Under other circumstances, in a few years, Russia will bypass Ukraine with other gas stations, and only air can be pumped through the Ukrainian pipe. You know the overriding situation that is on the energy market today is part of the war Russia has fought against Ukraine. In addition to the officers of GRU, heavy artillery, the financing that Russia is sending to Ukraine, apart from the financial pressure that is exerted on all subjects of farming in relation to Ukraine, besides economic pressure, where Russia is trying to round up all possible and impossible groves in order not to give Ukraine the opportunity to sell its goods and eventually survive. Russia has also solved the gas war with us. And in order to win any war, you have to unite, you have to be the only one, because the Ukrainian people will forgive us never, the country is at the border. And in order to get the country out, you have to have political responsibility, and in the end, the civic responsibility to the 45 millionth state. What's going on with the state of emergency energy bill? There are no ideal laws, and there will probably not be. But for that there is a parliament, a government, a president, to carry out his sacred function, to fight for his country. As the Head of Government would like me to make it clear that there will be no blackmail on the part of the government: either we work or we don't work. If there is no common vision and joint work to save the country and get out of this extraordinary dramatic situation in the country, there will be a reformation of the Supreme Council, government and coalition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that in order to vote on laws (4117a) we need to go back to their consideration. In the event of a failure to address these issues, there will be no more discussion, and everyone will be determined according to their responsibilities and responsibilities. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. I'd like all the national deputies to take their seats. Alexander Ivanovich. Arseny Petrovich, now vote, Alexander Ivanovich, then we can talk about the responsible vote, please. Please prepare for a responsible vote, turn on the "Council" system. Please support the inclusion, more faithfully, of drafts of the Special Period Act in the fuel and energy complex, as well as the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on reforming the administration of Ukraine's single gas transport system. Please support the return to these questions. Let me remind you of the registration numbers -- 4117 and 4116, a in the first and second cases. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all over. Please support the offer. Please vote. [[11:08:55]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Party of Regions – 0, Strike – 38, 34 - Economic Development, 34 - Freedom, 30 - Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – 0, Communist Party of Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 18. Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you. We discussed this yesterday. Is there a need to discuss it again? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u30	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich! You know, I never thought that, being together in one coalition, I would have to react here, in the hall, to your expressions and to your instruction to the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] I'm not saying that there are saints here, or maybe the other way around. But perhaps this government is not entirely literate and properly led to the knowledge of the Ukrainian Parliament, what and how to vote? Perhaps this position of yours was in relation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Parliament did not support yesterday what the government proposed? I'd like, if you please, Alexander Valentine's Day, just 30 seconds. I'd like to say clearly the position of Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u31	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u32	To put clearly the position of Freedom on this point, and I think this position is completely state-owned. It's about the first law. Allow special status to be introduced by the Supreme Council for the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers, not by the Cabinet of Ministers when he wants to do so, but by 400 billion! Let's publish this process. What's more, you can convince us -- and of course we will vote if you say that's what we should do. And the second. We insist on the second law that the composition of the shareholders of the operator be approved by the Supreme Council. To prevent that from happening, we signed an agreement on who will manage the gas transport system, and it turns out that the shareholder of the European operator is Gazprom. Moreover, 144 European companies have shareholders of the Russian enemy in Gazprom. Let's make those adjustments and then we, and not only "Freedom," but everyone else, vote. And for the rest. I would very much like to have, at a time, really complicated, we have a little bit of our inner emotions down and act on the basis of our national interests. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u33	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! We need to support Ukraine's energy security. I fully agree with the suggestions made by the previous speaker that we are obliged to adopt the law today, not by delaying it, but by giving the Supreme Council the right to decide on the issue of the introduction of a state of emergency. But this extraordinary state of gas supply has already come up, and that's why it's a matter of procedure, and we have to stick to it and resolve it. Dear colleagues, second question. Energy security so that Ukraine doesn't freeze, the government needs to move TEC to coal today, to buy oil, because in winter we won't get the gas and freeze the country. And you don't have to translate that question. You raise tariffs, you don't increase taxes for big business, you lobby.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u35	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Prime Minister and the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! It was suggested that many populist laws had been enacted in the past few months. Maybe. But I'd like to ask Mr. Prime Minister to look at the authorship, who passed this bill, and maybe you can influence them, because they're your associates. And it's whether Parliament votes or not. Your Honor, I've asked the Minister of Economics here a question, Sheremet. I'm saying you're saying you're resigning. He spoke of himself if Parliament did not accept structural reform, structural reforms in the economy. I said, what did you do to really structurally change the economy of Ukraine? He didn't say a word. That's why I think we're going to support this bill, our group, but, Your Honor Arsenius Petrovich, a comprehensive programme for reforming Ukraine's economy, in fact, it's worth accepting, accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u37	Please, National Deputy Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u38	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party For Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. Of course, every government deserves criticism only because I think it is the least because it acts publicly, openly and without fear of responsibility. This has not been the case in the days of Ukraine’s new independence. What is the government's mistake with these bills? Especially with the other one. First mistake. The government is running a consistent pro-Ukrainian policy -- that's a mistake I'm saying in quotes. Therefore, all those who represent the fifth column of the gas program usually make an effort not to pass through the bill. And the second, in the paws of this government. A bill was introduced without working with local parliamentary oligarchs. It's said that the only operator of the gas transport system is sitting here with sharks that weren't shared in advance. So I think in these two bills the government needs to be supported in principle. It's because he's so open and determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u40	And it's working very well, and that's why yesterday, when the first reading of Parliament votes, the government is ready to consider, together with Parliament, the criteria of this single operator of the gas transport system, please take a public seat, under the cameras, and determine who this structure is going to be the only operator. And then you can bring it into Parliament and we'll confirm it together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u41	People's deputy Lazko and let's be determined, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues. I'm talking to some colleagues who may have taken a note of Arsenius Yatsenuk's speech. Let's see what the Prime Minister's situation is. And let's see, and let's understand that the Prime Minister as the head of the government is responsible, including for the state of the fuel-energy complex of Ukraine in a special period! And unlike many of you, he sees a little further away from his own nose. What if we don't prepare for the winter, if we don't take measures to protect national interests now, in winter people will be without heat, without water, without gas. If that happens, they'll come here and take you all out! Especially those who scream so much here! You, Darmoids, go as a people, look alive! When they're out of gas, they pay for nothing. And then you'll scream, you'll parasite. Vote, Darmoids!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u43	People's deputies are insolent. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit in my seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u44	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Everyone's here because we had gas in winter and we didn't freeze. Government proposals aimed at increasing energy independence need to be supported. But I agree with the comments that colleagues have made regarding the final decision of the Supreme Council. Therefore, the request for a second reading should be taken into account. And the second is that you have to consider. That our gas transport system uses 6 to 7 billion technology gas. It needs to be modernised. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! You were in charge in 2009 as First Deputy Prime Minister. We have a national enterprise modernization program that will allow us to save 2-3 billion cubic meters of gas. Let those investors who plan to come give money. And let our businesses carry out those tasks. I would ask that this be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, come on, Matvienkov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u46	Matvienkov, Mariupol, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues! You know, I listened very carefully to the Prime Minister's statement, and I remembered his words when he said, "We know, we know, we do, we do." There are no questions. Do it, set an order, we'll do it where we need to do it, we'll support it. As far as gas is concerned. With regard to gas, any Government that comes, unfortunately, starts with one of the allocations, with the allocation of mechanisms. The law that we are proposing, the law that we are offered today, it introduces lawlessness, which is called government regulation. Our faction proposed a bill, by the way, our opinion coincided with the Freedom faction, where we say, "Do you want a state of emergency? Let us introduce this state of emergency through Parliament, let us regulate through Parliament but regulate the gas market." That's the first question. With regard to the second bill. We can talk for hours in a row today, but if we divide the scrap metal, the gas pipe without the gas, we end up talking alone, we'll end up selling this scrap metal. Let us finally sit down and think about how to protect the country's economy as a whole, not.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, representatives of both the opposition and the majority spoke. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take your seats. And now, now is a very responsible moment to identify yourself. We need to support Project 4117a. I want to remind everyone who has made proposals on this law, including the Party of Regions, namely, honourable colleagues, is the first reading, that is, on a basis. And I don't rule out that until the second reading, together with the government, we're going to work out this draft law and proposals that were both about parliamentary control and about other fundamentals will be taken into account in the second reading. Therefore, respectable colleagues. I ask all national deputies to support Project 4117a, to protect the country under these difficult conditions of energy war against Ukraine. Please consider the suggestions for the second reading, please cooperate with your colleagues. You know how. The amendment was written and supported by the committee and the government. So please, your honors, sit in your seats, prepare for the vote and support the first reading, which is the basis of a special period bill in the fuel-energy complex 4117a. Please vote on the basis. [[11:21:38]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. Next question, dear colleagues. 4116a, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on reforming the administration of Ukraine's single gas transport system. I remind you that the proposals that have been made must be taken into account in the second reading concerning the approval of the managing companies in Parliament in order to leave the gas transport system exclusively to state ownership. So all of these proposals, I'm asking them to be included in the second reading. Please, Your Honor, support the project in the first reading and on the basis of accepting it. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:22:39]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. Ba 77, Party of Regions – 0, Hit – 36, 35 – Economic Development, 34 – Freedom, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – Peace and Stability, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u48	Alexander Valentinovich, name the faction "For Peace and Stability" as Chaos and Bardac.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the issue of the corruption of MPs from the "For Peace and Stability" faction, I ask the prosecution to check it out. I'm not going to check it out myself. Yes, dear colleagues, please. The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u50	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Thank you for having made at least a small but forward step. After listening to all your suggestions, visions, criticisms, I will allow myself to avoid quarreling and finding out about relations, but I would like to announce publicly to the members of the coalition: I propose to start a process of consultation on the transformation and reinforcement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, do we have a lot of important questions, especially when I come to the hall: are we ready to finish the election of members of the National Council for Television and Radio? Ready. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I would like to remind you that, after we were unable to elect members of the Council, we have decided on the voting, the re-voting for those candidates who have received more than 200 votes of support and the last vote that we have voted on, as well as the rating vote to determine the order. Please, dear fellows. Mikola Volodymyrovich, we can vote. Please, the head of the committee of Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! I'm literally one thesis, and I want to apologize to the candidates for their position in Nakrad for some of the people's deputies. Because yesterday, friends, a lot. No, that's not right. I'll say, some of the national MPs were sore for their candidates that they allowed themselves to be unpublished and unattractive, I'd say rude remarks to professional people who were running for positions as members of the Nacrada. And once again, I want to say that we didn't have such a powerful professional membership: we don't have people with fake degrees here, and we don't have people on the media who haven't had any days of practice who voted in the previous period. So my friends, all of them were working with someone, whether Tomenko or Petrenko and so on. So I would ask you not to insult these people and vote for any of them today because they're all professionals. In the context of the information war, going on a summer without Nakradya is treason and a crime against the Ukrainian state. Please vote for anyone, but today we have a decision to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Let me remind you, on the proposal announced by Sergei Sobolev and supported by Parliament, we consider the last vote to be a rating vote. To him, I will be in that sequence, in the number of votes that the candidates received during the final vote, to put the candidates to the hearing. I'd like my colleagues to take their seats. Please decide how to vote. Colleagues, in the final vote, 163, received the highest number of votes, claimed by Kotenko Caterina Sergiyovna. Please be aware, please, that I am asking my colleagues to sit down, and then I will not vote, and this is the fate of the National Council for Television and Radio. Please decide on the support of Catenko Catherine Sergiyivne, please vote, responsibly, honourable colleagues, please vote. [[11:28:33]] For 310 Welcome to the election, the decision is made. () [[Applause]] The second result was 157 votes in the final vote by Ilyashenko Alexander Borisovich. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself as to the support of Ilyashenko Alexander Borisovich. Please vote. [[11:29:13]] For 233 Decision taken. Hello. [[Applause]] The next candidate he had at the last vote received, more faithfully, 153 votes were Gerasimük Olena. Olga, I'm sorry, Volodymyr. Please identify your support for Gerasimük Olga Volodymyrna. Please vote. [[11:29:57]] For 305 Decision taken. Hello. [[Applause]] The following result: 143 votes were cast over by Mesanik's Catherine Andriyovna. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself as to the support of butcher Catherine Andriyevna. Please vote. [[11:30:36]] For-137 The decision is not taken. The next candidate received 139 votes in the final vote, no, sorry, a hundred. That's right, 139 votes, that's Chernish. Is that a name, your father's? You're black, Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself as to the support of Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[11:31:29]] For 186 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, next challenger. The factions, please. Parenthood – 27, Party of Regions – 59, Impact – 33, 36 - Economic Development, Freedom – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 5, Peace and Stability – 4, Ukraine - 0. Dear colleagues, the final challenger. Martinjuk Rostislav Mikhailovich. Please identify your support for Martinyuk Rostislav Mikhailovich. Please vote. [[11:32:26]] For 178 votes. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 74, Regions – 0.39 – Impact, 0 – Economic Development, Freedom – 34, 16 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability – 0, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 15. Dear colleagues, we have one vacancy left. I would like to give the floor to the head of the committee of Mikola Tomenka so that he can offer us a way to move forward. We've only got one vacancy left. We've only chosen three candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we have two options. The first option is to re-vote and identify the three worthy ones and fill the fourth vacancy. Or move on to the list below, so we have 16, now we have 6 votes -- we have 10 left. The only problem is, as you can understand, I'm going to tell you a terrible secret that we can move on, but it's only the person who's had the discussion of previous MP groups and factions. If there's an expormation, of course, we probably don't vote. Therefore, it is now necessary to determine whether to stop temporarily, or to vote three more, to choose one, or to vote ten others below.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u55	Please, National Deputy Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u56	Gentlemen, we're close to completing the formation of our four, I call for that. And we still have to go through the procedure, because we're going to expect exemplary law enforcement from future members of the Nakrad. The procedure obliges us to reach the end of the list. We stopped at the middle of the list for reasons that are unclear to people yesterday, and we can't do the same today. Let's get to the end of the list. And I would like to draw attention to Taras Shevchenk's candidate, who was asked to support the journalistic community, "Stop censorship!", "Reanimation reform package." They don't have the right to vote here in this room, so I wanted to draw attention to this candidate from among the other decent people that we're about to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I have another offer. Guys, I think she's gonna make everybody happy. Realizing that we would certainly like to fill this last vacancy and whoever receives more support, he has a chance of becoming the fourth member of the Nakrad of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have another offer. There were two suggestions. I think we're going to put them together. I'm going to put three candidates to the vote right now who don't vote because they have the most votes. When these three candidates don't get the results. The result won't get any of them, then I'll go on the list, even after who got the smallest number of votes. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. Guys, I'm sorry. I was approached by factions, asked by factions to do so. Fellows, I say again, we're gonna lose time. Let those who have more chances and then all, I promise, put them all to the vote. Dear colleagues, we have, I am not mistaken, maybe I am wrong, we have not received the support of Mesaskov, Chernish, and Martinyuk. Dear colleagues, in this order: Meatloaf Catherine Andriyevna, Chernish and Martinyuk – I put to the vote. After that, I'll go all over the list of 16 of our candidates. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. And I ask you to determine how to vote on the support of Butcher Catherine Andrienne. Vote please, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u58	Meatloaf. [[11:36:29]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Next contender, Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine your support for Chernish Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[11:36:55]] For 232 Decision taken. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have thus chosen members of the National Council for Television and Radio: Gerasimük, Chernish, Ilyashenko, and Kotenko. Please welcome the members of the National Council on Television and Radio. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please, National Deputy Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, we can certainly welcome the new members of the National Television Council today, but, dearly elected members of the National Council, one second, please pay attention. Because today we've actually chosen, not party quotas, but TV groups. Because who's going to control the TV groups today is their representatives. And at this point, I promise you, honourable members of the National Council, wait, please accept each other's greetings, I promise you, if the Ukrainian television shows don't disappear, if the actual disgraceful practice of ignoring license terms is not stopped, the tires will burn permanently.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I ask you to suppress your emotions, this is an important question. Thank you Parliament for making the decision. But we need to discuss today and make a decision about all the order of the day. Dear colleagues, we have a few weeks off from the plenary. And we're going to work in committees and factions and with our voters. But, I remind you, dear colleagues. We made decisions about the continuous work of Parliament. We need to approve of important issues. And I'm asking the faction leaders and the MPs to organize their colleagues' work so no one can part. Right now, without a break, let's go over the question. And then you can go responsiblely to work in committees and districts. Dear colleagues, regarding the second reading. First. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Specificity of Acclarating Tax Obligations for Business Income Taxes and Taxes on Added Costs in the case of Tax Compromise. We had a meeting of faction leaders. And the suggestion is to move this issue to the next sessional week, working out some aspects of this law. Please, Your Honor, next question. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on prejudice (minimization) to have a negative impact on the stability of the banking system. It's a very important question. Kayda Alexei Petrovich, deputy chairman of the committee. Please, not just the deputy, but the first deputy. Guys, let's not break up! Well, take responsibility for your voters. They are waiting for the adoption of laws that protect Ukraine's financial system, which protect Ukraine's banking system. Please, colleagues, mobilize, hold on!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! I will note that the bill is important because its adoption is provided for by Ukraine’s international commitments and previous programming measures to support the development policy of the financial sector provided by the World Bank. The following bill on corporate governance, 0961, is also an integral part of the World Bank’s lending program. I will also point out that the committee established a working group composed of experts from the World Bank, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and the Banking Community, which has repeatedly gathered to discuss the draft legislation and, as a result of fruitful cooperation, agreed on the perfect text of the bill for second reading. During the drafting of the bill for second reading, the working group dealt with 64 proposals from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Bilkova, Zenzerski, Fursin, Edina, Espenova, Dmitruka, of which 49 were included, including partially, editorially and in fact, rejected 15. The need for the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act on amending certain Ukrainian laws to prejudice the minimization of the negative impact on the stability of the banking system is based on the need to strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investment of Individuals in order to respond promptly to support the stability of the banking system. Questions that are resolved and refined by the bill. First. It is envisaged that the National Bank of Ukraine is not allowed to register its legal acts. This will allow Nazbank Ukraine to respond in a timely manner to changes in Ukraine's banking system and to intervene expeditiously in order to prejudice the minimization of negative effects. The other one. Extended criteria for which a bank may be classified as troublesome or insolvent. Third. The Trust Guarantee Fund provides the possibility of issuing bonds and issuing bills to finance them at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. Four. The bill confers the right of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons to establish criteria for the substantiveity of violations of legislation relating to the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to the differentiation of administrative and economic sanctions and their size. Fifth. The bill is socially significant. Because it gives the authorized person the right to pay alimony, pensions, scholarships, and other social benefits during the temporary administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u62	Please finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u63	The bill provides for improvements in the procedure for the withdrawal of insolvent banks from the market, including through the creation of a transitional bank. Seven. With a view to providing financial support to the receiving or transferring bank, the Deposit Guarantee Fund is granted the right to lend to such banks under the conditions of a subordinated debt. Eight. The Bill extends the mandate of the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons in banks classified in the category.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u64	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u65	This is very important. Nine. The bill also amends the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree (since 21.01.1993) (No7/93) on State Customs, the laws of Ukraine "On Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activities", "On State Procurement", "On Exchange of Bills in Ukraine", "On Securities and Stock Markets", "On Insurance" to improve and improve the quality of the Fund's activities to guarantee the investments of individuals. On the basis of the above, the committee recommends the adoption of the prescribed bill on second reading and in general. I also request that the Chief Legal Authority, together with the Committee, be instructed, after the adoption of the law as a whole, to bring appropriate technical and legal rights to the law in relation to its complex structure. Well, I'd like to point out, unfortunately, but we don't see the Head of Nutzbank in the government bed right now, nor the First Deputy, nor the Deputy, even though the insistence on adopting this bill sounded exactly from Nutzbank. And I would like the representatives, the new representatives, or the new Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, if this is very defective for the country and for Nitzbank the bill, to overwhelm the Supreme Council with its presence, or at least to direct its first deputy here. Thank you. Please vote and support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to form the last part of the speech of the national MP, Kaida, as a request to the head of the National Bank. Please, Your Honor, we have heard the committee's position: virtually all the remedies that national MPs have insisted on are considered -- this is a really important issue concerning the protection of Ukraine's banking and financial system. And I'm asking you, dear fellows, to take your seats now. So we don't support the law when there's no discipline. Colleagues, I'd like the secretariat to announce everyone to the hall. Colleagues, please go to the polling stations. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that it is necessary to read the Rules at some point: there is no discussion during the second reading, no speeches. Colleagues, when someone insists on their amendment, I can allow the MP to put his amendment to the vote. Are you insisting on your amendment? Oh, no? Then, I'm sorry, we won't be discussing this. Please, my fellow Members, please, colleagues, sit on your posts and support the second reading and, as a whole, the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws to prejudice the minimization of the negative impact on the stability of the banking system. Please, Your Honor, in the second and, in general, 4938 registration number, I would like to remind you of the vote. [[11:48:05]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 66 - Fatherland, Party of Regions - 0, Hit - 31, 34 - Economic Development, 34 - Freedom, 23 - "North Ukraine", "For Peace and Stability" - only 1 MP is speaking, the Company - 0, non-fractional - 21. Dear colleagues, what are the suggestions from the committee? Please. Please include the government's bed, listen to the offer of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers now, then the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, perhaps the whole of this package of bills has not been very clear, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to highlight a few things. First of all, it will really allow us to do very nice and right things in the banking field, and actually, to protect our depositors under the guarantee fund is the first. Yesterday we passed the law of Knjazević, which concerns these changes, including. The other one. It's very important, the cost of this, except that it's reform, is also the money that comes into the state budget. The World Bank and the Monetary Fund have supported this reform package, and under this package they're giving us $1 billion this year in the state budget -- a billion dollars by the end of the year, the cost of this issue is this cost. A very big request may be put to the vote again, perhaps someone has not fully understood the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I think when. The National Bank he could also speak and MPs supported. And that's one of the reasons why I think we don't have 10 votes. Please, National Deputy Gordienko on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u69	Dear Chairman! Dear citizens of Ukraine! A number of important drafts are under consideration today, and most of them were expected to support and vote. But I point out that the second day by ignoring the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, the chairman of Ukraine cynically does not grant a faction with a guaranteed right to argue positions does not allow for the right to speak and argue. In this regard, we leave the session room and do not return until you have finished reading the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u70	I'm, you know, predicting you won't have to go back to the hall. () [[Applause]] Because there is virtually no reason for your faction to exist, and that mistake in the Rules, I hope, will soon be rectified. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the proposal from the government, I hope, will also be supported by a profile committee. Please include the national MP, Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished fellow MPs! We'll support the proposal from the profile committee, the proposal by the deputy minister of finance to return to the vote. If we don't get the right number of votes again, we're going to propose that this bill be re-readed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, once again, we don't have a discussion. There was a speech by a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, Minfin, to be delivered by a profile committee. The economists came forward, they asked for attention to the fact that they had left the hall. We've been paying attention to that. Dear colleagues, please return to the question, registered number 4938. Now, the only thing we can do now is vote and discuss the next issue. We have Valery Mihajlovich Suškević, who asked for a minute so that he could get to his place of work. Dear people's deputies, I'm the only one asking you very much, let's vote right now. We don't have that many questions, but they're very important. And we need to vote now so that we don't repeat the vote several times in a row. Please, distinguished national deputies, support the return to the question (4938). Please vote. [[11:53:07]] For 229 At the border, Your Honor, the decision is made. Let's support the project in the second reading and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Andrew Volodymyrovich, you won't be able to get to your button. In the second reading and in general, please vote. [[11:53:37]] For 225 Friends, you know, if you don't run around the hall, we won't have that kind of trouble! I'm asking you to take your seats! I want to say again, you don't have to play here! You don't have to. You don't have to. In accordance with the Rules, please. Dear colleagues, please, two deputies, please return to the matter. Please, colleagues! Colleagues, take your seats. I won't ask you ten times for a vote. Colleagues, please return to this question. Please. [[11:54:28]] For 230 Please support me in my second reading and in general. Please vote. We're voting accordingly! [[11:54:46]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. 77 - Fatherland, Regions - 1, Impact - 36, 31 - Economic Development, Freedom - 34, 28 - Sovereign European Ukraine, Peace and Stability - 2, Company - 0, non-fractional - 22. Please, one minute to Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we are always in the session room supporting everything that banks are asking for, asking for government. But, dear colleagues, today a law has been proposed on what is called a tax compromise. So yesterday, the Supreme Council supported the National Bank. And if that law is passed in general, hundreds of thousands of foreign - currency lenders will be on the street! Hundreds of men can kill themselves! We're back on track -- we're backing up banks, we're supporting big business, instead of taking sides with people. I appeal to the National Deputies to respond responsibly and by no means support the law of the National Bank and the bankers who rob and do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak with the People's Deputy Kaplin one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u75	I'd like to do it on behalf of hundreds of thousands, or maybe millions of Ukrainians, who are already on the street, to hand over to one of their colleagues, who has recently been elected the leader of a left-wing political power, and in fact it was an attempt at something that smells bad, to make a bullet, to pass on why these people are on the street. These people are on the street because some have been destroying the Ukrainian state for a long time: voting for the laws of Yanukovich. Because some have stolen all the gas towers in my native Poltava region. Because in some hundreds of pairs of ostrich shoes that these millions will put on their heads if they continue to pursue populism and destroy the Ukrainian state! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u76	Please, Ivanchuk, Fatherland. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Head! I'd like to ask you. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Come on. I ask you, Mr. Head, to contact the Attorney General for a violation of a criminal case against the People's Deputy Rudzkowski for the article "Intention on a State Actor". I think everyone's tired of listening to the instruction of a man who brings soldiers to Parliament and gives them a command to beat MPs. [[Applause]] Please consider my statement to be a question of the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u78	Colleagues, the discussion is over. Come on. We won't be able to accept the question. Please! Colleagues, let's now listen to the committee head. I'll give you my word, next time. Please report to National Deputy Kayda, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banks, prepared for the second reading of Law 0961, amending the Law on Banking and Banking (the definition of corporate governance in banks). Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u79	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. This bill is designed to improve corporate governance in banks, which takes into account the principle of effective corporate governance of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and international corporate governance practices. It should be noted that since the adoption of the bill in the first reading, which was another March 1, 2011, there has been a considerable period during which Ukrainian legislation, including banking, has undergone some changes, which in turn requires adjustments to the draft legislation. I will point out that the Committee received 16 amendments only from the National Bank of Ukraine, at the time the subject of the legislative initiative, which were processed and included in the comparative table and taken into account, such as those that improve and fully regulate the scope of the bill. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on October 8, 2013 and recommended for adoption in second reading and in general as a law. The adoption of the bill is an important step towards the implementation of Ukrainian banks' practices and the organisation of the best global standards for them, the integration of the Ukrainian banking system into the global financial system, and the restoration of trust in banks by society. I would also like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a bill on 17 June 2014 on amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the prejudice against minimization and negative influence and stability of the banking system, number 4938, which is not in line with the draft law prepared for the second reading. For the stenographer. In order to ensure the harmonization of new bills, it is proposed that such amendments be made to the bill (registration number 0961). First. Paragraph 6 of part 5 of the fifth new edition of article 39 of the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine reads: "Approval of the Bank's Restoration Plan". This is in paragraph 6. The other one. In a new edition of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Banking and Banking in the first sentence of the first part of the first word, "and should also include a plan of action in case of unforeseen circumstances" – to exclude. To be completed after part one of the new content: "A Systemically important bank, taking into account the direction of its activities and its risks, is obliged to develop a recovery plan for the bank." On the basis of the above, the committee recommends the adoption of this law as a whole. And I would like to personally thank the Deputy Minister of Finance, who is present in our session room and who is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I remind you, the law is discussed in a second reading. We're not discussing it, dear colleagues, we're voting. Colleagues, please, project 0961, it defines the characteristics of corporate governance in banks. Please, Your Honor, support the adoption of this law in the second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. The second and the whole. [[12:03:01]] For 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Guys, we don't have a lot of questions left. I'm asking you, we work all the time until an hour, then "Rizzle." So that we can get to the bottom of these questions. Okay? Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues! Next question. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for additional guarantees of social protection for military personnel during a special period). I'd like to ask the National Deputy of Saints for one minute to report on the basic positions of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u81	Honorary Colleagues, May 20, this year the Supreme Council passed the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws to Improve Defence Billing Questions during Mobilization. The adoption of this law resulted in a situation where we cannot by law release anyone from military service during a special period. But there are, for example, members of the military who have a court sentence and need to be released from military service. And in this regard, we propose these amendments. Another question that arose when there was a special period was that it was not possible to release military personnel on vacation. But there are pregnant women soldiers and they need to be released on vacation. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, strictly technical questions. Please sit in your workplace, strictly technical, regarding pregnant women, regarding those to be released from the Armed Forces. Please, honourable national deputies, sit in your seats and support the proposal to include in the agenda of the 4079a project's day session a change to some legislative acts on additional guarantees of social protection for military personnel during a special period. Please, Your Honor, put in the order of the day. Please be supportive. [[12:05:37]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a basis and in general. Please, from the profile committee, there's a little correction and we can figure it out. People's deputy Greenewecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, I would like to report that on 2 July the committee at its meeting has considered the bill and unanimously proposes to accept it as a basis and as a whole with such amendments. In the first paragraph of section I, paragraph 1, of the draft digit and the words "paragraphs 17 and 18" should be replaced by the words "paragraphs 17-19". Paragraph 2 of Section 1 of Project I puts it in this section. 17. "In a special period, from the time of mobilization to the time of introduction of the state of war or until the decision is taken to demobilize, the provision of annual basic leave to military personnel is carried out in the absence of a maximum of 30 per cent of the total number of military personnel of a category of the respective unit." Paragraph 4 of Section 1 of Project I delete. Paragraph 1 of section I of the draft is to be completed by paragraph 1. 19. "The provision of military personnel during the periods provided for in paragraphs 17 and 18 of this article, other types of leave except for female service leave. "
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u85	"...for female servicemen in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, to care for the child until he reaches the age of three, and if the child needs home care for a period of time, as defined in the medical conclusion, but no more than six years. Also, leave in connection with the disease or treatment after a serious injury has been concluded by a military-medical commission is terminated." Paragraph 2 of the draft is drafted as follows: "In paragraph 1 of part eight of article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service." First. The words and digits "1. During the mobilization process, replace with the words and digits "1." From the time the mobilization is announced to the time defined in paragraph 2 or in paragraph 3 of part eight of this article." The other one. After paragraph "E", add this to the paragraph. "Army officers may also be released from military service on the grounds provided by paragraphs in, uh, e, there are, and parts of the sixth and points in, uh, e, are part of this seventh article." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, obviously, the law raises a technical question, but both pregnant women and others need it really so that we don't have a colossal in doing what we do. Officials, including military personnel, and women of their constitutional duties. Please, Your Honor, support Project 4079a as a whole. Please, dear fellows. [[12:09:13]] For 259. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have missed, rushed and missed an important bill that reduces the tax burden on our citizens. I know that we're having a hard time getting higher right now, and the tax cuts are always being actively supported by the MPs. This is a project that amends the Ukrainian Tax Code on Capital Taxation. Please sell Oksana Petrovna, very short, 4101 (registration number 4101a). Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u87	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! Today we have a situation where we tax interest on deposits so that from each person, regardless of the amount of deposits that they have, the bank subtracts 15 percent of the VAT. Then this money, at the end of the year, is taken from the bank, will have to be given early in the year, each, a tax declaration, will be recalculated, and one will be paid, the other will be guilty. We understand how money is being returned to us by the state, so today, as of July 1, 15 to 25 percent of the VAT went into effect with interest on deposits. This bill, introduced by the government, envisions a change in this system. When we voted with you in the first reading, there were a few choices, a few comments to the project when we were speaking. When working with the working group, all the comments made at the time were taken into account in the room, which was amended. We're projecting a linear rate of interest tax on deposits of 15 percent, taxation of the investment income royalty of the same 15 to 17 percent linear rate. and tax dividends 5 percent. Similarly, we have clarified in this bill how tax returns on the income of natural persons will be made if the deposit is previously withdrawn if any amounts have already been paid. All of these calculations are counted. Similarly, changes to the budget are proposed in order to channel all revenue from this tax to the State budget of Ukraine. The committee has considered this bill on July 2nd at its meeting, and we ask you all to vote in favour of this bill on the basis and in general. And for the transcript, I'd like to ask and give you an assignment when I graduate, when I'm preparing for the bill, to process it with technical legal rights. I'm asking you to support everyone in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues with the proposals announced by the People's Chamber of Commerce, I ask you to support Project 4101a in the second reading and in general. This is an important issue that reduces the tax burden on our citizens. Please support your fellow Members, please vote on the second reading as well as on the whole. [[12:12:29]] For 267 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next important law that many of our citizens look forward to, especially those who have very serious health problems. Please refer to the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on specific issues of medical and social expertise (registration number 4528). The head of the Committee on Health Care, Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna, briefly reports. Please, the information, literally, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u89	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Now, in our country, 1.5 million people with disabilities and 250,000 -- these are the disabled P and S groups that don't have arms or legs or have non-revolving health changes, and our laws are being reviewed every year. The bigger term is three years. And in this bill that was introduced by Bachevi, Suškević, Lášk, Ilik, Heleway, Dukka, we predict that such patients need to be disabled so that they don't grow up and the leg doesn't grow up. The Science and Experimental Authority will support this bill. I would just like to point out under the transcript that in the text of the bill, which deals with changes to article 69 of the basic legislation of Ukraine on health care, instead of the word "anyone who has the body's function violated" is to say, "a persistent disorder of the body's functions", as stated in the title of this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sure everyone understands what this is all about. A person has no arm or leg, and every year he must drive, confirm that he does not have this leg, his hands. Well, it's bullying people, isn't it? We need to fix this right now. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please support the inclusion of the day-to-day project (4528). Please support the inclusion of this law in the order of the day. Please vote. [[12:14:59]] For 276 Decision taken. And immediately, with respect to the amendment that was made by the National Deputy of the Baychev, I ask for the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[12:15:24]] For 269 Decision taken. It's a thank you, dear colleagues, from all the disabled we've simplified our lives. And really humanely, objectively, they approached these problems. By factions, please let everyone know who voted. Parenthood – 67, Party of Regions – 38, 32 – Impact, Economic Development – 33, Freedom – 34, Sovereign, European Ukraine – 28, Peace and Stability – 15, Company 0 voted in favour of this project, non-fractional – 22. Please, Your Honor, let's move on to the next question. Colleagues, we'll get there, we'll get there. We have time, and we can go all day. Colleagues, we'll get to him, Valery Mikhailovich, we'll get to him. Let's have some stamina. First reading, dear colleagues. Please, we have two projects in the first reading. It is the Ministry of Agriculture that insists that this is a question that is very important to the village. All I wanted was, can we really support Valery Mikhailovich? Valerius Mikhailovich! Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich! Let's talk about this, your honor, here's the local question, because these issues need to be discussed, and this is a question we've already discussed. This is 3225: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Associations. Yesterday we had a conflict with the Cabinet of Ministers. Turn on Suškevitch’s microphone, Mikhailovich. And let us support the unification of the disabled. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want to thank our speaker, the Head of the Supreme Council, for remembering civil society. And all the public organizations that apply to all of the country's social organizations. I'm asking you to support the fact that for all the years, there have been veterans, invalids, pensioners, the Olympic Committee, the Paralympic Committee, sports federations, all social organizations, environmental and cultural. They always had legal status in the district organizations. During President Yanukovic’s reforms, their legal status was, unfortunately, eliminated. It was an absolute mistake. I ask simply to return, including in the context of decentralization and power, and of all the Ukrainian organizations, to return the status of a legal person to the regional public organizations of persons with disabilities, urban organizations and so on. Today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, do you understand the position? We've discussed this, we just have to make a decision about him. I'm asking you, let's not start this discussion right now, let's define by vote. 3225. There is a suggestion to go back to his consideration and vote. Please support the proposal made by the Committee on Disability and Veterans and support the return to this issue. 3225 please vote. [[12:18:34]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please we had this. to enact this law, so let's formulate this law as a whole No.3225. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. [[12:19:08]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two questions to consider in the first reading. This is the help of our peasants who feed Ukraine and many other countries of the world under difficult conditions. Dear colleagues, this is about a draft Act amending certain legislation on the identification and registration of animals. And the draft Law amending the Budget Code on the inclusion of leases for water objects in local budgets. This is support for real local budgets. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support a simplified procedure for dealing with these issues. Please vote. [[12:20:03]] For 204 The decision is in favour of 204 people's deputies. Agrarian politics and food Minister Igor Alexanderovich Schwaika will report on a draft of the Act amending certain legislation on the identification and registration of animals. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u93	Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! We're looking at two bills today, they were the subject of an agrarian political committee. There is a bill introduced by the government, No4987, which is designed to implement major strategic tasks in the area of public health, which introduces Ukraine on its way to the European Union, to control the state’s incident situation, to ensure that the country’s population is safe for food products of animal origin, and to ensure the competitiveness of animal production in European and world markets. The project proposes to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the identification and registration of animals. In particular, the Law on the Identification and Registration of Animals proposes to amend the obligation of the identification and registration of animals that are kept and divorced for their own consumption, the introduction of a group identification number that will assist in the movement of groups of piglets, the provision of compensation for services with the identification and registration of large bovine animals that are kept and distributed to natural persons. Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences are made, including Article 107. 2. The implementation of the draft Law will allow: the introduction of an element of surveillance in the circulation of live animals and the production of animal origin; the creation of a legal basis for the effective functioning of the State control system in the field of sanitary and anti-epizootic protection of the population; and the competitiveness of domestic producers of animal origin in European and world food markets. Please be supportive. In the absence of such support, please support the MP's bill, which essentially repeats these positions. For the Ministry in this situation, it doesn't matter in principle; it is important for us to adopt these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u94	Thank you. People's MP Mirny. A record of his law. Or, Alexander, perhaps what the minister said you support? The law's practically just clarifying government law, right? So we just have enough people to make decisions. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u95	Deputy Capplin insists on animal matters. Dear colleagues, one minute of the committee that supports and votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u96	Dear fellow MPs, the Committee on Agricultural Policy has reviewed both bills and recommends to the Supreme Council to support the bill number 4987/1 introduced by our colleagues - Lapina, Gorina, Vaszczuk and Mirni. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, let's start the vote, 4987 draft Act amending certain legislation on the identification and registration of animals. I'll remind you that we're talking about the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this project in the first reading. Please vote. [[12:23:42]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there was a committee proposal to support a first-reading parliamentary project that actually takes these issues into account, and some of them even expand. So please. 4987-1, please, Your Honor, stand by. So in the first reading, please vote. [[12:24:15.]] For 197 Dear colleagues, the decision is not made. The factions, please. Well, good questions, well, important questions. 61 – "Paternal Development", "Freedom" – 33, 26 – "North European Ukraine", 1 only – "For Peace and Stability" and the Company – traditionally 0, non-fractional – 17. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u98	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to stress to the Chamber of Deputies that we have to perform the functions of protecting and expanding markets for the sale of Ukrainian goods. With these bills, we open the way for Ukrainian producers to Europe! The economic impact is more than 700 million euros a year! If we don't support this, then we don't need to shed crocodile tears about the state of the Ukrainian economy. You don't have to lie! Go to the buffet and eat your fucking fat! All of it! Because we're not going anywhere else!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! An expert in the agrarian sector, a person who worked for the APC all his life, Katerina Vaschuk. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! I address all those present in the room, confirming the very importance of this bill today. The MP's better written, he better takes into account all the needs of the agricultural producer, he allows the inclusion of all those who produce agrarian products into the action of this law, and he decides not only a very important function for our products to go to that market under European standards, but it protects people's health. Because an identified animal is tested at all stages until it is converted into a health condition, vaccination, and so forth. This is the health of our children. Our people and the quality of food in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you. Ivan Kirilenko, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u101	Dear friends, Your Honor Alexander Valentinovich, please urge the House to vote on the MP's bill. This is essential for our agro-industry complex, so that we can actually sell our products, quality products, Ukrainian products safely both in the internal market and in the external market. Alexander Valentine's Day, there is one thing few speak for, but it must be said for. The problem is that every yard has a veterinarian, a national veterinarian, and people need to be reassured that identification will take place at the expense of the state, that is, it is a state policy, as in any country of the world that is interested in healthy food, for the health of its nation. I'm asking you, we need this law very badly, you put the MPs back on the vote, and we need to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, give the Minister of the APC one minute and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation where government MPs practically regulate these issues in the same way. I wanted to emphasize once again, turn to the entire Chamber of Deputies, to all the factions and factions of Fatherland, to the factions of the Party of Regions, and to the groups that worked at the Committee of Agricultural Policy. In this case, authorship is secondary to the bill that will allow our inspectors to work with the European Union during July and August. This is the positive signal that Ukraine gives after the signing of the Association Agreement. Please support this bill, redraft it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, our agricultural producers need to go to European markets, let's help them. Dear colleagues, this is the power of our agrarian complex, this is the power of our country. Please, I'll remind you, this is the first reading, dear colleagues. Corrections, I see, there are suggestions, – we will bring them to another. Please all, right and left, back up. Please, colleagues, this is the last law we are considering today. Please be supportive. Deputies. Let's go back to examining the MP's law. Please support the return. [[12:29:33]] For 224 Dear colleagues. 224. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please. Well, please, please. National MP Razwadowski says he was so worried about the APC that he couldn't vote. Please, colleagues, come back to this question again. Come on, mobilize! Let's demonstrate that Parliament can work! Let's help the agrarian sector, dear fellows. Yes, Oleg Lazko is able to vote. Please. [[12:30:14]] For 234 We can, we can, colleagues. For 234, the decision is made. And right now, in the first reading, we're voting for the basis. Don't get cold! Please, 4987-1, on the ground. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:30:44.]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, colleagues, this is a very exclamation mark that we need today to support the changes to the Budget Code that allow for an increase in local budgets – this is very important for all regions. Please, please, draft the Act amending the Budget Code to include rents for water objects in local budgets. Colleagues, 4076a is a sign of exclamation in this difficult parliamentary week of session. Please, Minister Igor Alexandrovich, do we vote? We're voting, first reading them, aren't we? Overall, the proposal, please the head of the budget committee in support of the regions, proposes in general, on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u105	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs! The budget committee at its meeting on 2 July considered the bill number 4076a. As a result of the review, the committee adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill number 4076a, resulting from the first reading, the adoption of a bill as a basis, and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u106	You can see how Eugene Borisovich speaks well and professionally in Ukrainian. Thank you, Eugene Borisovich, for your professional work. Please, Your Honor, the committee's proposal, we can't help but support it. 4076a, attention: on the basis and in general, please, Your Honor, let's all do it together. [[12:32:40]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, we have also helped our local communities to obtain additional resources for their local budgets. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I have actually considered the entire agenda that was today. Do you want to do some more work? Yes. Now, your honor, there are a few questions, there are a few questions, and they're all important, so listen, you're going to have to say whether or not you have to do it. Please include two microphones: Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich, from the rostrum to avoid wasting time, offers and then I will be able to offer Bachery's Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u107	Dear National Deputies! There is a strong request to support the legislative initiative of 4245a, which allows us to exempt from taxation the income of our citizens who have suffered in the ATO territory and who have received our aid, including support for humanitarian relief. The bill is ready to be considered, the committee is ready to report, we have hope for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u108	Once again, Anatoly Kirilovich, what is it? Keep your eyes on the MPs, or they're a little bit in the mood to work in the districts, I feel that way. Wait, it's still session time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! In Ukraine, unfortunately, the problem of refugees and our citizens is increasing, and they are forced to lose their permanent place of residence. Against this background, there is not yet a meaningful state action, a state aid programme for refugees and people who have lost their place of residence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u110	Anatoly Kirilovich, understood the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u111	As a result, there is an offer to exempt from taxation the income of all citizens who have received charitable assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, once again, we have a charity coming from all the citizens who care about the problems that our country is experiencing today, coming from abroad. This aid comes to the affected citizens, and in fact it is their income. And formally, according to the tax law, these incomes have to be taxed, that is, the aid that refugees receive needs to be taxed. You got it. That's not exactly true. But the impact faction insists that we just include it in the agenda and consider it next sessional week. Colleagues, such a right of faction, you know, ask questions in principle. Please, your honor, 4245 in the agenda, let's include one of the first questions next week. Please vote in the agenda. [[12:35:41]] For 213 Colleagues, 213 in the daytime order, I'm asking this in order of the day, it's not even on the first reading. Please release your hands from unnecessary matters, just vote. Please, Your Honor, support inclusion in the agenda (4245a), colleagues, together, give serious, responsible questions, please. [[12:36:19]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a mandate to consider this issue as one of the first in the next parliamentary week. Please, one minute, Bachelor’s Aunt Dmitry, who cares for the health of the nation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u113	Honourable Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, during military operations, antiterrorist operations, and extraordinary situations, some percent die of a painful shock. Thus, nine national deputies from different factions prepared a bill that would not require military medical units to obtain licences in the use of narcotics and psychotropic drugs to provide medical treatment to the injured. Hear, yes. There's the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And in order not to allow the uncontrolled circulation of these substances, we have proposed that such activities should be allowed to be carried out only by separate decisions of the State Drug Control Service. In this license we propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u114	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u115	identify persons who will be responsible for preventing the diversion of controlled substances into illicit circulation. And that's why there are injuries that can die because there are no drugs that can resist the shock. The Ministry of Defense needs to process this bill, asking for its support without notice. The main scientific and expert office also supports this bill. That's why you're here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is very necessary! As I said, 50 percent die of shock. And the license is just a paper that needs some period of time to get, and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u116	Aunt Dmitrovna, he's included in the agenda, is that the law? Not included? Dear colleagues, can we put it in the order of the day? Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pinzenic. Sit down, Aunt Dmitry. Sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u117	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! I have a request to the chairman. I don't deny the importance of laws, perhaps voting. But you can't put bills on the table that no one has ever seen. We prepare for the day when I sit down on Friday evening to read all the bills. There's a bill coming up that we haven't seen. If these are important bills, place them in the morning, put them in order of the day. But MPs should have the right to become familiar with what they vote for, whatever important laws are. Therefore, I ask you to stop the practice of violating the Rules, allow the MPs to read the documents under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I support the requirement to stop violating the Rules. People's deputies please stop breaking the Rules. And I propose to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day, honourable colleagues, so that the MPs can consider it carefully until we receive it at the next session in the first reading and hopefully in general. Please, Your Honor, put in the order of the day. Please be supportive. [[12:40:35]] For 193 There are no votes. "For" is only 193 deputies. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 44, Party of Regions – 21, Impact – 11, Economic Development – 26, Freedom – 33, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 14 – Peace and Stability – the Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues! I can see that we have a little bit of support. I'm the only one I'd like to ask, colleagues. Here we have the opportunity, when all deputies support, to include it in the agenda so that we can look at it immediately. Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] The MPs say they're not ready, they've had their vote over the week, and they're asking me to move on to the Different. Is that what I'm saying? Dear colleagues, once again, I will not, let's say, force you to vote. Today, I think, in principle, we have done a good job: we have exhausted the entire agenda, and we have supported virtually all the issues that matter to the country. This is a good result of our parliamentary day. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the "Virgin" then, and Ruslan Volodymyrovich will professionally conduct this part of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the hour for the question "Crazy." Please sign up. People’s MP Mironenko is invited to the parliamentary rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're handing it over? The right to speak to the People's Deputy Shipko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u120	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovsk oblast, 35 constituency, Nicopol city, Ordjonikidze-Nicopolsk district. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I have been approached every month by hundreds of people in Orjonikidze, my constituents. People complain about the poor ecological situation in the region and health problems. I am especially convinced that these questions are interconnected. The state of the environment has a direct impact on human health. Orjonikidze is an ecologically uneasy region. Its inhabitants live near the Zaporozhye nuclear station. They need not only attention but real support from the State. In Ukraine the incidence of cancer is terrible, nearly 360 per 100,000 people, and in Ordjonikad it is even worse. I would like to remind you that Ukrainian legislation, in particular the Nuclear Use and Radiation Security Act, gives residents the right to social support in a surveillance zone called 30 kilometres. This is primarily about the AES’s plans for infrastructure projects, for environmental improvements, as well as for residents of such zones, to receive electricity premiums. But the people of Ordjonikidze cannot exercise this right. In fact, in Soviet times, the city has not been included in the observation zone, although its portion of the document reaches 30 kilometers [30 km], but the people of Ordjonikidze receive no compensation. I urge the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take life measures to develop appropriate documents to include the territory of Ordjonikidze in the Dnipropetrovsk region in the observation zone. Please consider my statement as a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u121	The National Deputy Ishchenko is handing over the right to speak to the People's Deputy Dubnevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u122	Mr. Chairman, honourable deputies, Jaroslav Dubnevitch, Faction "BRA", 120 constituency, Lvivščina. The question of the solution to the full supply of armor from our army, I'm not afraid of that word, is beginning to enter into a frost. I'm stressing that it's not just about the units that are in the ATO area, it's about securing the appeal that's about to be restored. Believe me, telling a mother who might give her son of the age to the army that he's not being sent to the front, and so the vest is not needed, a useless thing. And people talk about it. Any protest by our citizens on these issues is another convenient picture for the enemy media. Along with the public activists, I personally carried several armoured vests across the Polish-Ukrainian border last week. As it all seems, the point of the problem is to invite officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, foreign affairs, to come and try. So this week, we passed two laws that simplify the circulation of armor in the middle of the country, but there were two major problems. It is a free purchase of armoured vests, helmets, and other special equipment in Europe, along with the unhindered border with the European Union. The compositions of the Allied States are filled with corresponding products. And the families of the military are willing to pay for them. Only appropriate interstate agreements are needed. So I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Enough with the endless act of bullish skin. It'll solve these questions at last. Let's do it after four months of war. I want to make it clear that every day of delay is an unwarranted risk to the lives and health of our sons with you who, in word and in deed, stand up for our state! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u123	Please, National Deputy Benjuk, hand over his right to speak to National Deputy Furman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u124	Alexei Furman, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! If we don't do the cleansing of the power that we talked about, and we don't approve of the relevant illustrative law, then everything we didn't do doesn't make sense. As long as it is not forbidden to embrace the positions of all officials involved in the persecution of activists, corruption, destruction of Ukrainian statehood, there will be no progress. Lustration will allow everyone to be brought into clean water from former officials who were or were in government positions in Ukraine while serving the criminal regime of Yanukovic. Regrettably, in Winnitzkin, public officials continue to be held in positions of authority by those who have been immersed in various corruption schemes in their ears. When protests begin, they get sick or go to the hospital or hide elsewhere. One such example is the position of Head of the State Executive Service of the Chief Justice in the Winnitsky region of Black Obyay Alexander Yuriovich, who has been in office for more than 8 years. The public has not initiated the release of him once because he is involved in various corrupt schemes for the sale of confiscated property. This official is part of the circle of close ties of the former head of the Department of State Executive Services, Stadnik Hennady Vasilovich. In addition, Chernobyl contributed to the Stadnik and its surroundings, including its son, in the purchase of cars with prestigious stamps at prices far below market prices in the Winnitsk region. Let me give you a few examples. The town of Vinnica, the street of General Arabei 3, a property complex of almost 1,800 square meters is being implemented through a private enterprise called Neware-W.S. It's worth 800,000, and the market price is $800,000. The 2007 Mitsubishi car was implemented through the Ukrespezgroup's TV cost of only 25,000 dollars, the market value of $20,000 and so on. In turn, during the Blackobay Dignity Revolution, the Ukrainian Security Service was responsible for destroying the business of all honest citizens who supported the Ukrainian people's fight against the criminal regime. The executive service in the Vinnitsky region is actually a criminal group run by Chernobyl. And there was information that using past connections, Chernobyl successfully made a deal with the authorities, namely, with the people needed in the ministry to remain in office. Please consider my speech to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The Attorney General's Office for the conduct of a review of the activities of the Head of State Executive Services of Blackobay. The Dignity Revolution is still going on. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u125	Please come to the Parliamentary rostrum of the Pavlovsky People’s Deputy. Please prepare for the Pharion People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u126	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Congratulations, fellow countrymen. And I would like to point out that right now, in society, there is great hope and hope that our President, Peter Prashenko, will do everything he can to free our country as soon as possible from the Gulf Divers and Terrorists. And our heroic military will receive legal security and legal protection. It's because of the introduction of a special legal regime called the state of war. And I would like to remind you that one of the main requirements of the battalions that the President's Administration had recently taken care of was the introduction of martial law. You have to call things your names: there goes the Putin war against Ukraine and it fights professional spies, diversans, and terrorists. That's why it takes a military state to ensure that the military is able to conduct large-scale military operations so that we can use curfews on freed territory and military commanders. In addition, I would like to point out that it remains an urgent, major problem for our country is its international protection. And that gives us an urgent signature, a ratification of the Agreement, in Parliament, with the European Union. That's why I'm asking the President's Administration not to delay. From information from the government, we know that the agreement is technically ready for signature, we ask President Dustenk to make this agreement immediately to the Supreme Council and we in the Supreme Council will support it. Similarly, I would like to point out that we need to be more careful about making constitutional changes, right now, at the time of the war in the country. And the powers currently vested in the President to influence the force bloc, security, and foreign policy are enough to protect Ukraine from external aggression. Similarly, we need to approach the change and representation of the President and the authorities on the ground with caution. There are no usurpers that can be replaced by others. And so on and so on. Therefore, it is necessary to allow MPs to form a temporary commission in Parliament and to work out agreed compromise proposals for the new Constitution in 2004. And the current Constitution gives the president a normal schedule of work, and we don't have to rush here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u127	May I have the floor of the Pharion People's Deputy. Please prepare for the People's Deputy of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u128	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, dear and venerable Ukrainians! I asked the President of Ukraine today to remind him that he was finally due to execute the Supreme Council Order on the award of the title of the heroes of Heaven's 100th. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council did not support my request to the President, so I publicly appeal to the President to assign the title of heroes to our soldiers in November-July times, otherwise it's a terrible deviation from our values. That's the first one. The other one. Our President introduces a strange term into legal space and linguistic space, this strange term he's trying to write into our Constitution, especially in. 143rd article, which states that the Russian language must be given special status. I don't know that in the heads of those people who might call the language of occupation special, but I know otherwise that no legal document contains such a term or even a legal term. This term doesn't work in socio-linguistic space: socio-linguistics is a science that learns the connections of language and society. That is, the absurdity of this term not only because of its sound but because of its fulfillment. In fact, the introduction of this term through the Constitution is nothing more than the destruction of the state status of the Ukrainian language. And as long as he'd been proving to us that Ukrainian language remains national, in fact, introduced in 143rd article, the status of a special Russian, transforms the state status of the Ukrainian language exclusively into a decorative and without any importance for implementation. So it's a brutal manipulation and an unprecedented lie, a problem that for the state is a fundamental one if it wants to be a nation's central, not a globalistic mission. To be honest, I would like to make a brief historical reference to why they are trying to give this language a special status. The help of an average schoolboy does not have much of the Ukrainian politicians. Thus, the help is that it is the means of this so - called special language, because it is a special language that we now want to make, that is the uniquely Ukrainian national language that has been destroyed. And this destruction has been carried out consistently since the 14th century, beginning in 1627, according to King Michael’s decree to burn in the State all copies of the teaching Gospel of Cyril published in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u129	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u130	Because it was this teacher’s Gospel that contained the first elements of a living spoken Ukrainian language. Then, in 1677, Patriarch Moscow, Yoakim, ordered the Ukrainian books to remove these leaves that differ from the books of Moscow. Then, in 1689, the Moscow Synod banned Kiev-Pecher Lavra from printing the first volume of the famous Four Mines by Dmitri Rostowski. Because they were also with elements of a lively spoken Ukrainian language. And then, if we go back to the 13th century, not only did the church work here, but the state in the person of King Peter I, apparently establishing a special status for the Russian language, are based on special forms of destruction because of the Russian language. It's not just the destruction of the Ukrainian state -- it's the destruction of the Ukrainian nation, and the Council will never support this nonsense. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u131	People’s deputy Popescu is invited to attend. To prepare for the People's Deputy, Pankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Popescu, Cherniewec region. Dear colleagues! During my stay in the Cherniewec region, I am constantly approached by villagers: Petrichenko, Prosika, Suchevena, Bologna of the Deep Area and Villages: Hražna Petrovci, Lower Petrovci, Aršica*, Budenec - The Watchtower Region, through which the central road connects the villages of the two districts with the centre and the area. And which in the villages of Suchevena, Kuka and Upper and Lower Petrovci is in poor condition, precisely the need to repair this area of the road, I have sent a call to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine to take the necessary measures in view of the fact that there are large numbers of people living in these settlements, this is a densely populated area of the Chernovets region, and there are almost 20,000 citizens living there, and there is an urgent need for repairing the only central road that connects them to one another and to the district centers, as in some places it is no longer possible to travel. In addition, residents of the village of Jordonest of the Głbotsky region are concerned about the halting of the construction of the local school. My parents. Students, teachers, and the community in the village are concerned about the situation that a built - in object without shelter may lose its ability if it is not accepted in time. On this point last week, I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the possibility of continuing to finance the construction project, although we understand that the situation is very difficult economically. But I want to remind you that this object was also approved by the socio-economic development programme 2012-2014. If we do not take the necessary measures, the lost ones will be invested in large budget resources, and the children of this village will continue to learn from the adapted emergency facilities of the old school, which was built back in Austrian times, which is over 100 years old. The second moment that I wanted to pay attention to, I'm going to ask you to do this -- my statement on this question as a parliamentary request. He also wanted to point out the need to preserve existing education in the languages of the national minorities in Cherniewsky, Zakarpatsk, especially in Romanian, so that children could learn Ukrainian. But at the same time, keep your ethnic identity. Thank you for your attention. Live.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u133	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the People's Deputy of Pankevitch. Please be prepared by the People's Deputy Opanaszczenko. Pankevitch is handing over the right to speak to the national deputy Sekh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u134	Dear Society, now to the small town of Brody, where the bodies of three dead helicopters were brought to Lviv, Andrew Bilkina, Ruslan Mazunov, Dmitri Shinguru. On June 24, they were hit by a helicopter under the so - called truce over Karachun Mountain. We buried the bodies of five helicopters in the A-2595 military area in Brodas a month ago. A total of 16 children became orphaned. In all, in Lviv, today during the ATO of 20 military personnel, during the Dignity Revolution of 20 people, 20 of our heroes. The district government contacted the President in announcing the name Hero of Ukraine. When they said good - bye to the dead, they all came out. Out came those children who were already able to walk, and out came those older ones who could still walk. There's no greater patriotic upbringing when every child on a leaf wrote that "heroes don't die." What a surprise it was to me when we saw the answer to the appeal of the administration that our true heroes had been awarded the Order, the Order of the Third Grad. I don't mind the order, but what do you have to do in the state of Ukraine to be a hero? It turns out that he was going to be killed in that state, he was going to carry out heavy military tasks, he was going to go away, as was the case with our boatman, who is from Slavian and who is now retired, and he left the quiet town of Brody above the Slavonian to protect the state of Ukraine, free and consummate. So I turn to the generals, to those who sit in quiet and quiet offices: don't be sorry! I'm talking to the President: yes, today poor, but proud and worthy, the state of Ukraine has so many heroes, and we should be proud of that. We can't regret the name Hero of Ukraine for those people who gave their lives -- the most expensive thing there is -- for the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u135	The national deputy Opanaschenko hands over the right to speak to the national deputy Gruszewski. Please be prepared by the people’s representative of Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u136	The Honorable Society of Ukraine! It was only a month after the election of the President of Ukraine, but it was clear to everyone that the words and deeds of power clearly did not match each other. People voted for peace, and there is no peace. There's a civil war coming. Ukrainian citizens are killed, children. Houses are being destroyed. The whole region's economy is being destroyed. The president announced a plan to restore peace in the East, the first step of which should be the truce. the armistice of the sides and the ceasefire of the fire. But these points have, unfortunately, remained to be said. And it is clear to all that not only the separatists, the Commander - in - command, did not even obey their own army. He and other armed forces disobeyed him. It cannot be denied that the authorities do not control the existence of illegal weapons formations in Ukraine but, in fact, private armies that are financed by some oligarchs. And it would be good if these armies and oligarchs supported the President, but no, they're trying to work against him. There is a need to control these formations. The law must be equal for all. We have a new minister of defense, and he must demonstrate his effectiveness by placing all private armies under the control of the state. In Ukraine, there must be only a state army and state law enforcement agencies. And we need to request a report on the work of the Ministry of Defense and a new minister within a month. We need open-ended control of what's going on, or we're going to have serious doubts as responsible advocates that the President can control the force and the country. The president has to prove that he's on his own in making decisions. Ukraine must become a strong democratic state in which citizens must feel free and secure. They should feel secure not only for those who uphold authority but also for those who have a different opinion. We, as deputies, should be aware of our responsibility to the country and to the electorate, but we must see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u137	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u138	An honest, principled president. Petra Alexiyovich has the opportunity to prove that he will lead the entire country, that he is the elected president, but time is running out. Ukraine needs peace and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u139	The people’s deputy Yavorowski is invited to attend. Please be prepared by the national deputy Kattelak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u140	(do not hear)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u141	I didn't mean for you to hear the Light Voice. About the previous speaker. Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, I wanted to bring in two petitions today to President Dusty. They were broken, and that's understandable. We have a parliament where they're sitting right now, and there are some gray-headed bastards sitting in this minute, who literally didn't come out of TV screens just a few months ago celebrating Yanukovich, a party of regions, and it was scary even to turn the electric spike on, because that's where they'd be talking, and now they're sitting here, they'll be driving again. Because you want them to vote for these things. I have imported some very common and simple things: in which country, society, there may be one where the person who legally opposed the Ukrainian State, for unifying the Crimea, the occupation of Crimea, remains not only the national deputy of Ukraine to this day, for they have not gathered votes, but to this day is the hero of Ukraine! Here Irina Pharion was talking about these 100 boys from the Celestial 100s need to be awarded the title of heroes. While Dutch is a hero, I wouldn't do that. We must banish him from the Heros of Ukraine with great shame! Because, Ruslan, I'm calling this my official public request. And the President's request, take it off, only you have the right. The Turks had no right to do that. And the second thing I asked the President. Let me remind you of this story. Basil Sklar, a brilliant Ukrainian proseic, wrote a novel called The Black Crow. For a long time, the works of Ukrainian literature had no such circulation. He was awarded the Shevchenk Prize. And this man dared to say, "I will not take this award from Yanukovitch's hands until the Tobacco is sitting in his office in the Ministry of Education." The flower has already consecrated this office after the Tobacco. And today the time has come when Vasileva Schlare must officially hand over the documents that he is, because he was awarded the prize by a committee, by secret ballot he became, the formality remained simple! Take the diploma and the money that is added to the prize. And Basil then gave it up! It makes people feel that something is changing in the country! In a country where Dutch is still walking in heroes, and when he heard what I'm saying, he just escaped from the hall. Because I was talking about him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u142	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kotelak? Please prepare for the People's Deputy of Tegnibokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u143	Lydia Kotelak, 123th constituency, Fatherland faction. Dear National Deputies! This is the second month since the Prime Minister's concern about stabilizing drug prices, our pensioners as well as citizens suffering from chronic illness expect that, at the national level, different forms of property will eventually be set to limit the level of drug prices. Because in recent years the situation in the pharmaceutical market has been so uncoordinated that in one town, where 5 to 10 pharmacies of price and the same drugs vary from 10 to 50 bracelets. As an example, I can call the Pre-Industrial Region of Lviv, whose inhabitants have asked me to report on the level of government structures the requirement to influence the arbitrary increase in prices and not only by private individuals but also by municipal pharmacies. The government's reference pricing project is designed to lower the cost of patients' medicines. Its effectiveness depends both on the timely calculation of the state’s business subjects and on the exercise of full control of the relevant structures — the State Price Control Inspectorate and the Antimonopoly Committee for the Cessation of Speculation in the Medical Drug Market. Local self - government authorities also have a role to play. Because an unprotected category of citizens, pensioners, chronically ill persons, cannot provide their social protection without the support of their constituents at the local level. As Ukraine’s national deputy, I say that it is necessary to speed up the process of reference pricing at the cost of medicines, taking as an example the neighbouring Polish state, where drugs are much cheaper. Therefore, in a country where the lowest wages and the lowest pensions among European countries should not be the highest prices for medicines. The urgent and comprehensive solution to this problem must also occur because we are a country that eliminates the consequences of the Chernobyl AES. Convincedly, the Ministry of Health is stepping up its efforts to implement all necessary measures to stabilize drug prices in pharmacies, both private and municipal, thus enabling our citizens to avoid the dilemma of choosing the cost of essential medicines or foodstuffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u144	May I have the floor of the People's Deputies of Tajnibok. Prepare the National Deputy for Lashkov. The National MP hands over the right to speak to the National MP, Martzinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u145	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. As of July 1, this year, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to raise tariffs in the area of utilities and the energy sector. This is about setting up tariffs for water and heat companies for services that cover the costs of their production, transportation and supply to end consumers. This means that, on average, the Ukrainians will pay more than 40 percent in July for heating and hot water, 50 percent for cold water and water supply. Electricity tariffs increased by 10 to 40 percent, depending on the quantity of consumption. It is worth noting that the government is saying that it will take maximum action on socially vulnerable populations, as in the State, a subsidy compensation mechanism, but it does not, unfortunately, use popularity. According to the State, the number of families receiving subsidies in January-May decreased by almost 10 percent compared to the same period last year. The reasons are two: the lack of funds in the public budget and the main one for consumers is the extremely complex bureaucratic procedure for shaping them. At the same time, the government has developed another compensation mechanism for consumers of the services of the HKG, which should start working in July, the order of accounting, and the settlement of compensations, which is fixed by the Cabinet Regulation No. 83. This document was promised to be further developed and simplified, but no initiatives in this direction, unfortunately, have been made. Therefore, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" requires the government to adopt and simplify the mechanism for receiving subsidies to Ukrainians in order to simplify the mechanism for receiving these aids. Thus, Ukrainians will have to adjust to the new value of utilities. At the same time, it can be noted that many Ukrainians will simply pay for community services that increase social tensions in society. I wanted to remind myself that most of these businesses today belong to oligarchs, monopolies who today do not provide quality services. Thus, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that residents today also have the right to obtain individual heating permits. And with such a parliamentary request, we, together with the head of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Oleg Pullibok, appealed to the government to abolish Cabinet Order No. 630 and the order of disconnection of individual housing units from centralized heating networks. Unfortunately, we still have no answers. Today, Ukrainians demand that they allow for individual heating and reduce the pressure on housing services tariffs. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u146	People’s MP Lazko is invited to attend. Please be prepared by the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The fourth day is the antiterrorist operation after the so - called truce was terminated. From the outset, I argued and insisted that the President’s decision to declare a truce in a unilateral manner was wrong. The armistice brought in dozens of killed soldiers, peaceful Ukrainian citizens, allowing terrorists to group forces, build them up, acquire equipment, and armament from Russia. The course of an anti-terror operation in four operations confirms the President's decision to restore this anti-terror operation, the enemy runs, the enemy forms a weapon, the enemy acknowledges his defeat. The leader of the terrorists in Slavensk – Strelkov today said that the so - called Novorosia would fall soon. That was the way we had to talk to the terrorists from the beginning, as soon as they took up arms, as soon as they started calling for the division of the country, for the introduction of foreign troops into Ukraine, we had to pee, not negotiate something, negotiations and everything else, and everything else. With the terrorists, no negotiations, with them, one bullet in the forehead and in the landing as a dog to lie down, he wanted such a death of a dog — let anyone against Ukraine receive it, anyone carrying blood, tears, grief. The course of an anti-terror operation confirms that there's nothing you can do with terrorists, all the more, they're six, they're Russian puppets. And that's why we're going to make a deal with Russia, but after we kick terrorists out of Ukrainian land, when we become strong and have a strong right to negotiate with Russia, we're going to make a few demands: liberate Crimea, cover the border, and in general, get our hands off the Ukrainian land. And when we were offered, including by international partners, to sit at the negotiating table, which is weak, we had an early losing position. In particular, I would like to say about the position of international partners. They do. Both in Italy and in Germany and in Austria, the president of which President Putin of the Aggressor Country has accepted, they have to understand that if we are not in Ukraine today, he will go on, he will go on, he will go on, he is the Baltic, he is Georgia, he is Moldova, he is the countries of the former camp, and he will go on to the new Berlin Wall. And those who today want to make a deal with Putin and do business with him, I mean European partners, they have to understand that they're risking a war on their land, just like Putin brought this war to Ukrainian land. That is why I urge the Ukrainian authorities not to give a command to stop an anti-terrorist operation! Whoever tries to restore the truce now, to stop our fighters from going to victory, will be the most serious crime against Ukraine, a betrayal of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u148	I would like to introduce you to the speech of the People's Deputy Momot. Please be prepared for the national MP Revenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u149	Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, voters! Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Last week I worked in my district, among other things, I visited a district center to work with immigrants from Crimea and East. Frankly, I was shocked. Every day 100 - 150 people come to the center, mostly women, children, older people. Everyone needs to be fed, arranged for the night, medically, psychologically. Workers and volunteers only have one or two hours to find a place to live, to collect the necessary things, to help find a job. Statistics in the Dnipropetrov region are like that. On July 1, the city center registered 920 families from the East and 387 families from the Crimea. It's about 4,000 people, and every day it gets more and more. These centers work in 13 cities in the Dnipropetrov region. And without exception, it is held on the shoulders of volunteers, with the support of the local population, our countrymen. Food, clothing, furniture, dishes, bed linen, hygiene products — all of which are provided by people. I am sure that this is the case in other cities of Ukraine, where people from East and Crimea are seeking refuge. We should thank our fellow countrymen for their indifference, but I find it unfair and irresponsible to put such pressure on citizens alone. It is necessary to develop State aid mechanisms for coordinating groups and centres that have already been established on the basis of public organizations within a short period of time. The most pressing problem is the availability of accommodations for the reception and resettlement of people. I believe that along with the local authorities, a list of facilities that can be repaired and dedicated to the placement of displaced persons should be worked out. The Minister’s office is scheduled to allocate funding in a short time, allowing the number of places to accommodate displaced persons to be increased according to the list. Costs should be allocated by simplified procedure, without unnecessary bureaucracy. Funding and assistance to the focal points will help avoid the problems of uncontrolled flows of people, resulting in an outbreak of crime, conflict, homelessness. In his address to the people, the President said the simple but very right thing: all wars are coming to an end, and this war will end as well. We need to look to the future, a peaceful future, to create conditions for people to get on their feet, to feel that the state has something for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u150	May I have the floor of the people's representative of Revenka. Please prepare for the People's Deputy Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u151	Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Anatoly Revenko, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. More than half a century ago Hitler's Reichs minister of education and propaganda, Joseph Hebbels, said two famous phrases. One: "Give me the media, and I will make every nation a herd of pigs." And the second is, "The sin, repeated a thousand times, becomes the truth." And today all of us have witnessed how these postulates were given a second breath thanks to the efforts of our northern neighbor. What, though, about propaganda, can be explained that the Russians have supported the seductive medieval politics of their power? Our northern neighbors have been fed needlessly for many years, and therefore those who do not have access to alternative sources of information have stopped distinguishing the truth from a practical alternative reality that is often distorted and created specifically for television and has nothing to do with reality. We must not allow you to "make a flock of pigs" out of Ukrainian citizens. We haven't been able to turn off the most isolated Russian channels in cable networks, as others did in their place, the same "objective and true" (in paws). I was repeatedly approached by the citizens of Kirovgrad to stop broadcasting TV center, which operator No 1 of cable television in Kirovograd included "Willa Cable" in the most popular package "Ukraine and the World". There are five news outlets on the channel every day. I'm going to quote just a few quotes from the news: "The situation in Ukraine is nothing but ethnic cleansing." Or is this a forecast: "The winter will not be easy. Stocks of gas attached to Ukrainian storage facilities will be sufficient until October at the most. Kiev will traditionally steal blue fuel from the export pipe." Also on the channel several times a week, there are publicist programs called the Protection Line, the Russian Question. The theme of the program: "Move Maidan", "You Can't Run Away" is about hundreds of thousands of refugees from Ukraine to Russia and so on. These programs are the representatives of the DNR, the LNR and other separatist forces. And this cable channel is broadcast almost all over Ukraine. I've already made this request to the Ukrainian National Television and Radio Federation, requiring immediate action to stop its broadcast, because this is a real information war that sometimes has more consequences than war. I recently heard on TV a young man from Donbas who asked why he, unlike many of his fellow countrymen, believed in Ukrainian authority, replied simply, "I am a very busy man. I never watch TV. So I am guided by basic logic, and I decide for myself how to act. And those who watch TV went to separatists." So, dear friends, from this high rostrum, I would like to urge all the competent authorities of the State to make an effort to put an immediate end to our people's zombies. I think most of my fellow MPs understand the problems and support any Nacrada action that we've updated today and the PNBO on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u152	The Chechetov National Deputy is invited to attend. Please prepare for the People's Deputy Golovkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u153	Dear Ruslan Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues! Respectable voters! Today and in the western part of Ukraine, where they speak sincere Ukrainian and in the eastern part where they speak Russian, there is a common understanding that we are all a large national Ukrainian family. There is another understanding among the common people of the West and the East that the more friendly our national Ukrainian family will be, the sooner we will solve the problems we face. The sooner we build a Ukraine that's happy for everyone. Today, there is a strict demand for the common people of the West and the East, to the politicians, to bring back what is shamelessly taken from the people. Bring peace, tranquillity, harmony and stability back to our homeland. Because these are the fundamental values that are at the heart of the country's success, the basis of dynamic economic growth, as a basis for improving the social standards of people's lives. That's what I've been talking about. From 1 count, public services have increased dramatically, drug prices have increased, social standards, wages, pensions have been frozen. Gas prices are rising. By the end of the year, GDP is projected to fall by 5 per cent and inflation by 20 per cent. It's an optimistic forecast. But if there is no peace, there can be no other war. They're talking about elections today. Again, if elections are not for the benefit of individual political forces and for the benefit of individual politicians, but for the benefit of the State and the people, a few serious steps must be taken before the elections. The first is to get the world back. In the context of hostilities in the East, elections cannot be held, as it is because voters will not be able to delegate their representatives to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this could lead to the loss of the East of Ukraine. It may be necessary to change the Constitution and actually decentralize power, because the changes in the Constitution, the decentralization of power, are a guarantee of peace in the country. It may be necessary to make it legitimate for the CWC to choose a new composition, and the mandate of individual members has expired. And we need the Electoral Act, so far there are four versions, four preferences for individual people's deputies. But only one version has been formalized into law under a mixed system, but it has not yet found support. Therefore, in my view, today, all power and policies of Ukraine must focus on the main issue: diplomatically, on the basis of consultations and negotiations. Because it is this road that leads to peace in peace. And if anyone thinks it's just Kalashnikov's rifles and only by force.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u154	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u155	Just a minute. And if anyone thinks that only with Kalashnikov's rifles, only with the power of weapons can we bring back the world, peacefully to our homeland, it is a very profound mistake and profound error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u156	Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Golovka. Please prepare for the People's Deputy Odarchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u157	Good afternoon! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable MPs, distinguished viewers, who are watching us now! I would like to highlight two of the key problems that our population faces, primarily in rural areas. Because if I didn't come as a national MP to meet with the voters, there's one key issue, and that's the problem with low purchase prices for milk. Properly, peasants are indignant because for many peasants, the cow itself is the only nurse. A family that has no pension, no other income, no opportunities. families have several cows, but this meager purchase price for milk, which today can be as much as 1.50, 1.80, up to 2 rubles, is practically an abuse, because a bottle of water costs several times more than people need to work hard, to work near this cow, and ultimately to give it away for nothing. Accordingly, we have been raising these questions for more than a year, standing up for peasants and fighting against this problem, and at the same time, we have come to demand a government order of 2,20, which, unfortunately, is not being implemented by the end of the day, about the minimum purchase price for milk. But that's why we passed this decision with National Deputy Igor Sabi. Before amending certain legislation on government regulation of the purchase price for milk. Of course, from this bill, we are proposing a number of initiatives, namely, to raise the purchase price for milk, which would be for non-harvested milk of the second species at least 4 bracelets, there for 1 species – 4.25, there for the higher species – 4.50 and to milk of the second species – 5 bracelets. Of course, there's a point to this bill, especially in milk processors, that is, those concerts that are now actually monopolies in milk processing, milk factories that are not. There's a note by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics. We're willing to take all these proposals into account and work together on a perfect draft, but today we have to do everything we can to save the village. Because a dying village is a disaster for Ukraine. Because people today are mass surrendering into cattle slaughter, they're not comfortable keeping this cow-fowl, because they're hard at work, and they don't have any result. So we have to make every effort to have this bill come to take into account all the comments and corrections that we have to make to protect the Ukrainian village and save the Ukrainian village and help the peasants. And I would also like to point out that I have prepared a parliamentary request for the protection of cultural workers, librarians who, unfortunately, are also under pressure today. Because Kabminu’s decree (No. 8889) of February 25 was passed, cutting off all their allowances and cutting off their wages. And because they had almost 50 percent, they don't add up to a maximum of 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u158	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u159	This is particularly true of my region, this is about our Ternopil area, where I met with library staff, who are really librarians, who are complaining about the situation that they're working for no price, for a loser, and, if we're going to destroy libraries in the villages, we're really going to turn our nation, our children, our people not into an enlightened, into a herd that will be easy to manage. And we need to do everything we can to have a cultural, enlightened nation, so that we can be proud of our children in the future, and our children can have good governance over this future state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u160	People’s deputies, Odarchenko, are invited to the parliamentary rostrum. None. People's deputy Fitchuk, please. Prepare the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u161	Alexander Fitchuk, Fatherland, 202 County. It's a noise. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, all of us remember that literally recently, from this rostrum, words such that the government would form according to certain principles and, in particular, the position of minister of income at that time, it must be a person who has passed and has a school abroad and a manager and a corresponding education. I don't understand who we've put in office today is the Deputy Minister of Revenue, which is what we call today, Billows, if I can't come to his office for two months now. I don't understand the situation where I also wanted to offer some services because I worked practically all the time in the Tax Office and wanted to know the concept of developing the Tax Service for the future. And I also wanted to offer all my services. In particular, I find it difficult to understand today’s assignments that are conducted in the form of commotion, marriage, or learning, and associates. In particular, I would like to make it clear that the area assigned to Chernobyl as head of the Siniczak Tax Service did not work any day in the Tax Service, did not participate in the fight against the previous authorities, but was familiar with today’s head of the Tax Service. As a result of the assignment, there was a major breach, although he did not close his business activity and the Tax Service had to check it out, do business checks, and be appointed to the office of head. What should be the objectivity of this entrepreneurial activity? Of course, I turned to my colleagues, the Attorney General's Office, to have a check. And of course, there's corruption. And those who have appointed a leader in the Chernivites should be called to account. I'm calling on the government to facilitate my meeting with Billous Igor Olegovich. I appeal to the Attorney General's Office to ensure that the audit is thorough and that those who have appointed, accordingly, have a protocol, have been brought to justice and brought to justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u162	People’s deputy Kaplan is invited to the Chamber of Parliament. Please be prepared by the People's Deputy, Mr. Mochakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u163	Honourable Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Polish voters! Ukraine is now experiencing extremely difficult times. And in these difficult times, the Ukrainian people must be the only one. The only and powerful fist we have to strike at those who want to destroy the Ukrainian state, and certainly only decisive action and decisive action will lead our country to victory. I welcome the words of the newly elected Defence Minister that we will have our own victory parade and must certainly be where it is supposed to be - on the original Ukrainian land in Sevastopol. At the same time, we need to understand clearly that the main challenge in Ukrainian politics and the latest survival of the mobist Yanukovic, the political pyramid he built to rob and destroy the Ukrainian people, is part of the Ukrainian Parliament. It needs serious, parliament needs serious castration from a party of communists in this parliament. We have to erase this abomination forever from our country's history. And that's why I registered the changes to the Rules that allow the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take away the Ukrainian people and the Parliament of this in the clutches of "happiness," which is called the "faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine". At the same time, the Democratic Camp in Parliament -- the coalition has succeeded in abolishing parliamentary vacations, and thank God that we will, I am convinced, work productively for the future of Ukraine when our soldiers in the East, when they choose independence for our country, when the workers and peasants of the whole country have no summer vacations, and they get up at 4 in the morning, a woman will suckle a cow, and then come back from the council or college late at 9 or 10 in the evening, then taking the second change in the household at home. I would like to say the same thing that happened at last, we were able, together with our colleagues, to collect the necessary 150 signatures in order to make changes to the Constitution and for five walks to deprive our deputies of their mandate. I want to personally thank the factions of Freedom, which in almost an hour have given us all the necessary signatures. To thank our colleagues at Fatherland, of course, our colleagues and our brothers at Strike, we'll do everything we can to make this work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u164	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u165	This change to the Constitution opened the new face of Parliament, giving the necessary discipline to make key decisions. And lastly, there are individual MPs in Parliament, and there are going to be new ones, and there are new stars, like one of the owners of almost all the gas fields in the Poltava region, stealing them from ordinary people and trying to teach parliament and people how to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u166	Rudzkowski's last name. [[Applause]] And I want to tell him with the words of the great countryman Gregory Savovich Skovorody: don't teach the apple apple to give birth, you better get rid of the pigs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u167	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Mr. Mochkov? Please prepare for National Deputy Bondareva.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u168	Alexander Motchov, Vitaly Klitchak Faction. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues and Citizens of Ukraine! The stormy events of recent months have vividly illustrated the problems of our nation that have not been solved in years. Therefore, no part of our life or the national economy can be named, in which the present problems, at least indirectly, did not threaten our nation’s national security. I would like to remind you that one of the main functions of the State is defence, and then the presence of a powerful and fighting army in the State is the guarantee of the existence of the State itself as a subject of international politics. Recent developments have strongly demonstrated the need to reform the Ukrainian Armed Forces, to create a quality new system of military governance, to change development priorities, in line with global trends, and to take into account the experience of the most developed countries in the world. Along with solving the current problems of the Ukrainian Army, the acquisition of helmets, armor, weapons, ammunition, fuel, and so on, the formation of basic foundations for the creation of a modern army is an urgent task. The modern - day war that our nation has experienced is vast. The line of collision passes primarily in the social consciousness and in the head of every citizen of our nation. The use of traditional forces and tools in today’s conditions is increasingly subject to auxiliary functions. The potential of the new type should be based on special task forces, information counter-terrorism and psychological operations, cyber-military, intelligence and management. In order to conduct reconnaissance, observation, to provide fire-injury targets, and to determine the impact results of various operations and combat operations, units have been created that are equipped with unguarded robotic complexes, drones, and so on. In Ukraine, the development and practical implementation of the technology of drones is carried out by the employees of the Žitomir Military Institute of S.P.Korlov. During this time, a complex of operational management and its mobile components, technical intelligence systems, including an unguarded robotic complex with an unmanned aircraft of domestic production, has been successfully used by the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the course of an anti-terrorist operation. The powerful scientific and manufacturing potential of the state is a powerful proof that we are capable of producing high-tech and high-tech weapons without outside aid, and that Ukrainian scientists are capable of solving the most complex technical tasks. I'm sure it's just.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u169	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u170	Convinced that only the development of its own scientific sphere and the stake on the country’s talent for youth will strengthen the Ukrainian state and, as a result, the Ukrainian army and defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u171	May I have the floor of the Bondar People's Deputy. Prepare the Black People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u172	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Of course, Ukraine is now going through the most difficult stage of its life and we see that we are not in a great hurry to help the European Union and the United States, they are doing what they can, but openly fighting for the new, new state of Ukraine no one in the world wants. Ready to help financially, but military action, and so on, is our direct, self-sustaining problem that we have to solve. But in order to become a powerful state, you have to decide not only about the army, but you have to think about how to create a strong economy and essentially change the Soviet old state and economic governance system to a new, modern one that will succeed just like the Georgian script or the South Korean one. What are we talking about? The Group "Sovereign European Ukraine" is talking about what needs to be done now, and we're talking to the government, literally in a month or two, to prepare a powerful package of economic reforms and governance by the state, which Parliament should vote in the fall to actually start changing the country and making it rich. When Ukraine becomes a rich, prosperous country, it will be counted when we create an extremely free liberal economy, Ukraine will be successful. When we discover Ukraine's transit potential, economic, cultural, this Ukraine will become extremely rich. What do we require? We demand that, at the same time as the Constitution be introduced into Parliament and in the fall, we vote on amendments to the Tax Code, reduce the number of taxes to 5-7 and simplify the tax administration system. Make changes to the budget code, transfer real budget authority to places so that at least 60 percent of taxes remain in local budgets and then, in fact, every region, every area, every city, region, village, begin to develop and have a copy. We demand to transfer regulatory functions and reduce the number of licenses, permits that exist and exist in Ukraine, at least seven times, and most of them will be transferred to areas -- the area, the area to make decisions about the use, water use and other mechanisms that are in force in Ukraine today, and for which we have to go to Kiev to get every paper for any kind of entrepreneurial activity. We are demanding a reform of the IMF, which has demonstrated its effectiveness in the example of Georgia, and this scenario needs to be worked out. We asked Jaremi when he was Deputy Prime Minister. We have been promised that within two years, an IMF reform bill will be introduced and this bill will have to be considered and voted on in the fall. We're demanding reform of the Ministry of Justice and the justice system in order to make a Georgian scenario when any paper in Ukraine, any document, any citizen can get it in 5, 10, 15 minutes tops. This package of reforms will make Ukraine extremely successful, so we expect and appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council, who, along with the leaders of factions and coalitions, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u173	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u174	will be prepared as a day-to-day order, which will allow for a real vote in September-August on the key bloc of legislative economic reforms and governance reforms, and for those reforms to enter into force on 1 January. Only in a year or two will we get a successful country, only this will allow international financial support for a year or two to pass when there is really a failure in the budget, but the reforms will start to work. And in 2-3 years, we're going to see Ukraine change, become rich, rich, successful, and independent. And we will not go out into the world: give us help. And let's talk about what Ukraine is going to be like today's European state. Thank you. May I have the floor of the Black People's Deputy. Please be prepared by the national deputy Glasunov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u175	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Today’s events in the East have at least two dimensions. The first is the natural struggle of Ukrainian military forces against the invaders. And the second, unfortunately not bitterly, is the large-scale hunt on the Ukrainians, the ethnic cleansings that today have unleashed separatists and occupations in their controlled territories. After the sales force handed down lists of patriotic Ukrainians, the leaders and membership of the Ukrainian patriotic organizations and the pro-Ukrainian political forces were in danger. Ukrainian historians, linguists, and writers were in danger. artists, eventually all those who bear the Ukrainian spirit. In fact, the eastern territories of Ukraine, which once experienced a terrible famine, are now experiencing the second terrible moment of genocide. Those people who are now forced to flee eastern Ukraine say terrible things. Turns out they're on the phone, they're being threatened. Then, if they do not come to the precincts themselves, the fighters come to them at night. They're coming, they're taking it, they're throwing it in the basement. There are terrible conditions in the basements. It is rare for a person to have a jacket to throw it on the floor, usually in cold cold weather. Therefore, those who are now in the basements of administrative buildings that are hostages are, if they are not injured or beaten, necessarily sick, they have pneumonia. And if the Lord helps them to get out alive and survive, then they will have to deal with the survivors for a very long time. Respectable Society! There is also a very large business on the part of those captive Ukrainians, because terrorists and separatists force relatives to buy their families for large sums of money. In many armies of the world, especially in the American army, Israel’s first rule is the release of prisoners, the release of hostages. So first, there's the rescue, the rescue, and then there's the rest. Today, we have a new military leadership and perhaps a major strategic task, or one of the strategic most important tasks, is the release of these people, the rescue of those who find themselves in hostages today. We need to know how tomorrow they're going to be released, tomorrow they're going to be saved, because that's the best thing, and we need to save those people -- people who are carrying the Ukrainian spirit on Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u176	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u177	which they now experience in captivity for them probably reigns in a year. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u178	Is there a national member of Glazunov? None. People's MP Goncharov. None. The national MP, Pharyon, gives his speech to the national deputy Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u179	Oleg Bondarczuk, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honourable voters, honourable national deputies, yesterday in this session hall, discussed the inclusion in order of a daily draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine. Understanding the demands of Majdan as well as civil society for changes in the country, including illustrations of law enforcement authorities, the judicial system of power and authority in general, the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom understands the need for changes to the Constitution. It should be noted, however, that the proposed changes that were sent to us a week before the project was introduced to Parliament do not contain the requirements that people demanded in Maidan. We have proposed our draft amendments, which we have sent to the President, according to our Ukrainian protection programme, as well as the draft Constitution of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. These are the demands that the people the country demands: this is a reduction of the MP's corps to 300 deputies, this is the lifting of the MP's immunity, the touching of the President, as well as of the judiciary, this is a system of elections for a proportional system with open lists. All these proposals were sent to us by the President's Administration, but none of our proposals were taken into account. Talking about the proposed decentralization, we agree that we need to make changes. And the statement made by the leader of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association was that we are preparing an alternative bill to amend the Constitution. And we've already created a working group, and we've started working on it. Together with the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, we will propose this bill as an alternative, we will collect signatures. I think in two weeks he will be brought to Parliament. With regard to the Presidential Bill, I would like to make points very briefly. These are four chapters: the mandate of the Supreme Council, the mandate of the President, the Prosecutor's Office, and the decentralization. As far as the DA's office is concerned. We will normally support the position that the Public Prosecutor's Office should be deprived of general oversight. Decentralization should be carried out, but we do not explicitly support article 143, where Russian is given some special status that is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. The President's mandate is increasing with the President's project, and the powers of the Supreme Council are narrowed down. I don't think we should be in charge of the President's mandate and the mandate of the Supreme Council right now, but we should be focusing exclusively on decentralization without affecting the status of the Ukrainian state language. Because Article 10 defines it as the only national. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u180	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Furman. Thank you for letting me know on time.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u181	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At a time when our whole country is in pain and with hope of seeing events in the east and experiencing our military, anti - Ukrainian elements are activated in places. Especially in Volina. Once again, it is clear that only a illustration can cleanse the country of people who do not serve the people, and while they are in high positions of office, they are doing their own wealth, just as the Yanukovich gang did. In particular, in Ukraine’s largest coal industry, Mine 10 in Novovolinsk, there are things that are incompatible with the achievements of the Dignity Revolution. These robberies are headed by the director of the Solop Mine, Peter Alexiyovich. The theft of state funds, the violation of labour legislation, drunkenness, and abuse of office are far from a complete list of abuses by Peter Solop. Considering that Solop was appointed director of the mine back in 2011, during the time of the Minister of Energy of Stavitsky, with practically unlimited material resources in his hands, he is still operating in the schedules of Janukovic's time. In addition, the liberating of unfavorable people by false facts is being done: The release of people who speak Ukrainian is being pressured by Ukrainian sentiments. Instead, underground workers go to and store monuments with Communists ’ heroes. According to the director, it was Solop's merit that the former contractor for the Lugansk-Schachtstro did not get the money for the amount of work done, and the employees accordingly did not get the salary for four months in 2012. To whom the funds for the work done and written down material values remain unknown. On my parliamentary request, announced last September, there was no adequate response and response from law enforcement agencies. It can be noted that the construction of mine number 10 of Novavolinska turned into the family order of Solop. All the facts listed were presented in my parliamentary pleadings and inquiries and to today’s Energy Minister and have come up with an answer. Looks like the minister's given the assignment to consider my request.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u182	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u183	gave me the commission to consider my request to an ordinary bureaucrat, who copied the answers that Janukovič Stavitsky gave me. Dear Society, I ask Minister Solda to reconsider my request and to contribute to the unbiased and full investigation of Peter Solop’s occupation. Because as long as we don't have the law on illustrations that "Freedom" insists on, we have to fight these frames in other ways. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-04-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, time for your speech is over. Thank you. I want to remind everyone that next week you work in committees, factions and groups. I want you to work on those bills, the legislative initiatives that you have in mind. The tasks your voters are giving you. The next week after that, you'll be working in your constituencies. I invite you to meet our citizens as actively as possible, to prove to them the laws that have already been passed and that you have yet to approve, to talk about the most pressing, pressing issues that concern Ukraine today, particularly the anti-terrorist operation that is going on, to visit those people who need it as socially vulnerable, as families of the people who are protecting our country today, and the next plenary session will take place on Tuesday, July 22, 10:00. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
