ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Traditionally, I announce that today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please sit down. Please turn on the glade system, let's run the registration. [[10:03:21]] There are 302 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Dear colleagues, today we have the opportunity to make statements, to announce MPs as representatives of various parliamentary groups and factions, as well as non-fractional ones. Please sign up for the performances. The word is given to the People's Deputy of Tegnibok, the "Freedom" faction. He's giving the word to the Black People's Deputy. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the performance so that we don't waste time moving the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u2	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Today we are all looking at the events that are taking place in the east of Ukraine and asking the Lord to protect our boys who are armed to protect our land. But I would also like to draw your attention to another problem related to the situation in the East. Today, in eastern Ukraine, those divers, terrorists operating on our land, are deliberately destroying the land’s municipal infrastructure. Respectable Society! Today, bombs, bombs are being bombed, utilities are being fired today, electricity is running out, water is running out, and many people in eastern Ukraine are on the loose. I'll remind you what a tragedy it was for Ukraine when in 2006 in Alcevsk 700 houses were left running out of heat as a result of the accident. Even today, those people in the East of Ukraine, they can manage somehow, but what happens when winter comes, when hundreds of houses can run out of electricity, without heat. In fact, in Donbas, in Luhansk, people are going to freeze to death and we get a lot of refugees because the cities of Donetsk and Lugansk will actually prove to be uninhabitable. I'll just give you some facts. So at the beginning of June, the Donbas Water Company was demolished, and four cities ran out of water. On June 10, terrorists fired on a pump station at the River Donz Canal, and so many cities were running out of water and are now provided with spare wells. Similarly, from June 12, water was reduced in Macievka, only 4 in the morning and 4 in the evening. So society, if it goes on like this, we can actually get tens or even hundreds of alchevans before winter. And so today, society, it is very important for the authorities to take care of protecting East Ukraine's municipal infrastructure. Terrorists who operate on this earth evidently know their own business. We have to do this not even for the comfort of the people who are now in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. We have to do this so that in winter they don't freeze from the cold in their unheated multistory, without heat, without electricity, without water. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u3	The word is given to Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u4	Respectable Society! Dear Chairman! Dear voters! Nearly four months have passed since the Day of the Dignity Revolution. In the early days of those sign and notable events, the whole society looked forward to the Ukrainian Parliament -- the only legitimate body. And in this room during the first days, more than 300 votes were cast for the country’s decision. 371 votes won by the Prime Minister, not in the history of Ukraine. We have a legitimate government today, we have a legitimate President-elect, and suddenly it turns out that the Ukrainian Parliament has become a stopover. With great difficulty after dozens of reminders, petty decisions are made; principles are not taken at all. So the first thing I'm going to say from this rostrum is on behalf of the faction. Today at the meeting, we have made a decision, an expected decision, we support a clear initiative of the democratic forces in Parliament on self-release. () [[Applause]] Even before, the faction has clearly supported its decision to support the newly elected President of Ukraine in his efforts to establish peace, Euro-integration processes, to overcome corruption, to improve the well-being of people. Do we have this in the hall today? We don't. No fundamental decision can be taken even by 226 votes. So, in support of the decision on self-release, we say this: friends, so that we don't have to do the same thing, so that in three months we don't see again the same faces that are said to be good, preferences have entered the hall, we absolutely need to meet the requirements of the civil society under the walls that stood on the Maidan, spilling blood: illustration, illustration and again illustration! [[Applause]] Lustration of everyone and everything! We have to have a whole new Parliament in October, a whole different face. That's why I'm asking for the Book of Illustration, and I'm a colleague from "The Strike," and I'm a colleague from "Freedom," and everyone who thinks progressively: put it in order of the day right now and adopt this law. We also need to resolve a number of fundamental issues. In principle, new electoral legislation is needed once. And remember, on June 2nd, the Central Electoral Commission came to order. Friends, reloading isn't just in time, it's out of date. I'm asking everyone, we've all gone to this: we won't be ashamed! Each one of us is loved separately, but in general those in the hall hate what we do. Let's stop this disgrace! Right before you go on your own! — Matthew 24: 45 -
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the national deputy Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u6	It became a tradition or, rather, a mantra: whatever is being considered in the Supreme Council, asking questions about parliamentary elections. And that's normal because it's normal when there's a periodic election. But, dear colleagues, at the same time, in order to get rid of this indignation, excess of emotion in setting up this issue, I propose that I record five very important things that I will now say. And it's precisely from whether these five important things that I'm about to talk about are going to be taken seriously, to a large extent, to determine what these conversations are motivated by: or personal, I emphasize, personal, own or political corporate political interest, taking into account the temporary political situation, and realizing that in a few months this political conjuncture will be substantially changed, to put it mildly. Or it's motivated by something completely different -- taking care of state interests and the real, real needs of society. So first of all, in the next House there should be not 450, but 300 people's deputies, and that's important not only from the point of view of significant financial spending, but, more specifically, the economy, that's the basic logic. Because 450 deputies were formed when the population of Ukraine was 52 million, and now it is, unfortunately, at least 7 million less, and it is not counted by those who are physically unable to vote. The other one. To return to the four-year term of office of the Supreme Council, as is the case in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union, where we take the seven-step and even better the two-year term of the Supreme Council. Why? In order for change to take place, so that more and more active, politically and socially active citizens can go through the pit of representative democracy. Third. Not in parts, but to throw out of the body of the Constitution article 80 on so - called immunity, but more specifically parliamentary immunity. And I'm not saying it from the Bay Baracht, I've already submitted these proposals to the body of the Constitution on a special commission of the Supreme Council. Four. The non-party lists, and, yes, not the party leaders, should determine the chances of the candidate reaching out to the territorial community, and the entire territorial community and elected community should be the one for which the territorial community voted the most among all the other deputies regardless of the brands they go to. [[Applause]] For brandy, venerable, past, and the community of man forever. And the fifth moment. She was very beautiful yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u7	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u8	Yesterday was a very nice offer, a very smart offer. Since no Supreme Council cadence is criticized like this one, dear fellows, let's not do a simulation of the update, but a real update, not a simulation of the reloading, where it's just the physionomy that's always been in power, but a real reload. And none of the members of this Supreme Council should make a commitment not to make the next call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u9	Dear friends, you see, each speaker raises the bar. I wonder what will now be announced from the parliamentary rostrum. Please, People's Deputy Blawajki, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u10	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, honourable Ukrainians, it is a pleasure to see the rotten stumps that have taken root here and have already rotted, in this session hall, finally starting to read the program of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. They finally heard our calls to change electoral legislation, because it's Freedom and it's Parliament's dissolution. And today it has been a pleasure to hear from our allies, who acknowledge that self-delivery to Parliament is a real thing, and are willing to sign it. By the way, let's do this today in this session hall, a lot of factions have already come forward. The second question. We also insist that this Parliament should be reduced. And it is a pleasure that Mr. Zarubinski, who has changed a million factions, a million parties and has been sitting in this session hall for how many years, knows that Parliament must be made up of 300 deputies. "Freedom" has always insisted on that. We do the same for the illustration. The bill registered by the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association is, and we can look at it today in this session room. It's a requirement of the street, if you don't want this Parliament, after it can't dissolve itself, to move forward with its legs, let's vote for it. The street requires clear rules for future elections. And the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has registered the Electoral Code, which takes into account all the wishes of the Venice Commission, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and many other international organizations. It's also the admission to election boards of all, not just parliamentary political parties, it's the election of open party lists with regional representation, it's a gender trend, because more than 20 percent of the lists should be at least women, it's other things that make it impossible to forge in elections. And today we have every chance to vote and demonstrate good will to the electorate that we want Parliament to change more than just words. So the illustration has to start with this session room, and everyone who's doing populism here has to take a serious real step towards signing under a document that envisions Parliament's self-department, the appointment of a new parliament to be elected on a new basis, a proportional basis with open party lists. Populism in this session room is so deplorable that the Ukrainian people are sick of the marmurings that have been sitting in Parliament for years and changing their position depending on the situation. How many can we afford to be pianists? How many can you lie to the Ukrainians? How much can we try to play the political conjuncture and appeal to the electors? Be consistent, and be princes at least in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u12	Answer for yourself, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, do the character, or it's the character, for this Parliament, the Ukrainian people will do. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u13	The word is given to the People's Deputy Dzardanov, the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u14	Please give the floor to my colleague Spirina.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u15	Deeply respected colleagues, the faction of the Communist Party offers you the following statement. In his statement to the Conciliation Council on 16 June 14, the People's Deputy Ljasko threatened to shoot before the Supreme Council the President of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, People's Deputy Petar Nikolaevich Simonenko. This falls within the scope of article 346 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 51, 52 of the Rules of the Supreme Council. Insulting insults, statements are heard in almost every statement not only in the Supreme Council, but also in the media. At the same time, most of the evidence given to them as a result of the verification of the force structures does not correspond to the reality. Such conduct shows disrespect for the voters who voted in favour of certain political forces and deeply harms the people they insult. Moreover, such statements induce aggressive behaviour among the population. This has a particularly negative impact on the mental state of young people, filling in the ranks of radically young people who are willing to beat everyone around them. What kind of democracy are we talking about in Ukraine today? I believe it is necessary to find out whether he is knowingly violating the Ukrainian law, using today's parliamentary integrity or his behaviour as a result of mental disorders associated with nervous stress, exhaustion. As a medic, I can clearly differentiate and diagnose today. I have no right. Because he's to be examined. But his psycho-emotional condition is critical! I'm fully responsible for that. To that end, I propose to Minhvod Ukraine in accordance with article 11. Ukraine's psychiatric assistance is carried out by a psychiatric examination to find out that it has a mental disorder. I also ask the ethics committee to consider the inadmissibility of threats, insults, rude, brutal behaviour of Deputy Lazko. If adequate measures are not taken, I will be forced as a doctor of medical science, a professor, a well-deserved doctor of Ukraine to contact WHO and other international organizations. I wish my fellow deputies to spend their energy solely on the creation of the people of Ukraine, a new positive country that unites our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u16	The word is given to the People’s Deputy. He's handing Rosenck over to the National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u17	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Well, the previous speech once again testifies to the importance of the problem of parliamentary elections and that, thank God, there will be no more disgraceful Communist faction in the next parliament. [[Applause]] And I hope that in October or September of this year our voters will give a real assessment of this political power. Thus, from the previous six presentations, we have seen five at least the need for the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the facts remain. Yesterday, the strike faction in the face of its leader, Vitali Kowalczuk, offered to move from words to specific matters. We have proposed to all factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support our draft decision on self-release of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Not in words, but in a specific case, to confirm the initiative on Parliament's self-release. Now, today we have only three signatures of faction leaders under this decree. It's actually a Faction Strike, the Fatherland faction, and the Freedom Party faction. So once again, we saw that these political forces that stood on Maidan, who fought together for the illustration of power in Ukraine, remained the only ones who really wanted to recharge power. All the other national MPs under different sauces, today we've seen 25 conditions have to be met in order to go to a parliamentary recess. And this whole populism thing about contractions. The Supreme Council, the changes in the Constitution, the changes in the law, it's all populism. Political decisions must be made. Today, this decree will be registered at the Supreme Council of Ukraine Secretariat. And I hope that in the near future it will be discussed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and there we will see the conscience and voice of every national MP in the vote for the ruling, for the UDARA decision to dissolve the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the last question, Alexander Valentine's Day, is an official parliamentary address to you as Head of the Supreme Council on behalf of the strike faction and the non-factional groups. Please explain why there is a faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. This is an anti - government force whose media report said yesterday went completely to the side of the terrorists. They made a coup in Crimea. They're doing it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u18	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u19	We demand that you, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, announce the dissolution of the Communist faction of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine immediately. Or give us an explanation of why this has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, on the basis of Deputy Rosenko's statement, I hereby order the regulatory committee to consider immediately those proposals that have been announced by the deputies and to make a draft decision, please, or an explanation for this matter. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Sobolev, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u21	Dear friends! Since today the appropriate decision has been taken by the three factions to initiate a procedure that will directly relate to the new elections, I think we need to review in general the order in which the Supreme Council works these next few weeks. We need to adopt a few decisions without which we can't move on. Since the last two weeks of the work of this parliamentary session are indeed to be done, we need the first decision to be adopted -- this is an urgent consideration in the session room of the Elections Act, which will make it impossible for the things that happened during the previous elections, when the total mass bribery of voters, total forgeries in the polling stations actually distorted the choice of the people and we got the composition of the Parliament that we have today. Secondly, our colleagues actually prepared the text of a bill on illustration. We think that this is the second bill that needs to be put into the session hall immediately so that we don't get any more wheat, Yanukovich and other impurities in the session hall, which is now being run by Russian troops, paying them and sending terrorists to Ukraine. Thirdly, we need to immediately adopt a decision to change the composition of the CBC. Because in order to admit elections, we have to have a legitimate composition of CBC, most of which ended on June 2, this year. And thirdly, we need to adopt a series of decisions that will enable us to conduct elections in, above all, a temporarily occupied area and an area where an active phase of an anti-terror operation is being carried out. These are the decisions that are somehow related and we've passed the relevant Bills with a representative of the Strike Party, with Mr. Packan, about forced displaced persons. Yesterday we included this bill in the agenda. We have replaced the previously submitted United Nations law with a corresponding bill. And we would ask you to put this bill into the session room for tomorrow, it's ready to be considered, and today the committee will adopt the appropriate decision. In addition, we need to make a number of decisions that will directly apply to the conduct of elections in the temporarily occupied territory and territory of the active phase of the ATO. This will actually allow in the next two weeks to complete that list of legislative initiatives that will allow for more stable legal, fair and transparent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u22	People's Deputy Hubbar, Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u23	Please give my word to my colleague Mikhailenko Olga Dmitrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u24	Olga Mikhailenko. Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear colleagues, voters! There is no question today more important and more complex than the question of peace in the east of our country. All discussions on this need to be translated into practical terms. Sometimes you think how many more lives it takes for the leadership of the State to realize that 7 million people in the East can't be punished can't be killed. And if a representative of unconventional orientation thinks that, by accusing Simonenko and the Company in all, he will solve the problem of the East, the deeply respected one is wrong. Why does this radical today, in power, not say who killed the Celestial Hundreds, who took over the premises in the Centre and in the West of our country, the premises of the forces, the hundreds of weapons? And that was a mirror reflection of events in the East. Why is it that this paid “viloneur” who is previously tried for theft in a particularly large way, earning cheap authority, owns the palaces allegedly for orphans, but has not sheltered any children until today. A servant does well to perform the oligarches of the foreign trade. Why were the oligarchs appointed to power along with others? And you're not saying anything about that today? And 25 billion bracelets, along with others, were taken from the poor and the poor and the eagles that the Communists did not vote. We will never vote for such bills. The Communists were, as always, right to propose an all-Ukrainian referendum on the vector of the economic integration of our State. Neither European policies in the Supreme Council have supported this peaceful way of resolving the issue, but have eventually unleashed war. The people of our country know that the Company is trying to ban it because we are protecting their rights and freedoms. Know, gentlemen of the East Ukraine will never forgive you for the deaths of peaceful people and innocent children! Mothers throughout Ukraine will curse all supporters and organizers of hostilities. You, the servants of the Americans and the Europeans who tasted their cakes on the ground, have unleashed a fratricidal war, and be kind enough to stop this bloodshed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues! National Deputy Dorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u26	Please give my word to my comrade Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u27	Goncharov Sergei, Company faction, Luganskina. Respectable voters! Freedom of speech is precious to society, but only when the word is true. At present, many politicians are throwing away many unverified but sometimes simply false facts that are then captured and disseminated by electronic media. Such a statement destabilizes the already tense situation, particularly the Luhansk region. Many of the Lugans were outraged by the excruciating freedom expressed by a high-ranking public official, Maxim Blunt, the first deputy of the Crucifixors, who said in an interview that Luganskteplord was turning down his activities and transferring the production of heat to Russia. While the enterprise is actually increasing the production of heat, new forward-looking models of locomotives with German, Russian and American installations are being developed. This year, 28 electric vehicles were delivered to Ukrazaliznice. 118 thermal sections were constructed within 5 months. There are orders not only from Russia, but also from railways from Mongolia, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan. 6.5,000 workers are paid on time, paying all taxes. Regrettably, the VAT reimbursement of the State budget is already 400 million, which exceeds the annual salary fund. This should be known to the general colonel's "districts" officer, and we see non-professionalism, incompetence in providing information that has not studied the enterprise issue perfectly. Unfortunately, he's not alone. We today have many such knowledge among ministers in our industries that they would not have been put in colossal covens before. The personnel decide everything, have, eat, and will be determining. And as far as we can see and hear false information, rumors that the East is not paying taxes now are a little bit, almost 22 per cent of taxes in a common boiler. Today, in Luhansk, 158,000 single contributors paid more than four billion. And this is confirmed by Igor Bellows, head of Goss. Service. I want to step down today immediately on those who believed another coup about the alleged disbandment of the KPU in Luhansk. No Communist left the party, and more than half a thousand came. There is no solution to the faction in the District Council. And if someone thinks about creating an alternative. So we already had CPIs and CPSs. And for those of particular concern, I would like to say: The company was, it will be, and it will be. And the next president will probably be a communist. And the last. The position of selected central media is particularly repressive, which is encouraged by the treatment of today's events at Donbassa. For the mothers of Lugansk and Lviv, Donetsk and Dnepropetrovska, losing their sons is a great tribulation. For the memory of all the dead, the lives of many thousands of Donbas children require the restoration of peace. Our mothers and children must not hide in the basements at the sound of flying planes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u28	We've run out of time for the performances at all. And two names during the performances were named. I'll give you one minute at a time. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u29	Such a somewhat hysterical reflection on my five very important suggestions is evidence of the fact that we often have the prom, in fact, not the national interest, but the interest of the temporary conjuncture, the rating conjuncture. The ratings are, they're gone, the brands are, they're gone, and the parliamentary work is left. And I'm not going to respond in the same way to the words of my esteemed colleague, because I think differently about what a parliamentarian is. Some people think that parliamentarians are scandals, they're epapathies, they're clowns, they're fighting those who can't answer, they're using their parliamentary mandate. [[Applause]] And another person would be in prison, and the deputy, you see, group bullying is not responding. My position as a national MP is legislation. I am the author of more than 200 bills, dozens of which are part of Ukrainian legislation, including the Freedom of Movement Act and the Free Choice of Residence Act, half the European Integration Laws. Make the tenth of what I did, then you can open your mouth!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u30	I'd like to give you a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! And notice, there's a traitor Simonenko sitting in the Parliament Hall and girls coming out of his faction and protecting Simonek. Why did you hide under your grandmother's skirt?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u32	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u33	Come here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u34	Use parliamentary language, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u35	Come here and tell me why Rodin sold, you son of a bitch? What are you going to Moscow for? How much money do you spend on subversive activity? You're saying I want to shoot Simonek. I don't want to shoot him -- 90 percent of Ukrainian citizens want to shoot him, bury him and quarter him for betraying the country, for killing Ukrainian soldiers, killing civilians because of such sales skins in Ukraine. Ukraine will never forgive these traitors for what they are making today. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u36	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next time, Oleg Valeriyovich, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u37	Give me one word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u38	One word, please. One word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u39	Give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I ask you to control your emotions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're starting to work according to the order of today's session. And I invite the head of the National Bank of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, to the parliamentary rostrum to inform the Supreme Council about the work of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u41	Good afternoon, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! Good afternoon, fellow MPs! He thinks it's appropriate for many people I've met both at the National Bank and at the National Bank walls, all the more and participated in committee meetings, to report on the situation that is today in the Ukrainian banking system. We all understand that Ukraine is in a stage and that in the actual actions of the undeclared war, people are killed. We understand that what we got in Crimea, for the banking system in Ukraine, was a huge blow that affected the banking system, affected the liquidity and capacity of banks. I want to remind you that in Crimea, the amount that affected liquidity and the assets of the bank is 22 billion dollars. This is the representation of 53 banks, this is 22 balance sheets, this is 1 thousand 20 unbalanced divisions. Along with the "Savedbink", which has about 300 branches, "Privatbank", which has more than 330 branches, together with the government have provided all the last social benefits, pensions, scholarships and maximum deposit returns. Until the activities of Russian terrorists that took over the territory of the National Bank of Ukraine were suspended. The situation began to calm down, and we received an explosion in the East. I'm talking about Donetsk and I'm talking about Lugansk today. These are assets of more than 100 billion, this is a deposit base and an obligation on current accounts of more than 76 billion, this is an inability to keep bank accounts calm. And the last incident that happened the other day was the capture of the district government at the Donetsk National Bank of Ukraine, where people with machine guns were attacked, where all the district officials were placed on the floor, where communication devices were taken, where they were forced to write their release applications under the gun. By decision of both the government and the President, as I have informed them, all measures have been taken, and yesterday, in one day, the Court of Auditors, 11 banks of legal persons, 10 balance sheets, 1576 divisions have been transferred to Kiev. Over the night, we were able to build a backup site that continued to pay, social pensions, scholarships, client accounts, and, most importantly, even the payment of our budget. Today, we are talking about maintaining a stable banking system, during Ukraine's independence at a very critical, not simple time. Over the years of independence, there has been no situation today, 86 billion deposits in four months, 86 billion, that's the effect on the liquid banking system. The National Bank’s government, along with associations, together with a meeting of bankers, which was held three times during this period, did not make the standard decisions to secure the banking system with liquid costs, to preserve the payment capacity and to fulfil the obligations of the banking system to investors, to customers, to perform the basic function of stabilizing the bracelet, which is prescribed by the Constitution. We've given banks the necessary liquidity. The charges against me, as the head of the bank, to the government of the National Bank, which has been issued more than 112 billion in liquidity, are not true. We've spent about 53 billion on liquidity. Of these, 5 billion today, 100 million are returned, of which 1 billion 400 are returned in a timely fashion. All the other money, it was very short costs, deposit certificates that we did and used as a tool for the banking system. At the same time, I want to say that, today, the National Bank of Ukraine has started to diagnose banks -- 37 banks, where stress tests will be conducted to determine the reliability of the banking system, to see what kind of capital is needed for the banking system, to ensure payability, liquidity, to trust citizens in the banking system, to concrete banks, to do these state tasks that are before us today. At the same time, I'm not going to call it a figure, you're given all the tax materials that were made during this period of bank activity, by the government of the bank, which today gives information to the members of the Supreme Council. We set up an audit committee at the Bank's Council. There has been a meeting, twice, of the Board of the Bank, where the complex issues of the current situation and the quick decisions we need to make have been addressed. At the same time, I want to make it clear that the government of the National Bank has made a number of decisions that have an impact, and I want you to now hear specific figures for the transparent activities of the National Bank, for the fight against sinks and conversion points in the last three years. I would like to say that about 20 banks in 2012 and 2013 had a non-proper function for Ukraine’s banking system, which had a negative impact on citizens’ trust in banks. These banks are small, they're not big banks, they're banks of almost every last group. I want to say the number. In two years, the bank’s cash accounted for 240 billion dollars. I want to say that the intensification of the financial monitoring of banks that are currently being tested has revealed a very serious group of criminals against people, people first of all, and the banking system, and countries that have managed to bring out more than $10 billion across the country through an investment account element. These are these banks, which in the last year, and these are 2 banks, I'll call this example, 10 billion have taken out and carried out cash operations that are not owned using an agricultural enterprise tool, 110 billion. We took the licenses back to those banks. And you know how it ended? The decision of the day - to - day trial of one and one Kyiv suspended the action of the Order of the National Bank! I had a conversation with both the Prime Minister and the President, where urgent action is taken on those actions, I would say, that are criminal today, which will determine the appropriate court. I would also like to inform you that the last check of the National Bank of one small bank of Kiev for one individual revealed 252 current accounts. In two months of January-February, 4.9 billion dollars were taken out through this person. You know, these are numbers that say to themselves that, if the law enforcement system is capable of working quickly on these facts today, we have enough resources that we can get back to the state treasury. At the same time, I would like to inform you that a public council has been set up at the National Bank of Ukraine. The public council was created because a few dozen meetings at the National Bank walls on the decision of the bank's administration and understanding of the situation among investors today, businessmen decided to make the National Bank more transparent and open-minded about the participation of members of the public council, meeting with it and working with associations. At the same time, to date, we have developed a strategy for the development of the banking sector by 2020 under the rule of the National Bank. This is not a document approved by the government. It is discussed with the government today. This document is being discussed with the Association of Ukrainian Banks, an independent association of the Kyiv Banking Union, which will take into account all the observations in order to get a document that entails important positions of transition to modern monetary policy, the introduction of the inflation targeting regime, the gradual decline in inflation expectations. At the same time, today we have to say that the banking system is being consolidated. Those banks that do not perform their own functions make the appropriate decisions to transfer them to the Fund to guarantee the investments of individuals. Yesterday, a decision was made to give 4.2 billion dollars to the Fund to Guarantee the Investments of Individuals to fulfil the guaranteed obligations of the State, to those investors who trusted their contributions conscientiously to one bank or another. We also want to improve the quality of management both at the National Bank of Ukraine and to raise the quality of management in commercial banks. I want to inform you that more than 600 people are optimized at the National Bank of Ukraine today, coming out of time. Along with talking about what the National Bank needs to do in the future, we need to continue to reform the banking system to ensure the confidence of citizens' contributions, so that the inflation targeting regime meets the requirements of time; so that we don't have what we had for years of independence when the dollar was 1.8-3.42, 3.42-5, 5-9, 9-8, 8-11. You can't live under stress. And it's this mechanism that we're going to introduce in a year that will allow which dollar to be removed from every citizen's mind, that will suit the standards that are in Europe today. I've had multiple meetings with the government, with the Committee on Finance and Banking, with other committees, and I've been to more than six meetings of the committee on the current issues, the bills that we decide with you in the hall. I would say that the National Bank's strategy, working with international financial institutions, with the International Monetary Fund, is also part of the reforms that the National Bank needs to carry out in the medium term and in the long term. We have a chance, and we should not lose it today, because the banking system of Ukraine, the great professionalism of the National Bank, the commercial and state banks that work for the conscience and the state position. Those who meet today’s challenges in society can restore confidence in Ukraine’s banking system. I want to say that the pro-European activity of the government, the pro-European activity of the President today should consolidate the rapid adoption of laws that should be introduced into society today. We, today, are responsible and have this responsibility with the values of Maidan, and this responsibility is with the values of each person. For me, values are God and Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've heard the information of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine and let's move on to the issues that are included in the agenda. Please make an announcement to the secretariat so that the deputies will enter the session room and be ready to make their decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u43	Not yet, we've got some work to do. Dear colleagues, attention, we're with you yesterday. Please, just calm down. My dear colleagues, we were not able to bring you into the agenda yesterday and consider the important draft of Alexander Kuzmuk, which relates to the security of our country. — Registration No. 4844. This is a bill amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act. I inform you that the committee has considered this issue and recommends that it be accepted in the first reading. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a suggestion that we include in the order of the day this bill of the Law and consider it immediately. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Secretariat, please make another announcement, first of all at the buffet, so everyone can come up to the plenary room. Dear colleagues, please sit down. And so, dear colleagues, the draft Law. — Registration No. 4844. The suggestion is to put it in the order of the day first. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[10:57:48]] For-195 The decision is not taken. As soon as we begin to vote, I appeal to the National Deputies. Can't we go to the vote, honourable national MPs, not after the vote? Please try again to make a decision to include this project in the agenda. Please, Andrew. Also sit down, please, so that you can vote. Colleagues, can we put it to a vote? I'm going to try again, and then I'm going to go to another question. I'm warning all the national MPs, we're not going to discuss the issue without making a decision. There is no willingness of the Supreme Council to vote, so we will put and actually reject legislative acts, in accordance with the Rules. Please, dear fellows! Once again, I would like to support the inclusion of a daily bill (4844) to amend article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service (for reserve and reserve age). Please support inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[10:59:18]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 59, regions – 2, Impact – 31, 29 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, 32 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Let's move on to the next question. No, no, no, there's no such thing. Let's move on to the next question, dear colleagues. This is the question that was discussed in the session room from which we need to make a decision. It is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of occupational diseases in workers (2323 registration number). Committee proposal: The first reading of this law. There were no other suggestions during the discussions. Please, dear fellow Members, on the first reading as a basis. Please vote. 2323 is the registration number of the draft law. [[11:00:28]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we move on to our first reading? Turn on the microphone for the MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, I ask you, in the area of conduct, to consider one more question in the agenda, to include in the agenda so that we can consider on the committee this Law (4104) on the prestige of teaching work. Yesterday I reported to the Supreme Council that the government had made a decision and had withdrawn 20 percent of the allowances for all teachers from schools to PTU, teachers and so on, 20 percent of the wages. That's when the salary went down by 30 percent. I ask you, colleagues of honour, Alexander Valentine's Day, to include 4,104 in the agenda so that we can see on the committee and adopt as law 20 percent of the allowance to teachers in all schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, there is a procedure, please pass the law and will be considered on the committee, and we will consider its inclusion and readiness to vote. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would very much ask you on behalf of all those mothers who. and the parents who sent their sons to fight for integrity, independence and security, particularly for the members of the Supreme Council, their children, to return to the Kuzmuk bill. That's the first one. And the second. Individual national MPs, who in their own time owned almost all the gas surpluses, particularly in my Poltava region, would advise me not to speculate on the subject of teachers today, because if this area had not been looted in its own time and the whole state, teachers would now have lived better than teachers in England, France and any other country in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please, let's take this step: I don't deny going back to question 4844, but let's, right now, we're going to be able to look at the readiness of the room to make responsible decisions. We didn't support it now, but we had to consider a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on the subject "The defence of Ukraine in the 21st century. Challenges, threats and ways to overcome them." Such parliamentary hearings are proposed in September 2014. There's an offer. Now, now! There's a proposal for us to take this draft decision as a basis and as a whole, and then we would go back to question 4844. No objections? Dear colleagues, once again, 4027a. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer for July. So change immediately, not for September, but for July, which is for the next sessional weeks, actually. The only way the committee can prepare this question. Is the profile committee getting ready? He's on his way. Anatoly Kirilovich? He's on his way. Okay. Then, honourable colleagues, the proposal to support the draft ruling on parliamentary hearings on "The Defence of Ukraine in the 21st Century. The challenges, threats and ways of overcoming them" not in September, but in July 2014. Please, Your Honor, with these amendments to support as a whole. Registration number of this project 4027a. Please vote. [[11:04:47]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we try to get into the agenda now? Please, Oleg Pullibok. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u48	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! Today, in the order of day, but at the very end of this agenda, we have included three of our draft decrees regarding the referral of the Ukrainian Parliament to various international structures, such as the UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe on the exclusion of Russia from these organizations, and on the investigation of the facts of the Russian Federation's military aggression against Ukraine, which has led to widespread violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. There's a proposal that while the people of parliament who are currently concentrated here are -- there are voices, let's now vote for these extremely important international documents that will help us defeat the external aggressor. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think there's going to be a test vote now. There may be voices, but there is a willingness or willingness to make responsible decisions. And now we're going to see this by voting for inclusion in the agenda and reviewing the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Let's, dear fellows, 4844, when we are ready, there will certainly be these questions that Oleg Tuggnebok spoke about and ask now to make decisions about them. Please, Your Honor, 4844 is inclusion in the agenda. Please support the people's deputies. Please vote. [[11:06:52]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 63, Regions – 1, Impact – 32, 32 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 33. Dear colleagues, I can't keep my voice out of you! Please, for the last time, I'm going to try to put the inclusion in the agenda. Please don't disturb the Communists. Colleagues, ready to vote? There's a ready one. I beg you, let's work responsibly. Integrating. Mr. MacKeenko! Mr. Makeyenko, please, your voice may not be enough. Please take your seat. Dear colleagues, please, regarding the inclusion in the agenda of 4844. I am convinced that this voice will now help us make a decision. Please support inclusion. [[11:08:06]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we read it now, without consideration? We can. Please support this project on the basis of the first reading, in order to develop it in a simplified procedure, and in a simplified procedure to work on it. Please support me as a base. [[11:08:38]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, under a reduced procedure, there is a question here that the government can also consult on the committee, because this law has not yet been seen by the government. Please, dear fellows. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u50	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! I want to take into account what the head of the National Bank said about the fact that all the actions that are now being implemented to disqualify the licenses, to carry out the follow-up on the bankers who created the conversion centres, and that we know that banks are also sponsoring, and to sponsor terrorists and separatists in the east of Ukraine and in the south. I can say that if we see a meeting of the Supreme Council yesterday, which was distributed, it's the agreement of the conciliatory board of MPs and factions and today's, it's kind of strange to exclude the interim commission of inquiry from these facts, because what he called Cuba and the one that I have dozens of references to all committees, starting with organized crime, fighting organized crime to the justice of the investigating organs, is what it is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, when there's a project, I ask the Regulatory Committee when it considers it, we can set it up on Thursday. I don't deny it, by any means. Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u52	Matvienkov, faction of the regions. Alexander Valentinović, I'd like to ask you anyway about our work with you. Something like that seems to me, in order for us to get a word in the room, we need to be an inadequate deputy, only then do you keep giving your word, on the issues that we're considering, that's one question. Second question. As it turns out, we've been studying the theory of math -- probability, we've been studying, and we know. As it turns out, the whole faction today has turned out to be a waste of words, in this morning's gap, that's one question. And the second question is, we heard Nazbank's report. Please tell me, who needs these reports? For we must determine how he worked for these 100 days, and I would like to know where 21.5 billion went to refinance banks, which banks, which banks are turning that money, and which banks are going to have to lend to all of us, the whole state. Have they become cheaper credit lines for small, medium-sized businesses, what is the price of credit and so on and so forth. Who needs these reports? I therefore very much wanted you to weigh down the work of our Supreme Council and draw some conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I inform you that the Council system chooses who to give the floor to and trust me that the council has no protection to the communists, but three communists in a row have had the opportunity to speak. To get the word, you have to press the buttons of not one MP, but the whole faction and then, in statistical theory, you can get the opportunity to speak. Dear colleagues, please. Please, let's still calm down. It was suggested that the draft Order should be moved to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council for the exclusion of the Russian Federation. We can try to put to a vote if it's supported, then I'll make other decisions so that we don't have to vote, sorry, that just takes those questions out of the agenda. No objections? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council to the General Assembly of the United Nations? Please, let's give the author two minutes and make a decision. Please, Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. A respected society, an illegal invasion by the Russian Federation into Ukraine by military and military technology, has been recognized as an act of military aggression by the entire world community. After the annexation by Russia of the Ukrainian Crimea, which was preceded by the military occupation of the peninsula and an illegal referendum on its exit from Ukraine, Russia is still trying to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. In mid - April, Russian armed fighters took over administrative buildings in the ranks of Donetské and Lugansk. Fighters kidnap, torture, kill people, take hostages. Armed clashes in eastern Ukraine have killed hundreds of military, hundreds seriously injured. Under these circumstances, any friendly relationship with a country that openly engages in the destruction of the Ukrainian people cannot be at all. The actions of the Russian Federation as a member of the United Nations Security Council and a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, which is linked to Ukraine in 1997, are totally unacceptable. This is a violation of the fundamental principles of international relations that undermine the foundations of security on the European continent. By the way, in 1939 the Soviet Union was expelled from the League of Nations for aggression against Poland and Finland. Similarly today, Russia must be expelled from all international organizations because of aggression against Ukraine and a brutal breach of international treaties. That's why, society, we're proposing to you three bills: draft regulations 4520, 4521 and 4522, on the Council of Europe, on the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and on the General Assembly of the United Nations and the UN Security Council on the exclusion of Russia from those organizations. As well as investigating the facts of Moscow’s military aggression against Ukraine, which could lead to international conflicts and threaten international security and peace. I propose that we show solidarity, responsibility, and vote in favour of these three decisions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's do a test vote right now so we don't give a reason to say that Parliament didn't support a proposal that objectively condemns the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation against our country. So, dear fellows, I now want to be tested in order for the Supreme Council to show its readiness to consider these three decrees. Signal vote, please, Your Honor. Please take your seats. Please hold a signal vote on Parliament's readiness to address these three issues. Please, Your Honor, vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[11:16:09]] For-187 In the signal vote. By factions, please show me. 66 - Fatherland, 0 – Party of Regions, Hit 30.7 – Economic Development, 23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 27. Dear colleagues, let's work with factions and be prepared to make a decision, I'm willing to put it not to a vote, but to a real vote. Dear colleagues, on a daily basis, we are not discussing the agenda. Colleagues, we're on schedule. We're not gonna include the law out of the voice, I mean, right now. Please make suggestions, and at the Conciliation Council, we will consider and make decisions. Dear colleagues, in order to make decisions, we need to start a block that deals with the legislative acts that have been prepared and the professional committees for adoption in the first reading. Please, 3672 registration number of the project. This is a draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the protection of biodiversity). Please, Andrew Jaroslavovich Tajnibok is invited to report to the rostrum. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal that we consider all laws relating to first reading by means of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:17:52]] For-191 It's a procedural decision. Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u56	Andrey Tajnibok, U.S.A. Freedom. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies and present! Your attention is given to the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the protection of biodiversity), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Sech Irina and Andrey Tajnibok (registration number 3672), which was reviewed by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on 16 April 2014. Since August 1990, Ukraine has joined a series of international conventions and treaties for the protection of biodiversity. The international instruments ratified by Ukraine are obliged to bring the Ukrainian legislation on biodiversity into line with them. Unfortunately, however, some of the provisions of existing biodiversity laws have not yet been brought into line with the international convention and treaties under which Ukraine is responsible to the world community. The project is aimed at improving the legislative regulation of relations related to the protection of objects in the Red Book of Ukraine, the preservation of Ukraine’s territorial and natural-invention fund, the protection of animals from cruel behavior, and so forth. The project highlights proposals for clarifying the protection of Red Book subjects, correcting the ban on the use of animals in tests, competitions, trekking of hunting animals, and more. The relevant amendments are proposed to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Laws of Ukraine on the Red Book, on the Protection of Animals from Cruel Conduct, on the Hunting and Hunting, on Veterinary Medicine, on the Natural and Command Fund. The aim of the adoption of the law is to strengthen measures to protect biodiversity and improve the protection of objects of the Red Book of Ukraine, to preserve the territory of the Ukrainian environmental fund, to protect the environment of biodiversity objects, to bring Ukraine's laws to international environmental law, to strengthen Ukraine's authority on international law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u57	Please finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u58	The Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, in its conclusion to the proposed bill, notes that no corruption factors have been identified in the subsequent bill and that the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the bill has an impact on the budgetary indicators, increasing the expenditure of the state and local budgets, as well as the coming of the state budget, provided they are identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u59	So the proposal to support in the first reading is, I mean, on the basis of the first reading. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to discuss this issue? There's a wish. Please sign in. National MP Pavlov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u60	Please give the floor to national deputy Glasun's Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u61	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u62	I gave my word to Glasun's Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u63	Please turn on the Glazunov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u64	Thank you. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support this bill, but we would like to point out that section II, paragraph 1, should include an amendment to the revision of part six of article 20. Or other defined numerations in the structure of the article, since part six of this article already exists. There is also a ban on the shooting of animals, and only in populated areas can it automatically be allowed outside populated areas, and this should be done in more detail. I think the second reading might take all of this into account, so I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u65	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Lydia Kotelak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u67	Please, Lydia Kotelak, to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the Fatherland faction supports the draft of Law 3672 on the Protection of Biodiversity and calls upon other factions and groups to accept it as a basis. This bill, first of all, will allow a qualitative adaptation of national legislation in the field of environmental protection to the norms and standards of international conventions and agreements that Ukraine has ratified since the 1990s. And over the course of this time, no steps have been taken to meet the world community, while our nation is responsible for this. The adoption of this draft law will strengthen Ukraine's authority in the international arena, adapt Ukraine's laws to international environmental law, create a modern ecological attitude towards biodiversity, improve the protection of the Red Book of Ukraine, strengthen the protection of the environment of biodiversity objects and preserve Ukraine's natural resources. What's important is that the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Committee are positive. And the flaws that can be removed in preparing for the second reading. Let us be socially responsible, because the risks and threats posed by irresponsible environmental policies are of cross-border importance, so Ukraine must do its utmost today to join the world conservation year in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u69	The word is given to the National Deputy Sabia, the Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Galina Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u71	Please turn on the microphone of the Black People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u72	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! This is a really important law, because we are moving to Europe today, and we know that in Europe these are such obvious facts of how animals, of nature, of biosphere reserves are treated much more humanely and more deeply than we have in Ukraine. Thus, this law regulates these rules that will allow it to be aligned with European legislation. Very important things are proposed by this law, such as the creation of so - called moving animals, where animals do not have the capacity to exist properly, where there are no conditions for them to feel comfortable. Similarly, the law prohibits the use of traps during the hunting season, and so is the very important thing -- the shooting of birds, animals, which unfortunately is practiced in Ukraine today with pneumatic and cold weapons. So this law actually gives us a more humane attitude toward animals. Similarly, there are some things that relate to improving the situation in the biosphere reserves. For example, it is forbidden to extract sand, extract gravel in rivers, and other reservoirs in biosphere reserves. I propose to support this bill, which will align our legislation with European legislation in the field of animal protection and in the field of conservation of biosphere reserves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u73	Here's the only small comment, there may be problems in the moving crevices, because parliamentary elections are proposed for the term. So let's take a look here. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u74	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! There is no doubt that this bill and the following bill of colleagues should be supported, respectively, by Sech and Mikli Tomenka. Despite the comments that have been made, including by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, at least these are bills that carry the spirit of humanity in relation to animals. But I have a question, Alexander Valentine's Day, and I can ask you a question. We care about biodiversity and it's right about the animal world and it's the right thing to do. But these bills were not in order yesterday, and yesterday my daily bill was about the obligation to keep orphans in Ukraine. It's not about animals, it's about people, it's about social orphans, it's about those who can't protect themselves. I realize that the question of conservation work, hunting is very interesting, there are many hunters. I'm saying once again that I support the bill and Sech and Tomenka, they're right. But respectable colleagues, well, you can't form the agenda like that. Yesterday we stopped on the issue of protection of orphans, maintenance of orphans. This question has been thrown out of order, and the issue of protecting the animal world has been raised. That is not the case, for humanity must be, above all, toward those who cannot protect themselves: to children, to orphans. I'm asking you to consider that. And you can vote for these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I'll just let you know that questions that haven't been considered yesterday will be put on Thursday. And today’s agenda is shaped accordingly by the decisions of the Conciliation Council. So let's not get emotional here and ask more questions. This law will certainly be considered tomorrow. I ask the secretariat to monitor the readiness of this issue to be considered and included in the agenda. Please, one minute from the strike party, National Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we have carefully read the first and subsequent bills. We'll support them. And at the same time, I'd like to ask the Freedoms, the authors of these bills, to support our faction in the same way. It's the second day that I've got Peter's assistant in a red T-shirt that says "Caplin's Law: Five Passes of the Supreme Council's Session" and out of the Council!" Please join us with your signatures to support this initiative. We need 150 signatures this week. It's already 120. The signatures of your faction are missing. It's all so that ordinary Ukrainian citizens don't consider their deputies animals, and we don't end up being brought into the Red Book because individual national MPs ignore their duties and don't go to work. Five passes, get out of the Council! Please support our initiative, the strike party initiative and its faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, please, Oleg Dragnibok, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u78	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to talk to Capplin's colleague. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union, not on paper, not on signatures, not on words, but on a case-by-case basis, shows how to work in Parliament. We're here for a hundred percent of the time, if we don't have deputies from Freedom, then just for good reason, maybe some parliamentary activity or a serious illness, everything else is not the reason. We're always here, we're disciplined, we always vote unanimously. That's why we, my friend Cappline, don't have to appeal. We always support such things. Here we have to appeal to another part of the hall -- to the Party of Regions, to Communists who either go to a session or do not go to a session, they get paid and work in such a way that everything goes against the Ukrainian state and Ukrainian national interests, they vote differently today to strengthen national sovereignty and territorial integrity. That's where they need to be appealed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, we have discussed in sufficient detail the draft Law (registration number 3672). And now we need to make a decision. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, invite me and you'll leave the hall and go to your places of work, please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. According to the committee, we are now deciding to support the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on biodiversity protection on the basis of the first reading (registration number 3672). Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote. Colleagues, vote, please. [[11:32:30.]] For 245 Decision taken. The next issue, also related to environmental protection, is a project (registration number 4004) to amend some of Ukraine’s legislation on the protection of the animal world. Please, National Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I will continue with the initiatives that Andrew Tajnibok has made, which is our group, I mean a parliamentary group that has already joined in this call, and Andrew Jaroslavovich is working to keep in mind that the animal world, ecology, environmental protection needs our support. Remember, we've adopted a series of progressive environmental laws in the previous convening, and just two bills: one we've adopted on the first reading, I'm presenting a second bill that we've registered with Andry Tuggnibok, but it's prepared by a group of experts, well-known public figures, we've included a community of fishermen led by Andry Nelipa, and a well-known public figure, Vladimir Boreyk and others, environmentalists, who have no doubts about the reputation. I'm focusing on one thing: that in part of protecting the animal world and protecting our waters, you understand that experts estimate that today in Ukraine the ratio between extraction and the legal way and poaching has reached 50 by 50. Today, poached fish are extracted, and half of the fish are extracted from ecologically defined fish. So we're clarifying a few of the principles that we've adopted in our previous call. So, for example, you and I introduced criminal responsibility, and I reported this bill using electronics, but we didn't prohibit advertising. And for example, the Internet advertises that, like, "buy these electric devices for this amount," and so on and so forth. So we put these gaps in the environmental protection part here. And there are some ideas from the Ministry, some warnings. I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u81	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u82	Some warnings are appropriate ministries. And we're on the round table, which was held on the eve of the rest of the season, and we agreed that after the first reading, we're bringing in our ministries, the appropriate authorities, to write out clearer standards of protection and interaction with the authorities, and in the second reading, together with the relevant structures, we're voting in general. So there's an offer to support in the first reading, and after the second reading, we'll take into account all the suggestions and warnings that were made at our bill's address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u83	Thank you. Honorable colleagues are willing to discuss this matter? Can we support it right away? There is a desire to discuss. Please sign up. From the committee, while we're on the record, the word is given to Andrew Tsagnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u84	Andrey Tajnibok, U.S.A. Freedom. Respectable association. This bill was already under consideration last year. Unfortunately, it did not receive any votes. The committee has reviewed this bill and the committee supports it, supports the bill in order to adopt it in the first reading. The bill was also discussed by the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, and the proposed bill concluded that the draft did not reveal corruption factors and that the draft act met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the bill has an impact on the budget, increase in revenue, increase in the coming of the State budget, if appropriate, and depending on the sanctions applied. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government believes that the draft law of the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work is appropriate. The Cabinet of Ministers supports this bill, provided that the proposals are taken into account. Respectable Society! This is a very necessary bill to enable us to develop our natural resources properly. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputies of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u86	Ruslan Marcinkov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Your Honor, of course, our faction supports this bill and should be approved. Because this law also expands the authority of local governments, including animal control, plants, biodiversity, and biodiversity that the Lord God has given us. So today, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom thinks that this law needs to be supported and I am asking the Head of the Supreme Council that we should set aside one day of plenary meeting on laws that relate to strengthening the role of local self-government and take real steps to show to the local communities today that this Supreme Council is capable of voting today for legislative acts that reinforce the role of communities. Especially with regard to the laws of the All-U.S. Freedom faction regarding changes to the Budget Code, which will allow us today the costs of local communities, including animal control, the treatment of dogs, the other animals that exist in local communities. It's not in state treasury, it's in government institutions and state banks. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom believes that today, one day of plenary session, we have to set aside to consider all legislative initiatives that are relevant to strengthening the role of local self-government and local communities. This is very important in the context that Ukraine must move from strong declarations to decisive action on strengthening the role of local self - government. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u87	Thank you. People's deputy Glazunov, faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u88	Thank you. Well, first of all, what I'd like to say is that it's the proposed edition of part one of article 35 of the Animal World Act, part one of the first project. It does not take into account that the article is dedicated to guaranteeing and protecting the rights of owners and users of animal objects. If removed from the first link to these subjects, it loses its special purpose and becomes distorted. Nor is it acceptable to suggest that the order of damages in this area should be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It should be borne in mind that this order is regulated by many laws, including laws. In particular, the civil code of Ukraine, article 22, and other articles regulate the general issue of environmental damage compensation. Ukraine’s Environmental Protection Act, article 69. The specificities of compensation in this area are defined by article 63 of the Animal World Act of Ukraine. Article 20 of the Ukrainian Red Book Act. Article 65 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's Natural Command Fund. " In view of this, we believe that there is no need to make the proposed changes to part one of article 35 of the Animal World Act. The faction of the Party of the Regions agrees with the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority and suggests that the bill be submitted for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u89	I got the offer. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, as I have noted, our faction supports the initiatives of our colleagues in the Freedom faction. And separately, we would like to stress the need for as short a time as possible to prohibit industrial fishing in inland waters, as has been the case in world practice, particularly in Europe. At present, there is a situation where there is actually a national mafia that breaks through the licensing and control of all this shameful practice. And now for the animals. I'd like to go to the leader of the Freedom faction and help ask for help to remove the Supreme Council from the next call of the oligarchs, part of the Party of the Regions, of course, the Communists. To do so is because of our initiative to deprive the deputies of their mandate for five walks. When the oligarchs see this norm in the next election, they will realize that there is nothing for them to do in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because this is where they're going to have to go to work, or they're going to be behind the ears of our faction with you from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're going to have a nice, clean, perfect parliament. Parliament, which will not be disgraced by the presence of Kremlin agents in the Communist Party, and directly by their leaders, the mercenary Putin. The other one. There will be no oligarchs who robbed the Ukrainian people. This money was hated by the boards and slipped into Parliament. And there will be no bandits and corrupts. Young, smart, hardworking Ukrainian citizens will be. A new generation of Ukrainian politicians. I emphasize that you and Hitting are the most disciplined factions in the Supreme Council. And once again, I'm asking you to support this strike, and the one that's relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I'm warning you, no, I'm not letting you finish because you're not speaking on the subject. Do you understand? And I'd like to ask, dear colleagues. I'd like to ask your colleagues that we make political speeches in the morning on Tuesdays and Wednesdays according to the regulations, and when we discuss the laws, we're speaking out for the content of these laws. Otherwise, according to the requirements of the Rules, I will have to interrupt your speeches. Please, Your Honor, one minute, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u92	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, let's go back to protecting the animal world. Indeed, not only did civilization sink into the animal world but, frankly, our country where we live has been hit by both free use of chemistry and permissiveness and so forth. And really, it's just a huge threat. And I'm just asking the Party of Regions, I know they're not ready to vote, but believe me, this law will still be passed and you'll be forbidden to shoot in those places and catch in those places where it's all forbidden. Because of this "Fatherland" hotly supports this bill -- we're going to give back all the votes we have here today. But I have some suspicion that Mikola Tomenko, a colleague of mine, may know very well what an electric car, a loop, a crossbow, a crossbow. How does he know that? That's very interesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, please consider these questions in the working order. I'm addressing the people's deputies. Please take your seats. The Secretariat would like, traditionally, to make an announcement for those who went to work outside the conference room in the classroom so that they could return to the session room and make a decision. I see Mikola Tomenko is asking for one minute as the author of the law for a closing statement. Please, while national deputies sit in their seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, we now have a unique opportunity, and a colleague from the Party of Regions, I mean those left behind in the party and factions, to join our work. Because, unfortunately, during the Janukovitch presidency, sad stories were about how his hunting club hunted all animals and people, unfortunately, throughout Ukraine. Today, we can fix the situation, start making arrangements so that we don't have elite hunters and elite fishermen who can do anything in the territory. So today we have to transfer fishing and hunting to a civilized race, we should have no chosen ones, we should not have a mountain in every area that has been shaped. So I think it's a principle and a political issue. For people, we need to show that we protect the environment, protect the animal and plant world, in independence from the party sign. And in the second reading, please, we are ready to correct any positions, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this, we've understood the position. I ask fellow members of the national parliament to sit in their places of employment so that a successful decision can be made. Please refer to the Supreme Council for support in the first reading, that is, adoption as a basis for the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on animal protection (registration No. 4004). Please, Your Honor, vote on the basis. [[11:47:19]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the authors of the next Law (registration number 2277) request that his consideration be postponed so that some of his positions can be clarified. And we're going to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance on the Promotion of the Work of Persons with Disabilities. The registration number of this project is 1006. I invite the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Suškevitch Valeri Mikhajlovich. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u96	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. National Deputy Suškević, Fatherskina faction, Ukrainian National Assembly of Disabled People. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The aim of the bill was to minimize discrimination against persons with disabilities because of their employment opportunities. The main purpose of the bill is to stimulate the work of persons with disabilities and minimize these terrible consequences, the negative consequences of pension reform. To this end, I propose to amend the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. And to predict, first of all, that the disabled of the second group, the disability pension, is assigned to the retirement age, including during the continuation of their employment. Dear colleagues, the disabled has earned not only his disability but also his employment pension, and he is not paid in full if he is working. This is a totally misunderstood norm for people with disabilities who have earned a pension. And the second. It is proposed that pensioners from the first group of persons with disabilities receive pensions due to a change in living minimum from the date of the establishment of a new living minimum for those who have lost their jobs, regardless of the fact that they are working. Now, the situation is this, dear fellows, if the disabled person is working, his subsistence minimum is not counted for retirement. That is, a person with disabilities is confined to the right to work, and his pension benefits are minimized for working. To be honest, the wild legislative norm that was once established and, by the way, the smallest pension payment to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u97	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u98	Today, the smallest pension income that a disabled person receives is 949 dollars. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Work recommends that the project be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also supports, proposes to take the basis. And our committee, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, is proposing to support this bill. Friends, I'm asking you to support working people with disabilities who today, in the face of problems of financing social pay, want to work for the country, want to be self-sufficient and not limited to rights. Please support the disabled, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss, or will we still vote now? There's a need. Please sign up for the discussion. The word is given to the National Deputy of Ponomarov, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u100	Please pass the word Morozenko Evgenia Vadimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u101	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u102	Hello, 28th District, Dnepropetrovsk, Morozenko. Dear colleagues! I would like to say that this law has been considered by the Committee, the Committee supports it. There is indeed a discriminatory norm, and it is not at all clear how it has proved to be in law. This law is being amended today. In addition, there has been a change in the size of the retirement work, with the appointment of a pension, which also has a very important and positive impact on the most unprotected category of our citizens, our people with disabilities. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions will support, we ask everyone to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, the Kudra People's Deputy, the Company of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u104	Vladimir Kudra, Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradst. Dear colleagues! As a committee member, I invite you to support this draft decision. Because it's one of the few that we're currently looking at, and we're actually looking at a draft decision, where we take care of people specifically, not animals, etc. So I invite you all to support this draft decision that really supports the people who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u105	Please, People's Deputy, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u106	Valérie Paccan, impact faction. Please pass the word to Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u107	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u108	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. The strike faction clearly supports this initiative, because it's not just about changing pension legislation, but it's about the fact that the strike faction didn't once speak at the Supreme Council meetings, and it's our ideological base, it's about introducing justice in the pension system. Indeed, when there are different principles and pensions for different categories of citizens, and the payment of these pensions is extremely indignant to all society. And in this case, we're taking a small step for people with disabilities in a category, but we're still taking a step towards a just pension system. But in our view, in the view of the impact faction, we can't stop at that, and we have to move on. The pension system needs to be further reformed from the point of view of order and the creation of the only principles of pension accounting. There can't be two different pension systems for today: one for ordinary people, one for officials. This cannot be the case when an ordinary person today is paid a pension of 45 percent of his salary and officials, high-ranking workers, Ukrainian national deputies, and other categories of citizens – 80 percent of his salary. So impact consistently insists that we should gradually move on to the only principles of retirement. The very justice of the pension system will give impetus to its development, and the justice of the pension system will also lead to legalization of the shadowy employment and the shadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u109	National MP Sabi, Freedom faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u110	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u111	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u112	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support this bill. We are well aware of the importance of solving this issue because people who, in some circumstances or in some circumstances, are partially or completely out of work are actually excluded from our society. Ukraine is not yet ready to fully provide opportunities for people with limited capabilities or special needs for full integration into society. And at least by these factors, at least by being able to promote the work of people with disabilities, we have to solve this issue in part at this stage. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Association has a number of proposals for these bills, as well as its own initiatives to address people with special needs. Even if we figure this out, there's actually a totally discriminatory situation where for the first-group disabled, if the first-group disabled is working, then at the moment the living minimum is changing, his pension is not increasing, and if he's not working, he's increasing. So we're pushing away people who, with a meager disability pension, are trying to integrate themselves into society, solve their own issues. If the state is unable to provide people with disabilities with an adequate level of maintenance, let us at least allow them to work in parallel, and notice, and pay the only social contribution, that is, by participating in the social needs of the state. So the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, one minute at a time. National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, the point is that this bill certainly needs to be supported, but only on the first reading. And we, Valery Mikhailovich, to the honorable, our committee, in our conclusions, have written down proposals that must be corrected, otherwise this bill will not work. And in general, I think that populism and speculative demagogies in the adoption of social policy bills are unacceptable. Arseny Yatsenuk, Head of the Supreme Council, sent such a letter to the committees, according to Rule 90. 91, I don't think a bill of social policy that has no financial and economic justification is necessary at all. But as for the Wallery Mikhailovich bill, well, aside from the lack of justification, we'll find it, and another thing -- it changes the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, and it speaks of non-discrimination. There is no such problem in this law as discrimination on the grounds of disability. Therefore, the amendments to the Criminal Code on non-discrimination should be correct. But it's in the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, we have not long since fought all to meet the requirements of the European Union's European Commission for the adoption of anti-discrimination legislation. In the sense of many anti-discrimination legislation, it was the fight against the oppression of certain minorities, non-traditionals and so on. In fact, discrimination is what every day is. And the fact that colleague Suškević, as usual, raised the right question, asked the right question about anti-discrimination policy on disabled people, the only thing I would advise my colleagues, the word "disability" is not used at all, using "restricted people", not "disabled people." And what he asked that question, I think it should be approved, because, otherwise, it's all going to be talk that depends on the month of the seat. Because this is where people wave their hands, who, when they were in opposition, said quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, let's make a decision right now, because we have 12 hours, I see the MPs want to break up. Calm down! Calm down! I'm begging you, colleagues! I'll remind you that we're discussing a reduced procedure. I'm giving a lot of extra speakers anyway. Each faction has one minute to perform in case they are not recorded. Please, Your Honor. National Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! And Mr. Dry! Before you speak under the law, please read the law under which you prepared the report. You came forward on my next bill, talking about what I said about employment. I'm just asking everyone to read the reports you're making by law. Shameless not reading the order of the day, performing. That's the first one. And secondly, Alexander Valentine's Day, I have a request: on this bill before the second reading, to shorten the procedure, because people want the country's criticism in these circumstances, so that we can adopt this bill as a whole at the next session of our Parliament. Therefore, the request to shorten, vote in favour of the Committee’s summary procedure. Thank you. Please support disabled workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, in order for us to make a short decision, we must first take it as a basis. That's why I'm voting. Please be seated in your workplaces of all national deputies. And I would like to support, on the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance on the Promotion of the Work of Persons with Disabilities, registration No. 1006. Please, dear fellows, in the first reading, accept the basic. [[12:01:59]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. I ask the leaders of the MP factions, the coalitions, to come to the Cabinet of the Supreme Council, and please come to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u120	Colleagues, please sit on your work. The secretariat would like to make an announcement to all members of the national parliament that the recess is over and that we should return to the session room. I think that, colleagues, we will even make a proposal to the Parliamentary Secretariat that when the break is over, we will close the parliamentary buffet. Right? To avoid being tempted in a timely way, at the expense of working hours, to rest in a buffet. So, dear colleagues, I ask the faction leaders once again to work with their colleagues so that they can come to the hall at the proper time. Every time we have the same story, the same problems. I would like to remind you that we are now starting to consider the next draft of the Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, which is also reported by the National Deputy, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, Suškevitch Valeriy Mihajlovich. Please. I remind you, we're working on a reduced procedure, and during this time, I'm asking you to make an announcement so that the MPs will be drawn to the hall. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u121	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I very much hope that the people's deputies will now come to the hall and support the bill concerning the rights of citizens of Ukraine with disabilities. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, I have a request for you, I said that the previous bill, 1106, should be voted in favour of a reduced procedure for dealing with the problems of employment of people with disabilities and encouraging their work. Just vote so we can get to that session and adopt that bill in a second reading. This is a request to immediately thereafter. And now, dear friends, dear colleagues, I am addressing you on Bill No. 3640, which I have before me in my time of criminal power. And so far no one has considered it. This is about the rights of people with disabilities and the elimination of discrimination in Ukrainian legislation in relation to people with disabilities. I want to remind you that on December 16, 2009, the Supreme Council, our Ukrainian Parliament, ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And article 5 of this convention states that all member states prohibit any discrimination on the basis of disability and guarantee disabled people equal and effective legal protection against discrimination on any ground. This is recorded in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ratified by the Ukrainian Parliament. It was to meet the requirements of this international standard that my bill, along with my fellow national deputy, then Arsenius Yatsenuk, that we provided for legislation to amend article 161.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u122	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u123	Article 161 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code stipulates that discrimination on the basis of a sign of disability entails an appropriate responsibility. And today this article foresees responsibility for anything that is marked by the race of an article, ethnic, social origin. What is now recorded in international legal instruments that do not show discrimination by virtue of disability is not recorded. And for the post-Radians country, which, unfortunately, still remains, Ukraine, for some reasons, we need to be a European country, we need to understand the rights and opportunities of citizens with disabilities. That's what I'm talking about all the years I've been in Parliament, and I'm trying to make it in the current national legislation. I would like to ask my dear friends that this bill, which will for the first time in Ukrainian legislation, states that there is no discrimination on the basis of disability, that it was voted in the Ukrainian Parliament today. I want to say that the bill clearly establishes that the limitation of rights on the basis of disability is a responsibility. And that disability as a sign of discrimination should not be hidden by other signs as it was in the past. And unfortunately, both the Presidency of Yanukovic and the Government of Azarov did not give me the opportunity to vote on this rule in the Ukrainian Parliament. I hope that the Ukrainian Parliament will be aware of its responsibility to the electorate by adjusting to the elections in the new cabinet. About three million Ukrainian citizens expect us to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. The word is given to the national deputy Guzenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u125	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Momot Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u126	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u127	Alexander Momot, Dnipropetrovsk, 27th District. Dear Alexander Valentine’s Day, distinguished colleagues, Valery Mikhailovich had such an exciting performance. And indeed, the disabled in our country are very limited. They have limited access to infrastructure, limited access to public food facilities, and so on and so forth. And this law should be just the first step towards equal opportunities for people with limited physical disabilities. I therefore propose to accept this bill as a basis and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u128	Thank you. Please, the people's deputy of the Marches.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u129	Please pass the word to Edward Leon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u130	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u131	Edward Leonov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Crimea, Sevastopol. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! This bill raises a very important subject. The theme, first of all, is to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with European legislation. And secondly, this bill reflects, in fact, a huge problem, a huge problem, a huge problem of separation from the lice, post-Soviet mentality, when we should allow people with disabilities to fully feel in our society. Even the very term "disability" is ineffective, that is, the person who is invalid must be replaced by "person with disabilities" or "person with special needs." Even in this text of the law, unfortunately, something else needs to be changed, and first of all, at the level of the Ministry of Justice, we need to move away from disgraceful practices when the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was not translated from one of the world’s languages, from European languages, but was simply categorized from the Russian version. And so our people with disabilities became disabled. What does that mean? This means that children with disabilities are not protected by this convention in Ukraine. They're protecting the world, and we don't have protection. Why? And because only a person who has reached the age of 18. Thus, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which protects all people with disabilities around the world, in Ukraine, because the Ministry of Justice was polished, saved once or without purpose, used money instead of translating from English, they simply did.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u132	I've got the position. Please, National Deputy Dorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u133	Please pass on the word of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u134	He's giving the word to the National Deputy of Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are amending two laws: the Act on Fundamental Principles for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine and the Criminal Code of Ukraine. But despite the fact that we are amending the laws of direct action, I am absolutely convinced that in the bill of amendments proposed, they are actually at the level of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens. What is more, I would like to stress once again, this information has already sounded, that it is about bringing our legislation into line with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which, by the way, is once again being ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will surely vote in favour of the bill. What's more, in Ukraine 2.7 million citizens of Ukraine, it's actually every 17 citizens of Ukraine, and they need our support. What has been done in recent years in this regard and in the way of overcoming indifference, in the form of material support, in support of social organizations of persons with disabilities, but we still have a great deal to do. So once again, I stress that the faction of the Company of Ukraine is going to vote in favour of this bill. And there's one more thing I want to say when I take this opportunity. I very much ask you, Alexander Valentine's Day, and the people who are in the Supreme Council's apparatus, who form the agenda for every week, yet the issue of social protection is more actively presented in order of the day. To say that there are no legal precepts is not true. Only our committee, the Committee on Social Policy and Work has prepared 59 drafts to address this issue. So once again, I stress that these issues need to be presented more actively in the order of the Supreme Council of the day. And specifically, Alexander Valentine's Day, I insist that tomorrow's agenda in the chapter "Other Readings" is set out to be a bill of 2547, ready for a year and should be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u136	National MP Pober, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Paul Rosenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u138	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u139	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Alexander Valentinovich, there is an immediate suggestion to go back to the previous bill and to vote on it in a simplified way, a very important bill applies to disabled people. And this bill is a proposal to vote, I know that there is an appropriate committee decision, on the basis and in general. In fact, the bill is quite short, but on the other hand quite clear and clear, and it speaks of the need to fight, seriously combat discrimination in Ukraine, including with regard to people with disabilities, the problems of people with disabilities and the problems of people with disabilities, including those with limited physical capacity. And there's actually an offer, maybe Valery Mikhailovich, let's think about it and make specific proposals, let's talk about how Ukraine made a commitment. Ukraine ratified an appropriate convention, so it may be time for Parliament to listen to what was actually done in Ukraine during this time? Because it's only in my memory that you remember in 2005-2010 that there were at least three Presidential decrees that each of them spoke of the need to create a barrier-free environment in Ukraine, in the broad sense of that word, from the inadequacy of education, from the recklessness of the individual institution, including the physical inadequacy of a particular institution. I mean, I think it's time for us to talk seriously about this question, today's new authority, by the way, I want to say that in Kiev the new mayor Vitaly Klitschko also spoke in his pre-election program we're going to do what gradually Kiev is turning into a barrier-free environment for people with.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u140	Allow me to finish the speech. Finish the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u141	I'm done. To gradually become the European capital and the European capital, first and foremost, to treat people with limited physical capacity. And creating a barrier - free environment primarily, including in Kiev. That's why the strike faction supports the bill and proposes to vote on it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u142	Please, one minute, Alexander Kugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u143	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Very quickly to the first and second bills. And I think we need to work properly on the second reading, because there are warnings that I don't accept. For example, I don't see why in Ukrainian legislation government institutions don't answer and aren't interested in hiring people with disabilities. Why are only commercial structures fined? That no ministry, no government service, can hire a disabled person? I think that, according to the Constitution, this should be, for example, a demonstration of the state's work in ensuring the work of the disabled. Secondly, according to Ukrainian legislation, the first job should be to find a disabled person himself. I don't see it either, because today in Ukraine there is no possibility of a disabled person going to any firm, a bank, a factory to offer himself if he even has a very good professional level. And that's why I'm addressing both Mr. Suškević and Mr. Zibenk, that's the most important thing to look at the state's approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u144	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u145	review the state-owned approach to persons with disabilities. And I also point out that two years ago, I registered a bill that envisions changes in the employment of people with disabilities and changes in the work of MSEC is a commission that examines disability every year and takes terrible bribes. Please go back to them and make a real reform for the disabled, and we support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Suhi, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues! After consulting Mr. Ivankevich, Deputy Minister of Social Policy, I propose this bill of 3640, which I have already made a warning, to accept as a whole, as a basis and as a whole. Because he doesn't need additional resources. And I would like to draw your attention to this: Why does this problem arise? Because the main work document of KZOTI, which was adopted in December 1971, was not and was not considered to be discrimination on the basis of disability. However, a draft of the Labour Code has been awaiting consideration in the session hall since 2003. By the way, Ukraine is the only, last, former, allied republic to live in a socio-working relationship in December 1971. And in the labor project of the Labour Code, such things are foreseen. Thus, the introduction of increased criminal responsibility by signs of disability discrimination is timely. I propose to adopt this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. I'd like the secretariat to make another announcement. I'm sorry. For all the deputies to approach the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, we are dealing with people with special needs. They are special people, and they show us how to love life, how to fight for life. By the way, there is also a wonderful person among us, Mr. Suškević, the Ukrainian Hero, who, by the way, regularly goes to work, is very active in legislative activities. People with disabilities are like us, but they are in difficult circumstances, and they should have the same rights as us. Therefore, discrimination on the basis of a sign of disability should be a criminal responsibility. And in that sense, this bill is very important. The imposition of criminal responsibility for violations of the equal rights of citizens, depending on their racial, national, religious, disability and other characteristics, is a necessary step to ensure that individuals are protected from and are already mutilated. On them and without them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u150	Please, Your Honor, it's very good that this issue is being discussed so actively by the MPs. Let me give you the opportunity to speak to those who raised their hand. National MP Kartashov, please. Ponomariov, I'm sorry. The Ponomarov People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u151	Good law. Of course, we are very well concerned about our disabled people. He's going to take action somewhere in a while. Alexander Valentinović, I am addressing you as a disabled person in the town of Snowy today, who has not received a penny in his account in eight days. There is nothing to buy for the people, ordinary water, there is a humanitarian disaster not only for the disabled but also for other social benefits and budgets. You made this town a hostage twice, once you put it in there, you let the armed men in there, and the second time you punish him for what. There is nothing worse than the social security situation in other cities in the Donetsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u152	In order to normalize the situation, we need to unite the efforts of all national deputies and residents of the region, including Lugansk, Donetsk, in the fight against terrorism, separatism, and so forth, to expel terrorists and criminals outside our country. And that's where I'm going to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then all the cities will function normally both in Lugansk and in the Donetsk region. Dear colleagues, please calm down. National MP Kirilenko Viacheslav and we will be risking discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u153	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. First of all, I am grateful to Valery Mikhailovich Suškević for introducing this bill, as well as for the dozens of others he has introduced. And I suggest that we don't use the term "disability" in Parliament anymore, there are no people with disabilities, there are people with limited physical capacity or even more proper terms: people with special needs. That's what European legislation says, and these are people who are better than we are with you, because they live and fight every day, including those conditions that the state has not created for them. That's why we don't have discrimination by law, but we do have actual discrimination, restrictions on movement, no barriers to transport, especially the railway. And in small towns, in villages, as my colleague Catherinechuk points out, there is no such thing. Plus, there's no discrimination in employment, although there's no law. And now criminal responsibility for discrimination is being introduced. "Paternity" suggests, on the basis of the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u154	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, please sit in your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'm talking to my colleagues from our "North European Ukraine" and let's take a vote right now, and the meeting will be held a little bit later. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal and the committee of profile, and the people's speakers, by voting on a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislation on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities (registration number 3640) as a basis and as a whole. Please, Your Honor, support the offer. [[13:01:38]] For 227 Decision taken. The 227 people's deputies voted in favour. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. By factions, please, by factions. Parenthood – 51, Regions – 29, 29 – Impact, Economic Development – 24, 18 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 32, 20 – Company, non-factional – 24. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal by the committee headed by Valeriy Mihajlovich to support the initiative that the Law 1106, which we adopted in the first reading, should be prepared in a simplified manner. Remember, it's about stimulating the work of people with disabilities. Please, Your Honor, support the proposal: a reduced procedure to prepare Bill 1106 for second reading. Please vote. [[13:02:45]] For 229 Decision taken. Please allow one minute to speak to the head of the Suškević Valery Mikhajlovich Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u155	I thank you, my dear colleagues, my dear friends, for supporting the two bills concerning the rights of people with disabilities. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, on behalf of the Committee, on behalf of the National Assembly of Persons with Disabilities, I now ask the government not to suspend the National Plan of Action to address the problems of persons with disabilities. He's a state-of-the-art program today, and he's offering to stop him. I ask and appeal to the vote for what we have adopted today, yet do not stop the national action plan on addressing the problems of persons with disabilities, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Orders projects that are being submitted to your consideration. Please, Your Honor. Draft Decision on Ukraine's enforcement of paragraph 9 of the European Court of Human Rights decision in Alexander Volkov v. Ukraine. You know, we've done this a number of times before, and unfortunately, Parliament hasn't been able to make a decision. Please, Your Honor, your opinion. Can we consider these projects without discussion? Can we? We can. Before voting, let's give the authors two minutes, in two minutes, an opportunity to comment so that we can make a conscious decision. Turn on the microphone, please, National Deputy Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u157	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues. On January 9, 2013, the European Court of Human Rights announced its decision in the "Wolkov v. Ukraine" case. It's absolutely murderous for the Ukrainian judicial system, in terms of criticism and the systemic problems that the European Court of Justice has revealed in this decision. Regrettably, so far this decision has not been implemented, and in paragraph 9 of this judgment, the European Court of Justice has made it clear that Ukraine is obliged to reinstate, in the shortest possible time, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, who is illegally dismissed, Alexander Volkova in office. This decision is the exclusive competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and no one else can make that decision. Regardless of the fact that the European Court of Human Rights observed to the Supreme Council a year and a half ago that we are obliged to carry out this decision and reinstate Alexander Volkov in his office, as the Chief of Staff rightly pointed out, several times the Supreme Council has not taken this decision for absolutely incomprehensible reasons. I have the impression, Alexander Valentinovich, that today this decision may not be made, including the previous vote, and seeing the mood in the hall. That's why I'd like to ask you this today. the decision to postpone. It is very important in terms of establishing justice, it is very important in terms of restoring the image of Ukraine as a state that executes the judgment of the European Court of Justice. And the repeated rejection of this ruling, or a similar ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will simply humiliate Ukraine in the eyes of those who observe how the Ukrainian State implements the rulings of the European Court. So it may be possible to make a signal vote, but I have the impression that, unfortunately, the decision will not be made today, so I would ask for a postponement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u158	Please. One minute, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, Leonid Jemetz, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to report that on the Committee on the Rule of Law and Judiciality, the matter has been considered and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the decision be taken both on the basis and as a whole at once. Thank you. That's all the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u160	Please. People's MP Filipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u161	Dear head, Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. When we talk about the ruling of the European Court of Justice in the Volks v. Ukraine case, I want to make one point: this is really not what Ukraine is doing. And when we talk about measures of an individual nature. Unfortunately, we forget that paragraphs 199-202 of Ukraine's judgements on the implementation of measures of a general nature that should address those shortcomings in Ukrainian legislation and in the Constitution that have led us to today's decision. It is meant that the European Court of Human Rights obliged Ukraine to change the system of legislation relating to the formation of the Supreme Council of Justice. It's because there were national deputies in the High Council of Justice who then made decisions in the Supreme Council, which, unfortunately, we have again national deputies in the High Council of Justice, and that's why the decision in the case of "Wolves Against Ukraine" is not being implemented. And I think that the bill on amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which I think the President will introduce, he will fix it, and finally the Justice Council will work for the judges who will release the judges themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u162	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, let's consult. There was an invitation for the People's Deputy Vlasenka to conduct a signal vote. Because, in fact, I see that there are not enough people in the room right now for unobjective reasons. Let's have another minute before the vote. Please turn on the microphone of Vlasenko Sergija Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u163	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. It's just that the previous speaker did something to distort the situation at all. Indeed, the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Volkov case is divided into two parts that are totally unrelated. Indeed, the Ukrainian State is under an obligation to take general measures, to change legislation. But this is in no way affected by the Ukrainian State’s obligation to reinstate Alexander Volkov in office under paragraph 9 of this decision. As for the composition of the High Council of Justice, a colleague is either ignorant or knowingly distorts the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights lists 3 names of natural persons who, regardless of their status, violated the European Convention on Human Rights. This is Sergei Kiwalov, Mr. Kolesnicko, a friend of the previous speaker, and another friend of the previous speaker, Rinat Kuzmin, the Attorney General's First Deputy. So it's not about any, you know, systemic issues involving the participation of national deputies in the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, let's make a signal vote so that we don't really compromise Parliament in front of the European community. Please take your seats. And let's signal Parliament's readiness now, based on the number of national MPs present, to make a decision on this issue. Please turn on the signal vote. Please be sure to support the position on this issue. [[13:10:23]] For-157. Dear colleagues, I am not ready for Parliament to address this issue. Let's get him to the next meeting. Please, the People's Deputies of Matvienkov on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u165	Matvienkov, Mariupol, faction of regions. Dear Alexander Valentinović, this is a vote of signal that we have now conducted and that consideration of this issue must be a signal to all of us. Why? Because the questions raised in the consideration of this matter, in particular not the personal vote of the deputies, which was the basis for the decision, should be a very serious signal to all of us. What is happening to us today is unfortunately, unfortunately, in the room: introduction by vote, without preliminary consideration on the committees, of the vote. When we're in the mind of making some changes in the law and then making some changes in the law. All of this will have its negative results someday. You can get angry today, you can't get upset, but I think we're talking about real things. Because the consequences can be far more serious than the Volkov ruling under many of the laws we are adopting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I think Parliament is carefully considering all the laws. There is an opportunity for everyone to speak during the discussion. And today we have not adopted any law by vote or amendment. As for the personal vote, no comment that there was a violation of the personal vote in the room, I didn't get it. So let's not make general statements, let's make specific remarks when you have them. Dear colleagues, please consider the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Moratorium for the Closure of Public Education Institutions of State and Municipal Property. By summary procedure or without discussion, respected colleagues, how? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please support the discussion of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:12:49]] For-163 It's a procedural decision, it's accepted. Please, Bogdan Benjuk is ready to report this question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u167	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to draft a decree establishing a moratorium on the closure of public educational institutions of state and municipal property. Dear colleagues, in recent years, education, as well as medicine, has suffered from reorganization and destructive reforms. To understand the situation, please provide such information. The largest number of schools was closed between 2010 and 2013. The number of schools decreased from 20.6 thousand to 19.7 thousand. Every year, between 200 and 300 institutions of secondary education disappear, and this trend is, unfortunately, ongoing. Today, 25,000 schools are being trained from 10, and I'm paying attention to 10 to 100 children, and they're already closing candidates. We can't stay away from such a screaming problem, it needs an emergency solution. In view of the fact that the draft decree has been submitted to Parliament for a year but has not been brought to its attention, I suggest that it be applied to the transcript. Replace the words "admission of the State Budget for 2014" with the words "implementation of the State Budget for 2014" with the words "implementation of the State Budget for 2015" of moratoriums on the closure of public educational institutions of state and municipal ownership." Also, the words "to analyze the implementation of the State Bus Programme and to anticipate an increase in funding for the State budget for 2014" in the words "to analyze the implementation of the State Bus Programme and to predict it in the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u168	Allows you to finish the speech
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u169	and anticipate an increase in funding for the State budget for 2015." In view of the foregoing, I would like to ask you, honourable deputies, honourable colleagues, to support the adoption of the draft Order with the stated right on the ground and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, from the committee, the head of the lily committee, Mikhailovna Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! We've been on this committee for a year now, and that's why we're backing up those changes that have now been made by one of the co-authors under the transcript. And we also want to point out that this decree was triggered by thoughtless decisions of the authorities in the previous three years, when more than a thousand public educational institutions were closed. Today, local authorities can form a network of public educational institutions, using the possibility of changing their degree when it is necessary for high school students to be driven to better equipped schools, with more educational facilities, or at the very least in the absence of children, to suspend the temporary activity of a school. The idea of closing a facility in general is very radical and, in our opinion, totally unfounded. Because we're already in a similar situation with preschool schools, and we can't restore this network right now. Therefore, the committee supports this decision, requesting that it be adopted on a basis and with sound amendments as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for the speech. National MP Matthews, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will definitely support the stated decision, as the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has strongly opposed the closure of educational and medical institutions for all years in Parliament. During Soviet times, schools were not closed but were built and opened, so closing schools, especially in rural areas, must not be common sense. I want to draw attention to the fact that in every call, especially before the election, this card is played in love, closed or closed down. We're consistent, and we say we can't categorically close them. Therefore, we urge all of you to support this decision. Next. It's about closing schools, but it's very important. Paragraph 2 of this regulation states: to take immediate action to change the terms of the financing of public, educational and educational institutions of state and municipal property. Think, including the authors of the decree, you are voting with one hand in favour of making changes to the Ukrainian State Budget, by which you deprive the teacher of the right to an adequate salary, the right of the school to repair a school facility, the right of the school to buy some equipment for it, because the budget limit you voted for a secester does not allow it. And a very evil amendment, to which I would also like to draw your attention, allows the formulation of a temporary suspension of the institution. This wicked formulation cannot be written, for tomorrow the authorities of executive power will break through the knee the organs of local self - government and close these educational institutions. I'd like to remind you, including Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u174	Please let me finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u175	We need to support, however, that only by the law and decision of the territorial community can they be closed. And never go to support those bills about the level of filling the classes that were, the author I called, and we lobbied it in the last summons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u176	Please, People's Deputy Mirni, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u177	Please pass the word to Irina Pharion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Irina Farion, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The term "moratorium" originated in our legislative space just when an agent of the Russian Federation, Tobacco, led the strategically important development direction of our state, the Ministry of Education. And if, frankly, we continue to operate on that term, it will show that we have very serious problems in our development. On this occasion, it was the only way to stop the vacchanalia, which applied to secondary education, to predict the closure of villages mainly in rural areas. We know that closing schools in rural areas is the destruction of the village as a cultural center, and every village is the cradle of all of us. It is our job to preserve this culture because it is from this rural culture that we are living with you, tired of this consumer urbanism. That's why we were forced on the committee to consider this bill in this exact wording -- the moratorium. That's the first one. The other one. The previous reporter was talking about stupid things in Soviet times that relate to education. So the whole problem of Soviet times in the education system was that it destroyed and killed the content and quality of education, completely and completely exterminating the true meaning of it. I mean, mostly humanitarianism. It's about history, it's about language, it's about other fields of knowledge. So with the rights offered by Bogdan Benjuk and Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, there is a point to vote on this decision to make it impossible for us to close schools in any area for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u180	National MP Tomenko, Fatherland faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I will, of course, support the initiative of our colleagues. But what I'm going to say right now is that we're not solving a problem that's marked both in the solution and in the speeches, we're minimizing the complexity of the problem, or, let's say, the dangers and risks for 2015. To my deep conviction, the analysis of the situation shows that we should take at least a few serious steps, and other than those marked in the decision. And these bills, and I personally, were passed with my colleagues. The first problem, it's not a strategic one, but nevertheless, is the problem of ensuring the normal functioning of either the initial school level in rural areas with a small population, we need to make and finally vote on the bill that we discussed 10 times in the first and the second, on the change in class filling. We can go through a transition period to make four out of three children, and first class we can pick up if there are three children. So we're going to save another part of the school. The second position, my experience, and I didn't go to one school that discussed the possibility of closing it, suggests that we should have the law on. By the consent of the community to decipher, by the consent of the community in terms not of the village council or village council, but of the general assembly of the village. In theory, we can assume that when a situation arises, that when one child is in each class and obviously a child is in one class, we should go to a meeting with parents and children who want to prepare their children for schooling. And in that case, if there's absolute consensus, that's what the village councils will support, of course, it's going to have to be closed. But it may be kept as an extra-school facility so as not to close the premises, not to rob the premises, and so forth. That is why I support this decision. But we have to take the following steps here: make changes to the law that I said and think about the protection mechanism for children in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u182	Dear colleagues. People's Filipenko, Economic Development, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u183	Thank you, Mr. Head. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Indeed, this problem of closing down schools in rural areas is quite relevant and, at the very least, every senior in the rural area is obliged simply to support this decision and to express his position in the same way. What we're dealing with is that, for example, in a district where I was choosing, where 90 percent of the rural area, there are schools where there's no hot water, where there's no water at all in the school, where we have to go to the well, pick up water, and then take it to school and use it. And of course, a lot of the officials, using this unsatisfying state of rural schools, are trying to optimize and, let's say, scale up these schools. Since there is a village council and perhaps a few villages, there is a large school in one village, and there is only a first - degree school in another village. Of course, it is easier for an official to close and show that a school bus is going to drive. But there is a school bus today, and tomorrow there is no solarium. Today there's a school bus, and tomorrow it's broken. Or a school bus is just on paper and, in fact, children are simply deprived of their education rights. We really need to figure out in this case, conduct a full review of all the schools that were closed to whether these kids get proper education from these schools, or whether they get the right quality. At the right level, they're being raised, whether they're actually taking buses to these schools, or whether it was just done to close the school, and the kids weren't getting an education. At the same time, our parliamentary group is also asking to take into account the aspect of the decision taken in 2013 before the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year. And that's why we need to take into account all the thoughts that the authors of the bill and the committee's report. Thank you. We will support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, after a minute, they ask members of groups who have not been able to sign up. Please, National Deputy Momot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u185	Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, I support both the authors and those who spoke to me. Of course, rural schools need to be protected, rural education needs to be developed, although we need to understand that we do not go into our diocese a little bit, it is a matter of local self-government, local authorities. And in accepting this decision, we need to understand that the problem of rural areas -- I graduated from rural school, my mother was a teacher in rural school, I understand this problem very well -- and I want to say that 7 students per teacher and four classes are not the quality of education that should be in a country that is going to Europe. So this is just the first step. We need to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u186	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u187	..to develop the program and the school bus, not just as we did before the elections, but there should be a government program that will make rural education accessible and quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I see a lot of hands. An important question, of course, for all. Now, I saw. Toncharov, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinović, I appeal to the parliamentarians on behalf of the people of Gorlovka, and especially the village of Ozeryanovka, to support this project, especially with regard to the funding for the next year of the School Bus programme. Children who attend 58 schools live between 7 and 15 kilometers [7 and 15 km] away, and the bus that carried them has long been out of service. I therefore ask the Ministry of Education to plan, including a bus to the village of Ozeryanovka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u190	Please. People's MP, Muggles.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to say that this is a very difficult thing because on one side of the schools that were closed as a result of optimization, today they're already bombarded, distraught, there's no heat left on the individual, there's no heat left on the individual side, there's no electricity out there, there's no electricity out there. On the other hand, I think we should also think about the competitiveness of our children who graduate from rural schools. Because a teacher or a teacher who reads 6 to 7 subjects says that children will have, in order for knowledge, they will not be competitive in the education market when they make special progress. That's why we think that the most meaningful talk was by Mikli Vladimirovich Tomenka, who said that we should cut down on the village level, close schools, and create, maybe bring together the preschools.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u192	Let me finish, let me speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u193	Bringing together younger classes and preschoolers, and already older classes to work in villages where there are roads where buses are, because in the summer it is still possible, and in the winter it is practically possible for children to go to school. That's why we're here to shorten and support the bill for now, but to give the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance a mandate to provide buses and especially roads in these villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u194	Thank you. People's Deputy Kaplan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u195	Honorable National Deputies, high - ranking teachers, parents of those children who attend school. There is so much garbage, empty talk, and nothing to be provided around this discussion. I think, and this is the position of our political power, we have to determine in principle for ourselves: school, college, kindergarten, this is the coordinate system in which we build our new state. So I repeat a thousand times: our best International Monetary Fund is the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. We must arrest all those who have robbed, including the teachers. We have to return billions, tens of billions of euros that have been exported abroad. We are the fifth country in the world to export money abroad. And as for school buses. Take the buses to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Presidential Administration, district councils and administrations, and give it to the children to drive. There's a lot more to it than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u196	I see. National Deputy Bezbach, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u197	Alexander Valentinovich, thank you so much. A very painful question has been raised today. I talked to the specialists. Indeed, I think it would be right to put this issue to local authorities. They're determined. Next. That's the concept. There's a lot of talk about gardens today. And there are gardens that are now under the authority. This is because there is no room today, big queues, but the orchards are not being used by appointment! In particular, the Transnistrian Railway. And I'm surprised by the new power that supports them today and doesn't put orchards on local levels to keep children from standing in line! There have already been statements on this issue. And I think it would be right to accept the exact funding to rebuild these gardens, and to remove the tension on the line! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! We discussed the question. The national MP, Labazük, asks 1 minute as the author of the project. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! There was much discussion around the issue. And there really were many fitting amendments, proposals. I want to address all of you. I think you understand how important this problem is and you don't have to politicize it today or try to create some kind of populism around it. Indeed, there were sound suggestions and ideas that the bill was introduced in 2013 and needed to be amended by 2014. But today we have the situation. And if we're going to say that we need quality education, and in those schools where 5 or 6 children are taught, or 1 child in the classroom, it's impossible, maybe so. But until we do 100 percent of the school bus program, until we repair the roads, we don't provide jobs for teachers who cut short in schools, we don't have the moral right to shut down schools and talk about better and better education in schools where children are transferred. So I ask you all unanimously, but as I look into the hall and unfortunately, very few national deputies are in place today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u200	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u201	And the representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists, and the Strike, all of you unanimously support this problem. I am convinced that not only the majority MPs are concerned, but also all the people who live in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this in detail. I ask that we take note of the amendments reported by the national deputy Benjuk. This is because we're introducing the moratorium into the adoption of the budget not in 2014, because it was adopted in 2015, it's an important position. And other comments that were highlighted during the reporter’s presentation. Therefore, respectable colleagues are offered to accept with amendments as a basis and as a whole. So I take it, dear colleagues? Yes. So I regret the only thing, you know, about the fact that there's no representative of the Ministry of Education. Although he was obliged to inform us about this problem, he was Deputy Minister Polyanski. And I don't see anyone from the Ministry of Education to be able to hear and feel the format that the Ministry of Education is now offering in this very important issue for the whole country. So, with the amendments I've been talking about, I'd like to ask you to make a decision on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[13:37:20]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. Please show the factions. "Fatherhood" – 59, 26-regions, "SHOCK" – 31, 28 – "Economic development", "North European Ukraine" – 15, 34 – "Freedom", The Company – 23, 29 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, next question. There is a suggestion that we accept it without discussion. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary state, ways and prospects for reform in the area of health care in Ukraine." No objection, dear colleagues, without discussion? Discussing Is a Desire? Colleagues, well, I don't know, there's a need to discuss issues. I don’t think so. Health care is important. Let's give the committee's head two minutes, Aunt Dmitry's lady, for information on this issue, and let's be clear. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u203	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Supreme Council Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations 3308. Let me remind you that these hearings took place on June 5, last year, more than a year ago. Regrettably, the consideration of the recommendations was carried over several times, and the Supreme Council has finally found an opportunity to consider them. Despite the considerable period of time that has elapsed since the hearings were held, all the recommendations proposed in the appendix to the regulation remain extremely, very relevant. I also feel that it is necessary to stress that the committee has already considered practically all the proposals made by today’s Minister of Health, the Ministry. The proposed editorial board was approved at the meeting of the Committee on March 27, 2014, and agreed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority without notice. In this regard, the committee proposes to adopt the proposed draft Decree on second reading and in general. At the same time, I ask the Supreme Council, under the transcript, to accept the introduction of two purely technical amendments to the text of the recommendations. First. In Amendment 14 line forty-six on page nine of the 2014 table, replace by figures 2015. Because this is about the formation of the state budget for the next year. And the second. In amendment 15, line fifty on the table, please replace the words "by 1 June 2014" with the words "by 1 September 2014". The authors of this decree are the national deputies of Baccheyev, Ilik, Spirina, Billowol, Helevay, Dach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u204	I see. Dear colleagues, taking into account the comments, more faithfully, amendments to the committee. Please, thank you. You can sit on the committee's head. One minute, turn on Adam Martinyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u205	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Ukrainian Company. First of all, I would like to say that my colleague Spirin has withdrawn his signature under this draft decree. And the next. Most of the time, it says absolutely everything right about the state of our health. But the faction, and I call on others, look closely. Regrettably, the main purpose of these recommendations is to: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine strengthen its monitoring of the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the procedure for reforming the health system in Winnitsky, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk oblasts and the city of Kiev" and to ensure the systematic generalization of acquired experience." So the whole point of this recommendation is that you give medical reform in full measure. I think we all understand how the population feels about medical reform, and we can't support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, let's define a way of voting in support of the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "Contemporary state, ways and prospects for reform in the area of health." Registration number, I recall, of this decree 3308. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote on acceptance as a basis and in general, please vote. [[13:42:32]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Please, Your Honor, the next question is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on the situation of young people in Ukraine on "Youth Participation in Social Life: Economic Activity". Can we vote? We can. In general, on the basis and, in general, on the whole. Please, Your Honor, support the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Youth Situation in Ukraine. Please support the total of 4,928. [[13:43:13]] For 228 Decision taken. And the next question, your honorary colleagues, is the registration number 2252: a draft decree approving the position on the adaptation of journalists and technical staff to the media at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Accreditation, excuse me, non-adaptation, journalists are adapted, but not all accredited, I understand. Colleagues, under a reduced procedure, so I understand we're going to consider it? Let's give the reporter two minutes and make a decision. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich Derevyanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u207	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Journalists are now accredited on the basis of a position approved by the Chief of the Supreme Council in the past. After that, we had adopted the Information Act, which requires that this position was approved by the subject of authority. In fact, the Supreme Council, a college body, is the subject of authority, so it is proposed to approve the Supreme Council’s decree on the accreditation of journalists. There are two things that have been added in relation to what has been previously approved: the right of journalists to enter all the premises of the Supreme Council without hindrance at meetings of the committees opened, I emphasize, by committees, by temporary committees. If the committee has not decided otherwise to hold a closed meeting. The other one. A solution to the issue of the removal of journalists for certain infringements should only take into account the opinions and recommendations of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. By adopting this draft Supreme Council Regulation and approving this provision for the accreditation of the media, you and I, as a collegiate subject of authority, will guarantee the rights of journalists, guarantee their professional responsibilities within the walls of the Supreme Council. And that won't require the additional agreement of journalists in order to go to committee meetings, some other agreement with the committee secretariat, etc. That is, if a journalist is accredited by the Supreme Council, he can unhinderedly carry out his professional duties and be present at all open meetings and committees of the Supreme Council. Therefore, my honourable colleagues, please support this draft decision and vote, and allow our journalists to explain our work publicly and openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the committee head of literally one minute, plus-minus Mikola Volodymyrovich, so that we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, to the position and address of Yuri Bogdanović, I would add that this decision was prepared by representatives of the vast majority of factions, including the faction of the Party of the Regions. Yuri Miroshnichenko was then involved in this process. And our approach is this. First. An accredited parliamentary journalist is an institutional journalist who has to be professional, prepared, responsible and work with our parliament, understanding what he's writing about, what he's saying and how he's doing. We, in turn, have to create all the conditions for such an accredited journalist, not demean him when he moves out of the room, and there the state guard records him ten times. We hold parliamentary hearings, journalists who are the same as accredited, here for an hour in a row to be accredited to us again. Therefore, the only accreditation allows them to act more responsibly, and we are responsible for our actions. If I was told, for example, there's a committee meeting very special, where there's a secret, where there's something else. Theoretically, it could be. But the Committees Act allows the committee to make decisions that are closed without journalists, there are no questions. You're holding such a meeting without journalists. But in the case of a traditional meeting system, an accredited parliamentary journalist has the right to be accredited to work both in the committee and in the session room. Second position. I think we've set up an opportunity there to take out the accreditation. And there's a mechanism if there's a conflict story. Now we have pseudojournalists from Russian media, we have some Russian media, that they're actually the issue of terrorists or a group of terrorists. So that's when we wrote down a mechanism to get these people out of accreditation, and how they shouldn't work, for example, when they act not as journalists, but as dictionaries of terrorism. So please support and organize the accreditation system.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, National Deputy Miroshnichenko, and we'll make a decision. But you can get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u211	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, first of all, I'm an education journalist myself, so I think I'm going to speak professionally, including. For your information, honourable fellow MPs, over 2,000 journalists have been accredited to the Supreme Council. We don't have that number of publications, and a lot of the people who are represented by journalists are actually solving their problems that have nothing to do with their creative activities. So the new order of accreditation, according to our committee, has to solve all these problems. And to journalists, it is a great request that we really take up our professional responsibilities. But the second question is, it's extremely important, and it's partly the head of the committee that's already raised, it's the presence in our Parliament of journalists who represent the aggressor state, the occupying state of the Russian Federation. Today, a group of national MPs of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association registered the 4109a decree, which envisions a temporary suspension of the accreditation of journalists representing Russian publications. These journalists are now spies, these journalists today are terrorist guides, these journalists today discredit the very name of journalists, because they distort facts, they twist, they manipulate, and they practice zombie therapy. And the information weapon, it destroys the Ukrainians no less and much harder than the weapons are automatic. So I still urge, on the one hand, to renew the procedure and make it more modern for our journalists, on the other hand, to immediately bring to the attention the Order on Stopping the accreditation of Russian media journalists. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can we make a decision from this project? I'll remind you, this is Project 2252a, the Approval Order of the Regulations on the Accreditation of Journalists and Technicians of the Press at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, based on. Only on the basis of a proposal. My address, Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee of Tomenko, is an offer, I understand? And in general. Because the committee's decision is just a basis. Please turn on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u213	In principle, the committee’s decision was to take the whole and the basis. I'm the only one who can see that some national deputies are being pulled up, as usual, by 14 hours. Maybe we're protesting the first vote, because it's a matter of responsibility that journalists don't then criticize us that we're afraid to let them go to committee meetings. I propose: in general. But let's give the signal vote and then we'll vote finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u214	Yes, dear colleagues, there is an offer: to call on journalists about the readiness of the Supreme Council to make this decision. Let's hit it. Please prepare for the vote and determine whether the Supreme Council is ready to consider this matter. Please vote. Signal vote. [[13:52:06]] For-187 The signal's not here. For the faction, please. Parenthood – 58.0 – region – impact – 30, Economic Development – 13, 12 – Sovereign and European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 17 – Ukraine’s Company, 23 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, let's be ready then. I'm asking the committee to include it in the decision-making process. This is an important issue, so I leave it to Parliament to vote. Dear colleagues, the next question related to. Now, with the draft Decision marking the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Poltava National Pedagogical University of V.H.Kroylenka. I'd like a head. We're voting, aren't we? Will we give Yavrovsky Volodymyr Alexanderovich a minute? One minute, he's asking a lot. Colleagues, perhaps someone will unwittingly press the button. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u215	Dear Society, we have three draft decrees. The first is a century of university, now it's called the University of Poltava. I don't think you can deny it here. What's more, I'd like to call on the people's deputies. First, Alexander Valentine's Day, let's avoid repeating these questions, there's a general list, I've prepared as the head of the committee, the Jubilee. Let's choose from there the most important thing, let's take into account what we're going through today's difficult times, and make decisions like repairs in the village and stuff like that -- it's going to be very difficult, but not to mention today's great articles, great historical events -- it's just going to be crazy, and it's going to make us poor. There's a second decision, and I particularly call on the people's deputies: if we don't get to vote now, maybe tomorrow, because it has a huge political agenda. This is the 700th anniversary of Khan Uzbekistan's mosque. This is a unique monument to the Crimean Tatar people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u216	I ask you, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch, we will now come to this question, and we can comment on it. Please, Your Honor, let's now define support as a basis and in general the same proposal? – the draft Decision on the 100th anniversary of the National Teachers' University of the name W.H. Queen. Please, Your Honor, 4086 as a basis and as a whole, please vote. [[13:55:04]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, well, we have enough people in the hall, I see, to still vote and support the University of Poltava, the 100th anniversary. Please, dear fellows, all the half-men raise their hands and ask to return to this question. Please, colleagues, let's take our seats. Because if I don't want to work, I'm going to shut down Parliament. Please give Viacheslav Kirilenka an opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u217	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland faction, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Well, that's the kind of question that everyone should have. Because, if the graduates of the Poltava Poedinstitut, and now the paeduniversity, and before the Institute of National Education, there were Makarenko and Sukhomlinsky, who were the authorities, especially in earlier times, on the other hand the graduates of this same peduniversity are Gregory Vashchenko, who is practically the founder of the Ukrainian Pedagogical School, the academic student Dmitry Bagaliya and the mass of other people, and all these people are the rooms of the Institute, now the universities, they are equally honored, and their work is equally taken into account during the teaching process. And Rector Stepanenko, an academic, is asking all of Ukraine, the Supreme Council and Poltavščina to vote now, because on July 1st, they have this date, 100 years of peduniversity and their plans.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u218	I've got the position. People's deputy Bublik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u219	Yuri Bublik, Poltavščina. I would like to complete Mr. Kirilenko and ask my fellow deputies to vote in favour. Because indeed, this educational institution deserves the great respect of Ukrainian society. I would like to point out that this educational institute was completed by Yuri Kondratjuk, the founder of the space flight route, is a man with a world name. It's worth noting that this educational institution at Poltava National Teachers' University has such a wonderful Ukrainian choir called Calina, which was 35 years old this year. And the concern of the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus for the award of this chorus by honoring the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And a lot, a lot of positive things can be said about this educational institution, so I ask all the national MPs to support and vote in favour of this decision, because this educational institution deserves more than just Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, we're going to have a little more discussion and, in general, there will be no chance of supporting the decision. So I would like to support the proposal that all speakers stressed regarding the return to this issue. I would like all the national deputies present in this room to support this proposal to return to the review of the Law (Registration No. 4086) on the 100th anniversary of the creation of the National Teachers' University of Poltava. Please vote on the return to this question. [[13:58:37]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, dear colleagues, let's take this whole draft decision as a basis. Please support the proposal and vote on Project 4086 on the 100th anniversary of the creation of the Poltava National Teachers' University of Queen's name. Please vote. [[13:59:10]] For 228 Thank you from the university for supporting the celebration of this outstanding scientific and educational institution. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's go to the 700th anniversary decree of Khan Uzbek's mosque. One minute, please, the national deputy of Yavorowski. Project of the People's Deputy, Jemiljev Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u221	This is a fundamental question! It's a question of principle. 700 years old to this mosque. It was the capital of the former Golden Horde. She's a little younger than our Sofia, just for two centuries. There must be a vote. This question has tremendous implications for the Crimean Tatars. This is a difficult time to support. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u222	Thank you. Hanna Herman, please, one minute. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, this is a very important question. And I ask the opposition to listen to the position of the Party of the Regions and to support the draft of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-18-m0.u224	Dear colleagues, please, let's all go together now. You see, the offer and Hanna Hermann, and the committee heads to support it. And this will be real support not only for the mosque, which is 700 years old, but also for our Crimean Tatar brothers, who are fighting for Ukraine in the occupied Crimea. Please, Your Honor, the project (4095) to mark the 700th anniversary of Khan Uzbek's mosque. Please, come on, a signal, a good, signal vote. So we don't lose the vote. Okay. Let's signal that we are ready to support this Project Decree 4095. Please, Your Honor, give me a vote. So you don't break the decision. Please vote. [[14:01:20]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions. Parenthood – 58, Regions – 20, Impact – 28, 17 – Economic Development, 13 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues! In view of the fact that we do not want to make decisions, we are finishing our work today. We'll come back to that question, colleagues. Tomorrow, I think we'll have an opportunity to accept this question, to support it. The Supreme Council will resume its work tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye. As for the parliamentary hearings, please make an announcement. At 15 hours, we have to have parliamentary hearings to ensure the development of an information society. All participants in parliamentary hearings please take an active part. Good-bye, dear fellows.
