ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take up jobs so that we can start our work with you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:03:47]] 278 National Deputies in the Supreme Council Hall I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, on December 12, Ukraine celebrates the Day of the U.S. Army. An extremely important day, including in view of the events we have today in the state. And I think we should all meet together today to welcome our Armed Forces with this day. Wish our soldiers health, success, well - being. With great appreciation for what they are doing today to strengthen Ukraine, strengthen our independence, and strengthen our sovereignty. Let's welcome the Land Army of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules, Friday, we have an hour of questions for the government. And you can see that in the government bed today there are government officials in charge of Deputy Prime Minister Hennady Zubko. We can start our work. I suggest we build our work next time. Deputy Prime Minister, since we only have an hour of 10 minutes, then the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, 15 minutes and then the ministers, 10 minutes and the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Health, seven minutes. So that we can listen to the ministers, ask them questions, if we have enough time, because there are written questions that have been asked by previous national MPs. But given the need for work, I'd change the turn of events if I didn't have any objections, and I'd invite the First Minister of Defense of Ukraine to this rostrum, and before that, I'd make a few announcements if there was no objection. Dear colleagues, we have an hour with you under the Rules. We have to distribute it so that we can comply with the Rules. Announcement. In accordance with 60 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of an interfractional inter-fractional association in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The interfractional MP was elected as the national deputy of Artushenko Igor Andriyovich. Next, dear colleagues. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I report on the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association with the European Union. Lopushansky Andrija Jaroslavovich was elected head of the interfractional MPs ’ association. Next, dear colleagues. An interfractional MP compound has been created. The heads of the inter-fractional MPs' association "The Carpathians" elected the national deputies of Ukraine, Matvienka Anatolia Sergiyyovich and Squaryluka Vladimir Vasilovich. In accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association for Slavskin. An interfractional MP was elected as the national deputy to the Ukraine of Filatov Boris Albertovich. Dear colleagues, this is where our announcement is completed. Let's start with an hour of questions to the government. I invite you to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Defence Minister of Ukraine, Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich. Please, Stephen Timothyovich, 7 minutes. But I would ask, Mr. Minister, to be as concise as possible. So the MPs could ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! First question about the main budget figures for next year. I would like to say that in planning the budget for the following year, the Ministry of Defence has come out of the need, the threat, and the need for the creation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which would be powerful, equipped and prepared. Last year’s budget was 15 billion and plus 11 billion from the contingency fund. The budget for the next year is 50 billion, the ones proposed by the Ministry of Defence. Why so much money, and what are the main costs spent? First. Because a plan for the next year for the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is in line with the threat. It envisions the creation of new parts and units, brigades, and the creation of special operations. In addition, four operational commands will govern and direct the Ukrainian Armed Forces on a territorial basis. I'd like to draw your attention to what should be taken into account in the next year's planning and what we've allocated to the Crimea Navy. And the right decision about the location, the arrangement should be taken into account. What are the main indicators for the purchase and modernization of weapons and military technology? Modernization -- 401 million, purchase -- 7 billion 457 million. They are home to the OPC foresaw a new shipment of arms worth 5 billion 716 million, imported to 1 billion 740 million. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that before we planned, we first explored the possibilities of our companies to supply new weapons to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, so that the planning would be efficient and the best possible use of this money that the government has allocated. The construction of ships and boats is 806 million. I'd like that. Special forces are 773 million dollars. Well, by military birth, I don't think you need these numbers, because accordingly, when you get out of the task, and the sums go into kind of an army. Next question. For scientific research, it's 167 million. I'd like to point out that we've left and studied only scientific and research works that are modernizing our technology and our capabilities, those that are at the point of completion, in order not to plan at first, and what no one will do to us. And that's why it's like that. To restore resilience and weapons, those military techniques are 4 billion 413 million. The same applies to our capabilities, our OPC companies, and the possibilities of our repair plants. The creation of a single automated system of 150 million, a communications network of 1 billion 93 million. There are proposals that have already been prepared, including the creation of battalion, regiment, brigade communication kits, and the provision of closed communication at all levels of management. Military training is 1 billion 970 million. This includes the practical training of crews, the preparation of parts of troops, the training of trainees, officers, and other experts. International military cooperation is 690 million. Here, starting with the maintenance of six Armed Forces contingents that carry out tasks outside the border and other measures. Calling citizens to military service is 95 million. An appeal for a term service of 40,000 is envisaged and the training of ten and a half thousand contractors in educational institutions. Mobilization work preparation is 10.8 million. Provision of cash is 15 billion, salary is 2 billion 897, one-time disability assistance is 423 million, food security is based on the number of special warehouses – 1 billion 563 million, supplies – 2 billion 945 million, the purchase of PMM – 2 billion 86 million, municipal services – 1 billion 456 million, the operation of a barracks and housing fund – 882 million, housing – 1.5 billion, the disposal of munitions – 16 million, the provision of an arsenal’s viability – 90 million, medical and sanitation – 150 million, military reform – 73, and other costs – 450 million. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these expenses are planned from the fact that the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has increased, last year we had 130,000 now - 232. It is planned that the number of the Armed Forces will be up to 250,000. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the need for and standardization of virtually all military purchases. We do, and this is a decision I reported to the Cabinet yesterday, and there is support for the government to create a single approach to all armed formations, starting with that. From the form of clothing, from weapons, from technology, from the means of communication. Because if we don't make the order in this direction, we're going to use the money, in my opinion, ineffectively. This group is going to be created because unfortunately, we have often, oftentimes, that the police buy one radio station, we buy the other radio station, we buy the third one. And then when we do the task, we can't connect to each other. So what I'd like to say is that this is where the work is going and the order is going to be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u3	Rules, Stepan Timothyovich. Order: 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u4	I'm just one minute away.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u5	Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u6	So the second question was about diversified intelligence groups. In my opinion, I think this is one of the units that has to do the task. My opinion is absolutely positive. And before that, I said that we're creating special operations forces, all of these issues will be foreseen in the perspective of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u7	Thank you, Stepan Timothyovich. Dear colleagues, we had two written questions answered by the minister. He's out of time. So I'm going to propose, because this is the first sitting, let's add three minutes. Now let's write down the factions. One question from the factions and one from the non-fractional. I'm asking you to register with factions. Fatherland, Alana Ivanovna Skrum, ask the minister a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u8	Alona Ivanovna's Scrum, "The Fatherland" faction, please pass the word to Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u9	Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u10	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. First of all, I would like to welcome our partners from the United States for the historic decision adopted yesterday by the United States Senate to grant status to our country as a country that is not yet a NATO member, but will receive all the privileges and support. [[Applause]] In addition, I would like to support both the Senate and the United States House of Representatives for allocating almost a billion dollars of direct aid, including military assistance to be provided. In order to do that, I would like to ask a direct question. Please tell us this is not a secret that the absence of intelligence has allowed us to keep firing at our positions. What is being done today by the Ministry of Defense and other authorities to obtain a closed special link for the direct communication of all of our own.?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u11	Thank you for asking. The point is, in order to create a closed connection, you need to prepare a tactical task first and create a communications system and then start directly with the tools that are being used. To date, a program has been implemented that has identified the means that we need to work on. And the draft budget provides more than a billion dollars for us to acquire those forces and resources to ensure that we manage the troops. This is, of course, a very serious problem because without management, successful fighting is impossible. This is provided for in that draft budget for the following year and will be used. Now, once again, I want to say, a system created, which is clearly defined by the conditions that need to be done, the sets, the battalion, the brigade, the regiment and so on. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, Oleg Lazko. It was written by Lensky Alexyyyovich. But, as I understand it, the faction manager, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The decision made yesterday by the United States Senate is indeed a historic decision. That's what we've been insisting since the beginning of the military aggression, that if Ukraine is not a NATO member, that means the countries that guarantee our integrity under the Budapest Memorandum (United States, Great Britain, France would have made direct military alliances with our state and provided real assistance. This historic decision took place once in 1940, Britain and the United States formed a military alliance against Hitler, just like today, I hope the United States will form a military alliance with Ukraine. And it's going to be a very powerful incentive for Putin to understand that we're breaking both his and his horns and everything else if his invaders go to our land if they don't get out of our home land. Taking this opportunity, I want to wish our fighters, the head of the Ministry of Defense, that you don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u14	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u15	Work so that there is no enemy on earth, do not negotiate with the enemy, no bifurcation zones, and no separation lines in the middle of Donbas. Our border on the border between Ukraine and Russia, and your task of freeing the country, our task, our politicians, is to help you, and we will help you in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u16	Thank you. Next, the Self-Help faction, Irina Grigorovna Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u17	Please pass the word to Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u18	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u19	Thank you, Minister, for coming. Thank you. In fact, I want to say that our cooperation is now very well established and thank you for taking an active part. Two such remarks. The first remark to the group, the national MPs, and how they act, when the minister reports the most important topic for the state right now. Second remark to the minister himself, believe me, no figures are taken. What Sobolev said is important, it hurts me, too, because the LTE format of the tactical link could have been purchased and armed, we didn't do it for some reason. And two short questions. The first is a human resources issue at the General Intelligence Directorate, will you address it, considering the strength of the Russian agents that are there? And secondly, the management of those property complexes that are still in the Department of Security, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the issues must be very brief and clear because we have a limited time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u21	So the question about the numbers, of course, you understand what question you're asking, so I'm answering it. I can't report the Ministry of Defense's full budget in three minutes. I'm completely open, and if anyone needs information, I invite them to me, and I'm ready to present the complete information on each chapter. As for the changes in the Ministry of Defense, they happen, and they will happen. Because there is a real need. But in order to change people, you have to change people, so you don't fail this system. We need to analyze the situation and prepare a replacement. The changes will take place, and the Ministry of Defence, by the end of the year, will have a new system, a new structure, and the entire special composition of the Ministry of Defence will be reclassified, including the Directorate of Intelligence. As far as property complexes are concerned, we work with them, study them, and now there's a serious firm that's practically completely testing the operation of their property complexes. So he's doing an inventory, and after a report that needs to be ready in a week, we're going to make the right decision on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Valery Puckaan, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u24	Oleg Barn, Petra Dustenka's Block. Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u25	Thank you, colleague. Mr. Secretary, I'll only have a wish for you. First, order up the military commission to appoint ATO participants who cannot be in construction. Second, to return to the property of the Ministry of Defense all military towns and lands that were transferred to municipal property for the purpose of further acceptance, or companies. And also, start a procedure for returning companies to the military-industrial complex. And last of all, young people under the age of 25 shouldn't be on the front, there should be only volunteers -- it's the flower of our nation. Provide for a two - month rotation, and a separate personal wish to deliver a message to Oles Long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u26	I'd like to say that we'll do all of this if there's your help and support and interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor. Next question. "The People's Front," is there a question to the Secretary of Defense? Please, Timchuk. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that we have an hour. The factions asked their written questions. I gave every faction a guaranteed right to ask one question. There will be no more questions. We've got an hour. So please follow the Rules. Please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u28	Dmitri Timchuk, People's Front. Minister, it is not clear from your published budget structure whether such vital measures as relocation — well, the change in the location of the permanent deployment of the military forces — will take place. Now if you look at the map of the permanent locations, it's like we're getting ready to attack from NATO countries. We have a war in a completely different region. Are such measures foreordained? And I have a question for the leadership of the Supreme Council. What are we waiting for when Ukraine is deprived of its non-lock status? Should we not consider the bill already? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I would like to say, from what I started out, that planning for the next year is carried out and carried out according to the threat. The redeployment is planned, the expansion of new parts is planned, and the deployment of operational territorial administrations, the deployment of permanent threat teams. Today we have one threat: the east of our border. So in the east, I'm not going to say the number of military units, but the planned deployment is going to be enough to make sure. To ensure that our borders are intact. This work is planned and carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u30	Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u31	Please pass the word to Anton Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u32	Anton Kisse, Economic Development Group. Dearest Stepan Timofeyevich, first of all, I would like to welcome you from our countrymen, from our small homeland, the Tarutin region. I want to ask a very short question. Most recently, it is initiated by the Chief of the General Staff on the redeployment of a battalion of gunships, located in the famous city of Bolgrad. Tell me, how true is that? I would just like to emphasize that the paratroopers were directly involved in ATO events and were rewarded, including by the Ministry of Defence, with awards. This is very disturbing to our countrymen in Bessarabia. And the second. Please set up an ad hoc group to address the use of the Tarutinski polygon, because today there are many problems, rumors. To distract them, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u33	I'd like to say that we're not the only ones in the East, and there are threats in the South. And there's a group of troops that need to be scaled up, not smaller, but bigger. So the corresponding sentence works, I think there will be not a battalion, but much more because there are threats from Transnistria, there are threats from the south. We know that clearly, and the grouping will be increased there. As for the Tarutin range, the same decision is being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Thank you, Stepan Timothyovich. Any more questions to the minister? Let's do it this way: we're going to spend the next 30 minutes for questions from national MPs, you're all going to sign up -- and I'm going to give everyone a word who's going to be on the record. Have a seat, please. Sit down, Stepan Timothyovich. Thank you. [[Applause]] Please, Your Honor. Teeth of Hennaday Grigorovich. Gennady Grigorovich! We can do this as follows: we can now write down to everyone from the national MPs, and so they'll ask questions for the next 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u35	Now we're going to wait for the People's Deputy to follow the discipline. And we'll get started.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u36	Please, Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u37	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u38	After the speech, Hennady Grigorovitch will write the deputies to the cabinet members and ask questions, they will answer from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u39	First of all, I thank you for coming on Friday to those MPs who really want answers to their questions. And I'd like to talk further about the issues that we haven't been able to talk about in the Government Action Programme, what's in the direction of the Ministry of Regional Development, I emphasize, construction and architecture and housing and utility. Very simple questions I'd like to break into a few blocks, maybe we have less questions in my report about the questions that the Self-Help faction and the People's Front asked on the bill and on the actions that we're going to do together in 2015. Why I am addressing all the deputies and those who have listened today to exactly what we need to do together in 2015. It was quite right yesterday to say that today there is an opportunity to support the economy at the expense of what we now expect from the International Monetary Fund. But there's another direction, these are the borrowings and the investments that we have to invest in the economy just for the sake of sustaining the economy and for giving jobs to our people who are practically not able to work enough today. I'll tell you very simply, we have three ministries today that really have this opportunity, this is the Ministry of Infrastructure, this is the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, and this is the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Architecture. These are the things that can actually involve investment costs that can start an economy that can create jobs that can move the economy. To do that, we still need the Ministry of Economics, which may be setting up the points that we cannot today ensure the passage of the donor investment funds that depend on Order 1041 to 9 months in the government today. And for today, it's a very big brake to make investment projects happen. I'd break all the questions, the ones about the Ministry of Regional Development in 3 blocks, what we talked about yesterday about decentralization, the local self-government, the bills that need to be amended today, and we, I think we'll be looking at the changes to the Budget, Tax Codes in order to do first, budgetary decentralization, as well as the bill on voluntary union of communities that was adopted in the first reading that we're going to have to adopt in the second reading. And the second block, which is very serious, which is about the law on local self-government, about the service of local self-government, because we really need to understand very clearly today who is going to perform the functions that the state is transferring to the places that it is in the local self-government that will do it. So block one is the financial decentralization, the drafting of changes to the Constitution, and block two of all the bills that apply to local self-government. Now more than it was yesterday, it didn't say, but it is. I'd like to talk about what kind of plan we have in two directions. These are the very directions that the Ministry of Regional Development can make investments in Ukraine. Now, we're interested in investors in the energy saving market in Ukraine, energy efficiency, and that's where we need to take a few steps today that will help us make a transparent system for an investor not only how to invest money, but how to pay it back. So the energy efficiency that we understand today is very much dependent on local self-government, how they're going to propose projects, how they're going to be willing to join investment projects, and what is the main thing that we're going to create for local self-government, for investors, to recover these funds. So today, we have a number of drafts prepared for submission to the Supreme Council. This is a bill on energy efficiency of buildings that will allow for a clear analysis of the state of housing and utilities, and you know that so far 47 percent of the heat loss is the energy efficiency of buildings, all the other gas equipment replacements, the greenhouses are 5 and 10.12 percent, respectively. So this question is very serious for analysis in order to allow money to be invested today. The second bill is about the return to investors of money that can be invested in investment contracts, this is a bill on the specificities of energy service purchases. This is a so-called "ESC" project that will help not only invest money, but also understand how they can be returned by increasing energy efficiency. The third bill you'd like to support in this very room is a bill and changes to it about energy conservation. This is what will allow us today to offer the market, in general, energy, the energy efficiency of the residential sector, like the market that today needs investment and investment. That's what makes it possible to involve very serious money in Ukraine. And last of all, that's what today is about implementing energy-efficient measures in budgetary institutions. To be clear, today our nation is losing a lot of money because of the lack of energy efficiency in the budget institutions that are now purchasing virtually and heat and other sanitation services, just at commercial prices. And today the state is paying a commercial price for the inefficient use of these buildings. What is involved in construction matters today. I'd like everyone to realize right now that we have this construction sector that we talked about here yesterday from the rostrum, that it's probably the very corruption sector, probably just so incomprehensible to people, but that's the area that gives 68. This is the sector that can run our economy practically. This is the area where we can invest in money today. I'll tell you, there are a few directions that we're working on today. And today we realize that maybe the housing market, the market of those, in general, the loans that could be in Ukraine, is calculated by tens of billions of dollars, and really these investors are, they're willing to invest, but they're willing to figure out what they're going to make of this money. That's how, the Ministry of Economics, I think together we're dealing with issues that are not allowed today. After that. I want everyone to think about it. After the investor agreed to give the money, after he approved the tech-economic justification, after Minfin had already agreed to the borrowing system, it all fell into the Mineconomy. And for nine months, the Ministry of Economics experts decide to get that kind of loan. You know, so we're not going to move to Europe, we're going to go back clearly to the Soviet Union, but to the Soviet Union for 30 years. That's why we're going to solve these problems. And I would also like to have the support of the people's deputies here, and it's the committee that's in the direction of the economy that's in the Ministry of Regional Development -- support in that direction. We have a lot of problems today, right after the construction. In fact, construction is not ready to provide its construction structures, its construction materials to Europe today. Simple things. We can't take the simple steps that Georgia has taken today that just proposed: "You have an American project -- please build; you have a Polish project -- please build; but do everything that goes from start to finish according to the standards that work in the country." I think we should make a breakthrough this year. First of all, we need to be able to prepare all the building structures according to the European E standards. And it's not that big of a job, because it's practically done. And the main thing is that we have to open up our housing market so that we can invest here. These are primarily aspects of unfinished construction. I'd like you to listen to all the deputies. Because you will be met on the road tomorrow by two and a half thousand people who are already united in communities that defend their rights under construction. And that's the problem, it's primarily a burden on the banking system. Because there is a very serious toxic portfolio of those loans for which the state today reserves additional money. Because it's a risky portfolio. And on the other hand, people who have invested money and who today can't use their right to have housing that's not built. So where the only customer is the state, we're willing to borrow and invest today to complete these projects. First, reduce the pressure on our financial institutions by reducing the toxic credit portfolio. And on the other hand, some of the problems with unfinished construction are closed. What's in general the direction of today's residential services today is what's going on between co-owners, Jacks, and local self-government is being prepared for us right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u40	20 seconds, complete. And then there'll be questions from the deputies, you'll answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u41	regarding the exercise of property rights in a multi-family building, which will first allow the co-owners themselves to unite, to refuse those companies that provide services today, and to determine for themselves who will be the manager and who will provide them with these services. And the second law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u42	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u43	Communicating services. Volodymyr Borisovich, this is your job. You won't let me tell you about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u44	The committee's gonna tell us so we don't have to waste time right now. There will be questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u45	But these two bills, they're really going to be able to break through housing services in a situation involving housing and utilities. Because when I'm asked why we didn't record the pipe repair program, I'll tell you. We don't need to write this down, we need to create conditions for local self-government to benefit, first of all, from its own costs, and we've given the possibility through state treasury to do it, and just run this process so that we can remove the regulation that is in this direction today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u46	Thank you, Gennady Grigorovich. Please take your seats. Now, dear fellows, we're going to have 30 minutes. Dear colleagues, we will now have 30 minutes to ask the government. You can see that there are government officials in the government's bed. And we'll be able to ask everyone questions from the MPs. That's why I'm recording the questions right now. Please sign up for the question. We've got 30 minutes under the Rules. Please, Musak Aleksei Petrovich, Peter Dustenka's Block. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u47	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Reverend Head! Good afternoon, ministers of honor! I have a question to the APC minister, Mr. Alexi Pavlenko, about the situation at the Odessa Customs. So look, now the Crucifixion has switched to the electronic certificates of the quarantine certificate, and it's working electronically. And the customs inspector, they don't accept electronic certificates and they ask for paper copies, which leads to delays in exports and, well, wrong work like I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u48	Thank you so much for asking. I've actually heard about this for the first time. As far as I know, you know, there was Decree 442 of the Government, and the issue of the quarantine of veterinary service now passed from MinAPC and depended on, it's happening between us and Kabmin. I think the question needs to be solved at all in the complex. We plan to ask the question next week about watching 442 Orders and transferring quarantine-related functions back to the Ministry. I'm suggesting maybe we make up a question, we can speak separately. I'm not ready to give an answer right now. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u49	Thank you. I'm asking you to process and give an answer to the national MP. Next. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u50	I have a question for Gennady Zubka as one of the government leaders. Mr. Hennadia, this is how I would like the common people to give advice or advice. When you see the Prime Minister, give me two concerns. The first concern. Yesterday he reported and 90 percent of his speech was what he said nine months ago. I understand that Parliament has been upgraded by 56 percent, maybe it wanted to repeat it for the new MPs, but it is desirable not to repeat it. And second position. That's 70 percent of the Prime Minister's speech is the tattoo of our enemies. These are friends when the government starts thinking about Ukrainian citizens. So I have a request: a working-time government should love Ukraine, worry about Ukrainian citizens, and in its free time, hate the enemies. Then we will praise the government. And when you only hate your enemies all the time, you can't work for the citizens. So, my friends, work for Ukraine. Koljev Alon Volodymyr, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u51	Please pass the word to Oksana Korchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u52	Please, National Deputy Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u53	Good morning! I have a question to ask the government, and especially the Secretary of Defense, unfortunately, I don't see him right now. How is it that if you plan to provide only 150 million medical units out of 50 billion, if the Ukrainian Armed Forces are the worst in medical care? We have helicopters all over the ATO, several helicopters from 21 to 34 years of age. The only ambulance that's 30 years old and it's out of service. And every time we can't send the wounded to the big cities. And finally, please, I ask you to pass the matter on to the minister. Why do he have a number of months in warehouses with humanitarian aid kits that have yet to reach any ATO fighter? I'm interested in the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u54	Thank you. I ask you to give this question officially to the Minister of Defense and to give an answer to the National MP. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u55	I give the word to Barn Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u56	Barna Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u57	Dear Head, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, honourable ministers, of course, that we have a major problem, this is probably not just the problems that exist in Ukraine and the problems that we have to solve together. So I'm happy to finally see the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, minister of Pawelenko, finally. It was five days after we had contacted him to meet with a group of Ukrainian Supreme Council deputies in connection with the situation in the Ternopil region when people were on the street and covering the roads. This is the reaction of ministers to people’s problems. That's the first question. So I would like to thank the representatives of the fiscal service, who have already made a clear response to the situation that is taking place at the Ukrispirt concert, in view of the fact that open conduct is criminalized by the fact that nearly 200 million dollars have been stolen. What we've been trying to talk about for the last two weeks. That is why I would like to address Minister Pavelek with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u59	Thank you so much for asking. I'm sorry I've been so tense this past week, we're working, you know, a lot. And unfortunately, let's say you know that, for example, last night we slept there for 30 minutes, today we slept for two hours. In fact, there's a lot of questions that I've been passing on to the deputies, and they're supposed to meet, and they're asking me these questions. I've got a lot. There's a separate analysis of your analysis, there were appointed deputies, and they had to coordinate this issue, and I was told that the issue was under control. Thank you so much for the questions that were asked on Easter. More than that, we have a major problem, at least in five major companies, with grain, alcohol, and the foundation. Now they're being investigated by the D.A., now they're being monitored, the figures that come from the D.A.'s office, from the D.A.S.A., there's just millions, billions of dollars that are problematic. As soon as possible, personnel rotations will be made, and removals will be made. And I think you'll see, literally for the next week, too. Once again, thanks for the information coming from the regions, it's very useful and it's all going to work. Once again, I apologize for not being able to meet you in person, just, you know, in a situation where we work in one boat and we have a lot of work issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u60	Thank you, Minister. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u61	Thank you for saying that. I'm addressing Mr. First Vice Prime Minister Gennady Zubko. I'm offering you help from both the Committee on Industry and Entrepreneurship and the two factions of the Fatherland and Self-Help who are just talking about starting to do something in the CDC, in change, in energy, we need to start fighting monopolism. Mr. Hennadia, 40 percent of the money is stolen at the current rate. Now we're talking to the government that we're raising the tariff again. We're ready to show where they're stealing, most of all where they're lying, oblenergo. But if we go down to the municipal monopolies that deliver water and heat, it's, as a minimum, after the Court of Auditors' investigation, in every place, it's 5 percent of the money that goes to the left, it's the sticky ones in the tariff. And that's why we're not asking you to ask, but we're asking you to set up an urgent task force, which is going to be joined by national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u62	Please, Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u63	Alexander Volodymyr, thank you for the offer. help, we will definitely create a working group of active deputies that will not only be involved in the drafting of bills, but also provide the first opportunity to make the priorities that we should move on, where we should deregulation the situation. I'll just tell you what, today, Ukraine, if this is about tariffs and energy saving at all, to make it clear, if it's interesting to the MPs, I'll give you a few figures. I'm going to compare it to a simple country that's right next to us is Poland. Poland, which has 7 million less people, but today has three times as much GDP. And the interesting thing is, with three times more GDP, it spends three times less gas. It's a question, in general, and those unwarranted tariffs, that's the extra use of gas that's not controlled, including the kind of generating companies. And that's the question of what we need to do with energy efficiency in order to make sure we don't lose that by default. I'll tell you that at such prices for gas, with such a lack of energy efficiency, we just don't have the ability today to have competitive manufacturers in any industry. So here's the question, thank you very much for the offer, and I would like the MPs not only to propose the bills themselves, but also to help build the priority. What do we need, and first of all, where do we go? And it's about deregulation in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Romanov Anna Anatoly faction "self-help"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u65	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Vice Prime Minister Gennady Zubka, as well as the Minister of Economics. Please tell us, in the government activity program that we were able to hear yesterday, absolutely nothing is relevant to internal and travel tourism. Despite the fact that this sector can bring millions of assets to our economy under a successful management approach. Please tell us, who will be directly involved in the formation of a positive tourist and investment image of Ukraine and in the development of internal and travel tourism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u66	Let me give you a very brief answer, and then I'll pass on the word to Roman Kachuro on the grounds that the Tourism Service is now being transferred to the Mineconomy. But let me put it very simply, yes, Ukraine today has a very serious, yes, potential right after investing in tourism. If we compare in general the points that apply to today and to Western Ukraine and to southern Ukraine, I think we can create a very large potential for precisely and hotel complexes, and where we can engage tourists today, considering that today, first of all, the situation with Crimea is not clear, and we can't provide those services at present. And on the other hand, on today's day, Ukraine can actually do it because of the potential that we have to implement through the Ministry of Infrastructure, on the roads, first. Because we have today's tourism day, first of all, we need transport infrastructure to work first. So this potential is very large, it's practically billions of loans, and I think that's the direction we're going to be developing. Oh, Roman Pavlovich, please tell me in detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u67	Yes, thank you. In September, a decision was taken to eliminate the State Tourism Service by joining the Ministry of Economics as part of the optimisation of executive authorities. Today this decision has not been fully implemented, so these functions have not yet been passed on to the Ministry of Economics. But our position is that the sector should develop on its own does not need to create separate services or coordination. Our job is to help those structures and businesses that are already developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u68	Please, People's Deputy Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u69	Hello, respectable Vladimir Borisovich. I have a question for the whole government. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not, but I would like to see if there is a responsible person who would answer the question that would be reasonable to the next question. Act 1669 “On interim measures for the duration of an anti-terrorism operation” was adopted by the Supreme Council of the previous convening. In particular, the Act provided for a number of benefits for residents of an anti-terrorist operation, namely: a moratorium on the imposition of fines, non-payment of credit obligations, a moratorium on foams and fines for housing and utility services, a moratorium on the recovery of immovable property in the ATO area against creditors. In this law, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to adopt a list of settlements belonging to the ATO zone. The Kabmin took the order and then unlawfully revoked the order a few days later (1079r). Question: When an illegal order blocking the operation of the law is lifted.?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u70	Let me finish. And I have a request. Give me your request in writing. I'll take a look at that in the determination. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Self-Help, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Please pass the word to Alane Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u72	People's deputy Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u73	Good afternoon. Thank you for taking our proposals into account in the Government's Programme for State support for energy efficiency measures in buildings and budgetary institutions. Thank you for that. We have a request to the Minister of Social Policy. Please provide an estimate of the percentage of Ukrainian households that will need targeted social assistance to pay for residential services in connection with the projected increase in energy tariffs. And please tell me, is the corresponding amount planned in Ukraine’s budget for the following year to ensure that the percentage of households that will need help is increased? Second question to Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Please tell us what action the government is planning to take in order to support water supply and heating companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u74	I'm sorry. Here comes the national MPs, and they're a little distracted. Can I do it again?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u75	Questions, questions about the public budget funds to be earmarked for 2015 for social protection, increasing the number of households. That's the first question. And the second question is: State support, is state aid planned, and what state support for water and heat companies?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, firstly, that you approved the Government's Programme of Action yesterday. And as you've seen, there's a clear requirement, a clear position on the need to raise prices for residential services, prices and tariffs to market levels. But it's not a question of shock therapy, it's a term that's set for 2017. Today, there is no price increase schedule for residential services at this time. Today, government work is being done in harmony with these issues. I can say one thing: as soon as the schedule is ready, the need for our services, the Ministry of Social Policy, will immediately be determined under this graph to pay for all the help. You know, we have two programs today: the first program -- subsidies, targeted subsidies, and the second program -- the price increases for people who have less income. So today we have, well, peak time of reference to labor agencies has already passed, because it's usually October, November, December, if there's no price rise, we're going to be going to figure out the standard per December, somewhere, January -- it's going to be 1 million to 1 million to 1 million 200 people who are going to receive subsidies. Of course, there will be a new schedule, all the public funding for subsidies and aid will be provided. And it's our obligation to protect people from such an increase, they're probably underfunded, families from such an increase. So there's going to be a graph, there's going to be calculations and they're all going to be put into the state budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u77	Vladimir Borisovich, second question asked there, I'll add. Look, about social protection, I think Paul Rosenko here made it very clear. What is involved in State support for these programs. Today, for the sake of clarity, water and water tariffs have been raised to an economically sound level. So please, this is where you have to work and local self-government, because the state has provided this, right? And on the other hand, you just have to count the losses that there are right now, so now we're preparing a bill to amend the drinking water law, which will take into account how the pressure is from industrial enterprises. Because no one's doing this right now, and the other thing is that today we have to work very clearly on what local self-government needs to do in order to reduce these losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u79	Matvienka, Peter Dustock's Block. I have a question for Mr. Voschevsky Valerius Mikolaiovich and for Mr. Umanski Igor Ivanovich. Valerius Mikolaiovich, I have a question for you, and you listen. I don't like the slogan that the Prime Minister declared yesterday that 2015 is a year of survival. But even if this is a government task, we can survive when we are able to create targets for some development clusters and development centers and we need to understand that without them we will not survive. The agricultural sector is a separate topic, but I'm now interested in the next question. Caring is a recreational zone, today the absence of Crimea is holding back the tourist flow of the Carpenter because there is no road. If we solve the problem on the road alone, how to concentrate our efforts, we will gain the synergy of significant economic growth and investment, and tourism, and economic growth. I want to ask you if you support this idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u80	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, distinguished national MPs! I want you all to hear, there's one of the most pressing tasks that the government is doing today, it's going through this winter, it's going through this winter, first of all, it's about all the infrastructure of the state. We have, in fact, a very difficult situation on both the Crossroads and in Ukraine. There is no resource to build something today, and most likely there will be no resource in 2015. Which way out of this situation, we will, I'm sure, find it together. One of the biggest problems is debt. It's probably a restructuring. Next problem. We need large infrastructure projects in the state, such as the large ring road around Kiev, other projects that will allow huge resources to be involved here. But I wanted the national MPs to hear me now. The cruiser, Ukrainetodor, has a colossal problem — debt. In this room, please don't be offended, there are people who have an impact on dozens of enterprises that are suppliers, and in some cases monopolies in providing material resources for Ukrazalnica and for Ukraine. Influence these businesses. Stop robbing the Railroad. Bring to normal the price at which you supply fuel-oil materials. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! We have a common responsibility for the country, but we'll wait there for a few more days. And we know these schemes that work, they will be eliminated, so that no one will doubt that. Here, Anatoly Sergiyovich, our main resource is to develop and we will do so. [[Applause]] I also support your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u81	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Questions to the government, particularly to the Ministry of Economics. First question. Have the long-term strategy for the development of high-tech productions envisaged by the Coalition Agreement and the specific costing mechanisms for capital investment already been developed, and are the creation of a credit-expert agency already under way? That's the first question. And I want to say that in this matter, our Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship is ready to actively help the government. And the second question is how is the preparation of the donor conference, and what are the key ways in which the funds are involved, and where is it planned to channel these funds that will be involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. It's about spending. We really realize what the credit ratings of Ukraine and the sources of the origin of the funds are now. And unfortunately, for today, it can only be investors like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which actually invested about $10 billion this year. And that's an unprecedented sum, compared to the previous years. And this work will be continued next year. You know the mission is already in Kiev. Regarding the export of the credit agency. The draft law was prepared and submitted for consideration by the government. But now I have returned in connection with a change in government composition. We support this position in principle and will continue to initiate, to continue to work on the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, People's Front. We have seven minutes left. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you a very strict question and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u86	Good afternoon! Deputy Gus, 19th District, Volin. I have a question for Mr. Demchikin, Minister of Coal Industry. I represent the city of Novovolinsk, where there are enough mines, the Lvivsko-Volinski basin. There is a problem today. We have a purchase problem on Donbas, and we don't even buy coal politically. And the tenth mine, which we have and are waiting for funding, is being built for 26 years if the question is not going anywhere. I very much ask you all to find an opportunity to visit Novovolinsky, to gather all the representatives of the Lvivsko-Volinski Basin of all the mines and especially the tenth mine. And think about how we can, at the expense of the 2015 budget, solve the issue and find ways to fund the construction of the tenth mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy is currently actively engaged in many issues. Among them is the provision of our energy-generating capacities to coals. This is also the issue of the coil shut-offs that are now being used actively in connection with the imbalance in the energy system. But I do. These are critical issues that are currently being addressed, and a lot of energy is relying on them. In addition to reforming our staff, we assign people to a large number of state-owned enterprises that we manage. But the main tasks we're doing right now are to reform coal and oil and gas industries. In the coal industry, as you know, there are a lot of questions to it. The state subsidized historically, well, last year over 14 billion dollars were allocated to support the coal industry, that's huge amounts. The cost of coal produced in Ukraine, on average, is at least twice as high as in the world market. I realize that these are all important social issues, but for the moment I'm coming out of a very simple economic approach, if there's a prospect for these coal mines, they're going to develop, if the coal mine is being built for 25 years, and it needs 500 million dollars to be added, and then it's going to be able to get only 400,000 tons of coal every year, more than its quality, the calories of about 4,000 kilocalories, well, economic accounting in this case doesn't work. So what I'm going to say right now is that it's purely an economic approach. If, for the most part, we are now with the Ministry of Economics developing a plan to privatize coal enterprises, those with a perspective will be privatized or developed by the state. We understand that providing our energy-generating capacities with coals is much more convenient and it's the right thing to do, except that it's developing our economy that makes it possible to withstand the low cost of electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u88	Next question, Bordüg Inna Leonidivna, Oleg Lacha Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u89	I give the word Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u90	Please, National Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u91	I have a question for the government, especially the Minister of Justice. That's the question. Why is there still no illustration in the Department of Execution? What punishment did the officers, the heads of institutions involved in the distribution of separatist literature, particularly in the number 70 correctional colony, where the newspaper Novarosia was distributed? What punishment did the leaders of colony 58 suffer, where were prisoners of attempted mass suicide (30 people were starving, then cutting their veins)? I have a question for the minister. Maybe you should think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u92	Please answer. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u93	Dear People's Deputies! Deputy Minister Bondarchuk Igor Volodymyrovich. The management of the State Penitentiary Service is new. We have a department for illustration, and we're going to study your question fully. Because such official information did not come to us, and we will certainly give you the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Lucenko Igor Viktorovich, the Motherland Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u95	Please give my word to your colleague, Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u96	Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u97	I wanted to address Mr. Vice Prime Minister Gennady Zubka. Mr. Hennadia, I didn't hear the real situation of decentralization from the Prime Minister yesterday. So the main goal of decentralization is to form capable communities. I'd like to hear how much you want to drag this into the formation of capable communities that you really said it would be in a year, in two and so on. How do you feel about voluntary associations, since the Cabinet bill has already come in, communities? And the third. Please, Mr. Hennadia, look at the budgetary decentralization. I spoke to the government of the Rural Councils Association yesterday, they're the heads of all the regional departments. They're not excited about decentralization that doesn't go to the base level. It doesn't touch small towns, it doesn't touch rural and rural councils, they only go to district centers and city district subordination. Let's see together that we actually vote for the financial decentralization that we talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you again on the question of decentralization, so everyone understands clearly. The budget code, the changes to it are inter-budget relations. It will apply not only to large cities, districts, and districts, but also to rural councils. So please take a closer look, and the tax code that goes into the base changes into a couple, and the tax base changes. The second question is a second reading on voluntary community reunification, which has already been the first reading in Parliament. And this is the next step. So all of the other points that apply in general to how to raise the situation in general at the rural level and at the level of the silage, here we have to work together. Why? Because today the unification of two poor communities does not bring about anything. So the question here is what I said in my speech on investment, investment in agribusiness and what we talked about yesterday about the Government's Action Programme, support for small and medium-sized farms, which will allow the village today not only to produce raw materials and export grain, but also to invest in processing. It's something that can give you something to get, some work in the country. Because large agro-industrial holdings, unfortunately, do not engage the local population in their process. So there's a direction here that's not just about decentralization and what's related to the budget, but also about the government's work on investing in agriculture to the development of medium and small farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u99	Thank you, Hennady Grigorovich. I think the issue of financial decentralization, including in rural areas, is extremely relevant. But I'm convinced that that package of laws that was previously made by the government, including those issues, is also settled because there are extremely small communities that can't even administer taxes on their own. But I think that's the subject of a separate discussion that needs to be held, and I'm going to initiate this discussion, because it's very important. Dear colleagues, we have the time given by the Rules, even more than the Rules, to ask questions. As the Minister of the Cabinet has informed me, there is now going to be a government meeting and that is why we have to thank the government. But first of all, I want to point out that during the Conciliation Board, we're going to define topics with you so that everyone can ask questions and get answers. That's why I thank the government officials for being you. And I would also like to stress that the personal ministers, their deputies, personally attend committee meetings to discuss the issue of our interaction, because this is very important, in terms of the quality of the preparation of decisions. I asked the Minister of the Cabinet to take this into account and do everything in his/her power to make decisions with the members of the Supreme Council. Thank you, distinguished officials. Dear colleagues, I have an announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union of the Maydan Self-Defense in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Interfractional Union of the Self-Defense of Maidan was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymirovic. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a statement from two MP factions, namely the faction of the Opposition Block and the MP group called for a 30-minute recess. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, I have a recess to announce. So I'm going to call it an 11-hour break for 45 minutes. Thank you, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u100	Deputies enter the hall to continue their work. Please take your seats. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce requests and also one hour to speak to the Ukrainian national deputies. I invite the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oxana Siroid, to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 102 requests registered. And I ask you to prepare and hear about the questions that have come that will be sent from Parliament. So there were requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an unsatisfactory response to the MP's request for a change in the status of the barracks of improved planning for a dormitory in the village of Lake Zitomir district of the Žitomir region. From Viktor Razwadowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Regional Regional Administration for the use of funds allocated in 2013 from the State Budget of Ukraine for the establishment of a modular boiler at the Beresov School of Education, II and III degrees in the Lubar district of the Žitomir Region, which did not arrive at the place of destination, and the resolution of the question of the restoration of work on the establishment of boilers. From Andrija Shinkovič to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insolvency of the Bank of Public Shareholders Association of the All-Ukrainian Shareholder Bank. From Igor Artyushenko to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, to explain the procedure for dismantling the monument of Volodymyr Lenin in Zaporozhye. From Igor Artushenka to the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Zaporozhye district on abuses in the residential and utility sector of Zaporozhye. From Oleg Barna to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the circumstances of the illegal activity of the management of the State Enterprise, Ukrispirt. From Alexi Honcharenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, regarding the delay in the investigation by the investigating authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa Region of 16 criminal conducts concerning the Križanian Rural Head of the Odessa Region of the Odessa Region of Natalia Krupici and the officials of the Cominternal District Council in the use of budgetary funds, the allocation of land, and so on. From Andrew Illenck to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the possible involvement of Wawa Morda (Volodymir Diduch) in the creation of a criminal organization. From Andri Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, to provide information on the legal basis for the construction of a multi-story building on the street of Peter Vershigora, the 9th in the Dniprov district of Kiev, and the use of measures to prevent violations of current legislation. From Mikhail Kobcev to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to respond to corruption in the tax area by the head of the Specialised State Tax Inspectorate for the service of large payers in Lviv, the Interregional Chief Executive of the Mindohods, Alexander Juristovski. From Yuri Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide information on the financing of targeted environmental (green) investment projects, including those implemented in the areas of Donetsk and Luhansk which are linked to the antiterrorist operations. From Jury Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Labour Code and the Ukrainian Labour Act "On pay" during the formation of the Single Tariff Network and the establishment of official salaries (tariff rates) for teachers, science and education workers, health workers and the introduction of their average wage to the average wage of industrial workers. From Bogdan Dubnević to the acting Director General of the Ukrainian State Post Office for the rehabilitation of the Post Offices in the Lviv region. From Jaroslav Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development and implementation of additions to the Order for the granting of the status of a participant in hostilities to persons defending independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, they participated directly in and ensure the implementation of the anti-terrorist operation. From Irina Souslowy to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of immediate measures by law enforcement authorities and on the invocation of responsibility of individuals and the withdrawal of funds from the State budget of companies belonging to the immediate surroundings of Viktor Janukovič (Sergija Arbusov, Sergia Kluva, Andrija Kluva, Eduardo Stavitsky, Jurija Ivanyushenko, Viktor Yanukovič, Artema Pshonka, Alexia Azarov, Olenia Lukash, Igorja Kalinin, Dmitri Tabojnika, Andrija Portnov and others), he was helped in the usurpation of power, they are part of the tragic events of Majdan and the financing of Separatism. From Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to investigate human rights violations during protests in Winnica on December 6, 2014 and to prevent the persecution of its participants. From Alexander Oneshchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration, to prevent a reduction in the allowance for the prestige of teaching workers in Mironowski, Boguslawski, Rokitnian, Kagarlic and other parts of the Kyiv region. From Yuri Bublik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the status of compliance with the Ukrainian Law on the Cleanse of Power, the directors of the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office, whose powers are to release and/or initiate the release of persons to whom the prohibition applies, are listed in part three of article 1 of the Act. From Anton Kisse to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the situation in the area of road traffic through the link between the Forest Alexander and the Forest Elizabeth region of Tarutin district of Odessa, which is located in the Republic of Moldova. From Anton Kisse to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the continuation of a separate infantry battalion located in the city of Balgrad of Odessa. From Sergei Kaplin to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine to assess the actions of the investigating judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Viacheslav Podpalogo, in connection with the removal of the arrest from the property of Sergio Arbuzov. From Sergei Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an objective investigation into the incident involving the beating of the Poltava City Head Alexander Mama, deputy of the Poltava City Council of Alexander Shamota. From Michael Gołk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, to prevent electricity from being shut down in the Ukrainian population. From Michael Golk to the deputy head of the Ukrainian State Inspectorate for Consumer Protection to protect the rights of residents of the Comfort Town housing complex in Kiev. From Mikhail Gavriluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality test of the rental of the Boyarsk City Council of the Land, an area of 0.7 hectares, located in the area of Taras Shevchenk city park: Kyivska region, Kyivovo-Svetoshin district, Bojarka city, Bogdan Hmeljnicko Street, 72-B. From Ruslan Solvar and Jacob Besbah to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on the need to carry out a comprehensive examination of the circumstances set out in the address of Lydia Litwin, on the defence of her constitutional right to housing. From Ruslan Solvar and Jacob Besbah to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to protect the fundamental guarantees of citizens, where the Act on Social Protection of Children of War extends. From Yuri Bublik to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, to draw up emergency power cuts schedules and reports of consumers. From Andri Shinkovic to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on violent power cuts. From Nestor Schuffrić to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the non-use of the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine, steps have been taken to investigate the crime of the disappearance of Valentina Kovpan. From Stephen Ivakhiv to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of the criminal persecution of members of the fifty - first individual mechanized brigade. From Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the right to education of children living in the area of anti-terrorist operations. From Yuri Pavlenko to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine regarding the violation of the right to education of children with special needs. From Mikola Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of tender purchases and auctions, such as those conducted by the State Geology and Nadar of Ukraine. From Alexander Dekhtyarczuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent a halt to the budgetary establishment of the Plains region, the Public Shareholder Society. From Anatoly Kuzmenko to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine to restore the movement of the suburban electric train No.6331/6332 "Alexandria - Woznesensk-Alexandria". From Yuri Bereza to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, to bring the judges of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine to justice. From Bogdan Dubnević to the first Deputy Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the railway movement in the village of Podruki Pustomitov district of Lviv district. From Andria Shipka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of essential medicines for hypertensive patients. From Andrija Shipka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the implementation of the project "Water supply of the village of Sholokhovo in the Dnipropetra region of Nipopol". From Irina Friz to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the verification of the facts of the unsatisfactory living conditions, the financial and material security of Ukrainian military forces, who have maintained their allegiance to the Ukrainian military oath and were transferred from the Crimea Peninsula. From Alexi Lensky to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the use of immediate response measures to save the Kuhalnicki Lyman, which is in a state of environmental crisis, to address the issue of the announcement of Kuhalnicki Lyman territory as a zone of ecological emergency, to maintain the overall environmental balance of the Kualnicki Lyman and the organization of the Kualnicki National Natural Park. From Paul Rizanenek to the head of the commission from the restructuring of the State Agency for Land Resources, the first deputy head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre for the release from office of deputy head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine in the Kyiv region of Stanislav Gubin for violating the oath of a civil servant. From Yuri Boyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the State’s damage to individual oil products smuggling subjects. From Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the speedy and impartial investigation of criminal conduct in connection with the abuse of office and the obstruction of the free exercise by citizens of their electoral rights in 2012 by the head of the Montenegrin district administration, Michael Papiev. From Valentin Nichiporenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine to obtain a permit for the use of nadrama. From a group of national deputies (Timisha, Gorvati, and others). A total of 7 deputies to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the non-elimination of Consular Institutions in Sucava, Romania, and Prijeshev, Slovakia. From Stepan Kuba to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the problems of monetary credit and the risks of cash-free credit to the population. From Stepan Kuba to the Director, who is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals in respect of the Status of Payments of Guaranteeed Payments to Insolvent Bank Investors. From Paul Rizanenko to the head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine regarding the request to the Kyiv District Master Court for removal from the duties of the head of the Public Property Manager of the State Enterprise Radio Broadcasting Center of the Arbitral Supervisor Sergio Buličov. From Jacob Bezbach and Ruslan Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive investigation into the circumstances of the death of military officer Taras Goodima. From Jacob Bezbach and Ruslan Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the long-term failure to execute a court decision on alimony to support a minor child that has a significant impact on the provision of her needs. From Yuri Shapovalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the production activities of the private stock company Kremenchuck Steel Plant, the preservation of jobs and the social protection of factory workers. From Yuri Shapovalova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of land to military personnel participating in the ATO. From Valentino Didić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the passenger transport of the city of Marganza Dnipropetrovsk in the area of transport infringements and a comprehensive examination of the issue. From Yuri Lewchenk to the Prosecutor of Kiev, the National Architectural Control Inspectorate in Kiev, to provide information on the measures being taken to halt and dismantle the illegal construction of the lake bank in the park of Premoga in the Dniprov district of Kiev, and to bring responsibility to the guilty. From Taras Batenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for a dangerous ecological situation that took place in the territory of the city of New Division and its surrounding villages in the Lviv region, as a result of the activities of the Split State Mining and Chemical Company Sirca. From Taras Batenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine regarding the inclusion in Ukraine’s State Budget for 2015 of a subsidy for the capital repair of the road in the area from the city village of Split to the city of Novi Split (Lviv region). From Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of non-systematic power outages in the city of Odessa in social infrastructure, public authorities, local self - government, the city’s road transport system, which poses a daily danger to the city’s livelihood with millions of people, and the need for comprehensive measures to address this issue properly, as well as informing the population about the introduction of electricity saving schemes in the media, as well as the need to prevent the disconnection of critical infrastructure facilities. From Edward Matviychuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need for grants from the State Budget of Ukraine in 2015 to appropriate local budgets for the socio-economic development of individual areas to complete the work under the project of reconstruction of the South B microregion of 36 million dollars and reconstruction of the South A microregions, the South B and the South H of 172 million gravel of the Kyiv district of Odessa. From Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible misuse of budgetary resources. From Dmitri Link to the head of the public shareholders' association, the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine, on the situation that has arisen around the Mironov sugar plant of the Kyiv region and its credit liabilities to Ukreximbank. From Dmitri Link to the head of the Kyiv Economic Court to ensure that the bankruptcy case of the Society is dealt with with with with with a limited liability "WIK-R.S.F.".. From Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on violations of the laws of the Supreme Economic Court. From Oxana Prodane to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the payment of employees appointed to military service for recruitment. From Anton Heraszczenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the incomprehensible delay in the investigation of criminal conduct on the charge of the Kharkiv city head of Gennady Kernes in the kidnapping, beating and torture of members of Kharkiv's Eromaydan. From Sergei Rudik to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to provide electricity to the population of the Cherkas region. We have completed our parliamentary inquiries. Now, according to the Rules, I announce a break of 30 minutes and move on to a new agenda item. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] ..and by insisting on my colleagues, I will continue our meeting, move on to the "Variance" without interruption. Is it supported? Yes. Let's keep going. Then we continue the morning session. Yes. I'm announcing a recording on "The Raz." Please sign in. It's a "Rose" recording. Yes, please, Deputy Martovitchki Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u102	I'd like to give my word to my colleague Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u103	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u104	Good afternoon. Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm talking to all the people today who listen to what's going on at the Supreme Council. We've all come to this Parliament with high expectations that it will send signals from Parliament to unity, signal to society that the higher legislature will work within the framework of Ukrainian legislation and help the executive branch of power to resolve such complex problems as are today both in the economy and in political life. Unfortunately, what happened at the beginning of our session cannot be called democracy or compliance with Ukrainian legislation. What I mean. The creation of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine immediately violated several laws. First of all, the Ukrainian Law on Rules and Law on Parliamentary Committees. Today, the issue is not that people who respond to opposition receive leadership positions on the Committees of the Supreme Council. The point is that today no one has changed the 81st article of the Ukrainian Law on Rules, paragraph 4, which clearly states: "The allocations of posts take place to the actual number of national deputies." And if today in Ukraine one and a half million citizens voted in favour of the Opposition Block, those people have a legitimate right to represent their interests in these committees and in these positions. Moreover, a violation of the Ukrainian Committee Law, article 34, paragraph 4. And we need to talk here today not so much about the financial component, although here, in this article, there are questions and finances, but about the moral-ethic. What are you talking about? In the 4th article, there is a clear rule that in a committee composed of enna, there is a specific number of heads and deputies of the committee’s heads. Today, a decree that is not higher than the Ukrainian law made it possible to establish 51 positions as sole substitutes! 51 Today, a person works outside the law of Ukraine. I'm talking to all those who are in these positions today. Have the moral strength of will and give up these positions. Parliament will win. And you're the only one who's gonna win this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Yes. Next MP, Marchenko, please. He's got a German deputy behind him, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u106	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukrainian community! It's been a week of plenary sessions of the Supreme Council today, but neither am I, nor all the deputies in this room, and all the Ukrainians have not heard from the Prime Minister's speech yesterday on today's questions about the answers of the Cabinet of Ministers to any concrete steps to remedy the complex situations that are today in Ukraine. No one responded to those repeated lights. The Minister of Economics didn't even have a word to give his own plan of work, as Ukraine would generally be going to take the money. In yesterday's government program, Prime Minister Yatzenyuk, apart from the vague populist names and phrases, we didn't see anything. I would like to turn to the leadership of the Supreme Council first of all today from this rostrum. We cannot organize the work of the Supreme Council today in such a way that the entire Ukrainian community can see the helplessness of the Supreme Council, the helplessness, the failure of the members of the Supreme Council to act in solving the day - to - day problems. In Ukraine today, people are asking questions about financing educational institutions. Why? Because already in the city of Bila Church, teachers on unofficial orders are forced to take leave without saving their wages. The question is, Where will our workers, workers, guide their children when gardens, schools do not receive children of workers who go to work? The second important question is today. In general, the Ministry of Social Policy must provide clear information to people about how we will pay municipal tariffs, municipal services on January 1st, when there is no clear system of fiscal compensation. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u107	Thank you. The word is given to the German deputy. After him is Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u108	Germany, Opposition Block. Respectable colleagues. Why did I go to this rostrum? First of all, surprised, in a negative sense, by yesterday's document, which was so friendlyly adopted by our Parliament. It's about the program. Dear friends, did we not see that the President of Ukraine spoke yesterday? Or do we not have a President? On what grounds? This is done through programme documents, the usurpation of power and the usurpation of the power of the President of Ukraine. Will you see whose authority it is to decide on the question of amending the Constitution? Of course, the President. But we see that they are invading the judiciary, and the principle of the Fifth Constitution on the distribution of power is being violated. Why is there an executive body, the Cabinet of Ministers, before the judiciary? This is a straight path to dictatorship and the usurpation of power. Third. I would like to say that when the Programme of Action is formulated, the Constitution and its requirements must be followed. Article 116 states that the first responsibility of the Government is to protect the sovereignty and economic level and the second rights of citizens. I want to draw your attention, you won't find the word "citizens" or the territorial community in this program. Who does the government work for? Where are the famous promises, and where is decentralization? What they're working on is a software document, read, novels, novels, novels. What's the novel? The fact that they supported her was friendly. I've admitted that Lucenko's colleague here has said that no program, it's not a program, and we're silent. And the second question. Who's silent? The opposition bloc voted against it, and the coalition voted silently. I want to lead to the conclusion that the coalition today has circumcised status, the law, the regulation of this part has been repealed, and, as such, the power to be a parliamentary entity is not vested in the coalition, the MP factions. There are MP factions, there are committees and there are people's deputies, that's what the actors of the legislative initiatives are. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Sergio Rudik, followed by Deputy Andrew Keith.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u110	Sergei Rudik, 198th constituency, Cherkas region, member of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, we had a different view of the government's agenda yesterday, we approved most of it, I voted against it. But what I would like to say today, not about that, but about the fact that the prime minister and the government received theirs yesterday, and today we have only seen who? Vice Prime Minister and Deputy Minister. I had a question today again before Prime Minister Yatsenuk, and I don't think it's a respect for Parliament when, from day one, after the program was approved, the Prime Minister finds it inappropriate to attend government meetings. Secondly, I didn't see Avakov's interior minister in the hall, and we actually only see his advisor who became a national deputy -- that's very good, but we've got some questions left. I had a question, like a majorist who won a very difficult fight, after nine idiot courts, incriminated by the former Riga, who voted in favour of the January 16 laws. And the most painful thing. I've won, I've already become a national deputy, and you could ignore these things as if you were paying attention. But I feel it is my civic duty to pay attention to this. Because a lot of people didn't go through -- they didn't go through a bunch of voters, they didn't go through manipulations, they didn't go through manipulations, they didn't go through attempts to intervene in the Council system, which, if they don't get punished, would stay as they did in previous years. My colleagues and I planned to create a temporary commission of inquiry. But in this situation, I would appeal to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk if he were at a government meeting today. Why still in the Cherkas region, employees of the Smilian District and the city’s Kamen District Ministry remain in office. Why did those who directly converted the article of the Criminal Code into administrative violations and those who participated in the organization of the electorate in their version receive 85 fines? I believe that the next election will not take place in any way? By what system? Will these be open lists as declared by the absolute majority of us going to elections or some other format? But people need to know that they will sit behind bars for breaking the law. And I'd like to take this opportunity to tell those who thought they'd already escaped punishment in the Cherkas region, and I'll find you. And I'm asking you, fellow members of the national MPs, despite the fact that the time has passed, despite your being in this room, and someone has left to think about what the next election will be? Only the punishment of those who break the law will ensure that they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u111	Thank you. Deputy Keith gave the floor to Deputy Dubnevich. Let's have a word with you. The following is the national MP, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u112	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Jaroslav Dubnevich, strike group, Petra Poroshenko Block, Lvivščina. On Thursday 11 December, the Supreme Council members registered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the establishment of transit periods for road transport. The changes apply to the inadequacy of the Customs Code, which obliges Ukrainian citizens to drive every five days through the customs and foreign authorities of neighbouring countries. I don't think we need to explain who really needed this Ukrainian know-how. Because of such artificial restrictions, the authorities degrade the Ukrainians, preventing them from buying a normal used car. When a car costs less than in Ukraine, it is a disgrace to Ukraine. In addition to car manufacturers, this standard is available to customs, DAI workers, border guards, prosecutors, migration services, and all — those who want to feed on the closure of minor offences. As a result of this rule in 2012, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have been forced to cross the state border every five days, which, in turn, generates the burden of customs posts and queues at customs duty stations, exacerbates the environmental situation in connection with a large number of cars in one small area, facilitates bribery and corruption in customs authorities, DAI units and other IMF units, creates significant obstacles to business development in Ukraine, cuts by Ukrainian citizens working on foreign companies or engaged in entrepreneurial activities, forced once in five days to cross the state border. As a result, my fellow national deputies from the border regions of Ukraine and I registered a bill (1393). We propose that the transit transport rule be excluded for up to five days and that the transit rate be increased to 30 days. I'm convinced that this change will stimulate a domestic producer to modernize production and improve customer technology. I'm calling on all the heads of the profile committees to support this bill, because the Ukrainians really need it. We have to give every Ukrainian the opportunity to have a cheap one and come. Our Ukrainian citizens are waiting for this bill. I thank everyone who's willing to support this. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u113	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. He was given the word of two others. Prepare for the next National MP, Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u114	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I welcome the first truly strong strategic partnership of the United States at this time to threaten the very existence of the Ukrainian State. The unanimous approval by the United States Senate last night of the freedom support act in Ukraine is an important step in supporting and strengthening Ukraine’s security. This bill contains a series of fundamental provisions that Ukraine has sought from the United States for a long time: since the beginning of Russia’s armed aggression against our country. It includes the definition of Ukraine as a military ally outside NATO; the release of $350 million to Ukraine of military assistance in 2015, including the provision of air weapons, including anti-tank, armoured and unmanned aircraft; the promotion of Ukraine's reduced dependence on Russian gas, including through the purchase of reverse gas from Europe; assistance to Ukrainian internal refugees; and the granting of the right of the President of the United States to introduce new severe sanctions against Russia, including Gazprom, Rosobronexport and other companies. I have long criticized the U.S. Presidential Administration of Barack Obama for the languidness, incoherence and delay in supporting Ukraine, as well as the de facto distance from the security assurances given to Ukraine in the 1994 Budapest Memorandum. As expected, the recent decisive victory of the republicans in the interim elections to Congress gave some impetus to rethinking the positions of American authority and to the policy of deterrence of the aggressor, the revansist Putinian Russia, and to providing extensive assistance to Ukraine, which is at the front of the protection of the civilized world from the Kremlin’s expansionist plans. I have no doubt that the House of Representatives of the United States Congress will adopt this bill as soon as possible, and President Obama will sign it. Thus, Ukraine will receive strong legislative support to radically strengthen Ukraine’s defence against the Russian aggressor. I express my sincere gratitude to all American friends of Ukraine, particularly the drafters of the bill: Senators Corkek and Menedis, as well as the great friend of Ukraine, Senator McCain, who made a decisive contribution to the development and adoption of this important document. I hope that this law will only be the first real step in supporting Ukraine by our partners in the United States. I propose to consider further possible actions, including the real introduction of deep and comprehensive economic sanctions to a laudable aggressor, the promotion of Ukraine's accelerated acceptance of NATO, in particular the immediate deployment of a plan of action for NATO membership to Ukraine, and the provision of adequate financial and economic compensation by the signing countries of the Budapest Memorandum, both for the massive economic and material losses that Ukraine has suffered as a result of the failure to comply with this memorandum and the aggression of the Russian Federation. In particular, we consider it necessary to write off part of Ukraine’s external debt, so we are truly grateful for the first step in supporting Ukraine. At the same time, we are convinced that we can expect more. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u115	Thank you. National MP Nestor Schufrich is invited to speak. Follow him, National Deputy Mikhailo Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u116	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Of course, Ukraine is now experiencing very difficult difficult times. We especially understood that yesterday when we saw a wonderful speech by the leadership of our government and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Of course, it's great that we want to tell the truth, but we have to understand today that, in the words "I against populism," there should be no things that kill our citizens. The government’s initiative to raise the retirement age to 65 is certainly indignant and disturbing. I have a question. Why did they stop halfway? So let's raise the retirement age to 80 years, and then we don't even have to form the pension fund. Why today we are talking about war in the country, there is much to be written down for war. And it is certainly difficult today to explain to people that six months ago we were talking about transporting coal into our country in order to survive the winter. Since June we have warned about this, unfortunately no one has heard us, and winter has come very unexpectedly. And we're burning gas, the same expensive Russian gas that we paid $380 million 10 days ago and we're burning it instead of cheap coal. Which, if not from Donbas, could have brought from Vietnam from the same Africa, but it was necessary to carry instead of waiting for our generation to stop. And what starts today in the first 15 years is the disconnection of people from electricity and the threat of being in the dark and in the cold is also a reality. And the other new ones were our government -- free education to the ninth grade, including, and then pay for education. Is that a constitutional norm? We guarantee free secondary education to our citizens, and we have to ensure that. Today is a very difficult time for Ukraine, and we need to unite. Unite yourself in order to make this not a simple way in which our country is located. And we need to hear each other and work for every citizen, no matter where he lives and what language he speaks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u117	Thank you very much. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Mikhail Golovka, followed by National Deputy Mikhailo Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u118	Glory to Ukraine! Mikhailo Golovko, U.S.A. Freedom, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear MPs, colleagues! I would like to highlight the very important issue that many Ukrainians are in pain right now -- it's a massive disconnection of the population from electricity. People are now virtually hostage to this vacchanal, which, without warning, at any time shuts off electricity. People get stuck in elevators, it takes an hour to sit. Operations where lights are turned off in hospitals are interrupted. In schools, in gardens, practically in villages up to 6 hours, people are without light. Children have to do homework with candles, and they learn to do practical homework in cold homes. So this situation is catastrophic for our nation. And what's most unfortunate is that Ukraine is one of the largest electricity exporters. We provide light in part of Eastern Europe, we export electricity abroad. And the question. And who's profiting from that? Why is it that we are the biggest exporters now forced to shut down electricity for our own population? Because there are a number of private structures like DTEK that are controlled by the Ahmeds who buy 40 dollars per megawatt in the Ukrenergo State and sell about 50 dollars per megawatt abroad. At the same time, Ukraine is making a deal with the Russian Federation and is willing to buy in Russia for about $75 to $80 per megawatt. It's called double the cost. What's the point? Why we buy twice as much electricity abroad. Why do we sell our own electricity for nothing to private entities that sell abroad and profit from it and turn off our own people's lights? And that's why this question is now important for the security of the state, number one. We have to do everything we can. Therefore, the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, the Attorney-General must now take all measures to verify all those schemes for the laundering of electricity, to introduce a moratorium on the export of electricity abroad. We already have a bill. Our All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, MPs, have registered in Parliament a bill No. 1235 on a moratorium on power-off for the population. And that's the main thing. At this time of energy crisis, we must, society, at all, ban the moratorium on the export of electricity abroad. All of this electricity now has to work for the economy of the Ukrainian State, to develop its own people. Enterprises stop, people don't work, people don't pay taxes, people don't get paid, they don't pay the pension fund. We're practically bringing the state to collapse. Now we're looking for coal in PARA, in other countries abroad. At the same time, where we have enough power to transfer to alternative sources of energy. So, society, I urge you to support the All-U.S. Freedom Union to vote on our ruling. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u119	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Michael Papiev. Following him is the national deputy Oleg Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailo Papiev, Opposition Block. On Friday, when requests and statements by Ukrainian national deputies are announced, there would be more presence in the Ukrainian National Deputies ’ Hall. And this is an indication of the interest of MPs in making their own thoughts and seeing the situation in our country to the electorate. And the attitude of the Ukrainian national deputies toward each other. Dear colleagues, let us consult with you after all. Because these are both the interests of the coalition and the interests of the opposition -- restoring people's trust in the Supreme Council as an institution of the legislative body of our country. So what happened today during questions to the government? The first is that it's not a very comfortable format. In fact, you can check everyone’s quality of our day. You're going to try and think about what the government officials in this rostrum said and tell it. It's a simple experiment that gives an answer. And another request I have to the chairman of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nevertheless, we should urge ministers and government members to treat the hall with respect. Because today it wasn't very pleasant to hear, before the Minister of Housing and Utilities spoke, when he began to give a general assessment to the national deputies of Ukraine and discipline them. We need to remind the minister that the Cabinet of Ministers is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine reporting to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and there are questions of ethics, and they need to be followed. Dear colleagues, and another request. Requests for us to be able to include in the agenda those bills that are primarily aimed at the lives of our people and to preserve at least the level that is today. And I would like to improve, but I've read the government's programme of activities, and it's only worse. Yesterday, by the way, in the news towers, journalists discussed what kind of name could be given to this program of government activity, and there was one such thesis that it would be nice to call the government's program of activity "and the living will envy the dead." So today we need to avoid lowering the standard of living of our people. And the Opposition Block insists that, in the order of the day-to-day plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, eight drafts of the Opposition Block, dealing with the recovery of child pay, the difference between pension reform, salary index and pensions, should be put in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u121	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Oleg Osuhovsky. Following him is the national MP, Andriy Shipko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u122	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the deputies, brothers and sisters of Ukraine! Now it's the most important topic in Ukrainian society -- it's the security of our country and the protection of our external enemy. Of course, we thank the United States Senate for the support they gave to Ukraine. But also one of the more strategic tasks of Ukraine is to join NATO. And as the head of the delegation, I have a lot of communication with parliamentarians at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. They clearly claim that there was one chance in Ukraine to join NATO, that between 2005 and 2010, during the run-up period of the state of Yushchenko, the government of Timoshenko, but unfortunately there were fightings, then there were misunderstandings and there was no before. And in view of the fighting, Yanukovic came to power, who destroyed the Ukrainian army, the Ukrainian economy, and previously conducted through parliament to make Ukraine a nonblock state. Clearly, there are many speculations about this and many particular lobbyists in Russia and Europe now seem to say that Ukraine has no chance of joining NATO. But did the NATO Parliamentary Assembly raise a clear question to the Secretary-General of NATO: does Ukraine have a chance to become a NATO member and be a NATO member? He gave a clear answer: yes, Ukraine has a good chance of being a member in the coming years, but if Ukraine does the right steps it has today. and standards have particularly NATO, these are both re-arms and the fight against corruption. It is clear that we had just after the Dignity Revolution to submit a bill and he was even in Parliament, we had to vote on the lifting of our Ukraine's non-block status. Indeed, today there are a great many nations, MPs, and, in particular, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly are experiencing and assisting Ukraine. In particular, our delegation prepared an address. And I personally handed over to each head of the delegation from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for the assistance of the Ukrainian army, these are both vests and helmets and clothes. And we already have the first results. You know, there's constant aid coming from Canada, that's about $11 million. And now the first planes are coming, especially the first one was plane 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u123	Let me finish, but follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u124	November 28, where thousands of sets of warm clothes and shoes were brought. And we hope that Ukraine will still be a NATO member. And we will do, national deputies, everything to protect us and protect the territorial integrity of our nation. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u125	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Andria Shipka, the next national MP after him, Anton Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u126	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovsk district, 35th district of Nicopol, Ordjonikidze Nicopolsk district Madam Head, honourable national deputies, dear voters, I am not the first time in this rostrum that I have raised questions about the inclusion of the city of Ordjonikidze in the Dnipropetrov region in the 30km observation zone around the Zaporozhye AES. I am approached every month by hundreds of people in the city of Ordjonikidze, who are my constituents. People complain about the poor ecological situation in the region and health problems. Statistics speak for themselves. Thirty - six percent of the people in Ordjonikidze have chronic respiratory problems. Oncology is a pain in the ass. I want to ask officials who have been unable to answer one simple question since July 2014 whether or not the people of the city of Ordjonikidze will receive social support. How many more people have to get sick so the city can still be included in a 30-mile zone. I would like to remind you that Ukrainian legislation, in particular the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, gives residents of observation zones the right to social support. But the city’s inhabitants, located next to the Zaporez nuclear power plant, cannot exercise this right. Basically, since Soviet times, the city has not been included in the observation zone, although part of it, according to the documents, is within a 30-mile radius. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka. It is in your competence that it is possible to help the people of Ordjonikidze to obtain, I emphasize, their legal rights. More than 5,000 cities have long been waiting to be included in the list of administrative and territorial units in which measures are being taken to compensate for the socio-economic risk of the population. I demand that in the shortest possible time, I consider this issue in order to be able to predict the necessary funds in the 2015 State Budget. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u127	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Anton Kisse. And the next one is the National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, dear voters! Just over 7 months ago, tragic events occurred in the city of Odessa on 2 May, resulting in the death of 48 people. An investigative commission had been established by the previous Parliament, which had held 10 meetings, more than 50 meetings, and produced a large amount of material, which was being considered by the investigative bodies today. But as we observe the process that is taking place, we see that the investigation is now under way. And those who are on the defendants' bench today are far from in line with the actions that have taken place, in our view, those events have not been seen by the instigators and organizers of the events that have taken place. Regrettably, the Commission of Inquiry has completed its work on the grounds that the work of Parliament VII has been suspended. My appeal, the appeal of our "Economic Development" MP is a registered order to establish a relevant commission of inquiry by our Parliament on 2 May. I would like to take this opportunity to request the leadership of Parliament to bring this matter to the next session to the attention of the Commission, which is being initiated by Mr. Skorik and Mr. Vilkul, and our group, to introduce the meeting room. And second, which I would like to draw attention to, almost in the near future, to 20 numbers, we will be given a draft budget for the next 2015. But I remember the promises made by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the former Prime Minister and the current one, always concerning the decentralization of power, the transfer of authority to local governments, the transfer of authority and financial instruments and powers, regiments, councils. There are legislative texts that have been drafted by the previous Parliament. I think that the adoption of the budget should, however, consider the transfer of authority and then consider the budget. Thus, we will indeed comply with what is required today by our communities, otherwise they are merely declarations. And listening to Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk's statement yesterday about today's consideration of this issue, I don't think it's very helpful to address the President. Today, the coalition has more than 300 votes, take responsibility, make proposals, and I can tell you that the second part of the room will accept the proposal. And the last. I fully support those speeches, especially the Head, on energy security. Make a schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u129	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy Yuri Lewchenka, followed by the National Deputy Oleg Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u130	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd constituency, Kiev. Deputies! Dear Ukrainians watching us! I would like to focus now on what we heard yesterday, during the presentation of the government program, and on some points that, let's say, were not mentioned in the media. Yes, everyone is talking about these cuts, as unfortunately the government is now imposing on the country the following year: reduction of pensions, reduction of social benefits, scholarships, education expenses, health expenses, and so on. At the same time, very little is said about how to fill the budget, about what we actually talked about yesterday, about closing off offshore schemes, such as the denunciation of the Treaty with the Republic of Cyprus, about the real fight against transfer pricing. Because we have a law today, but it is not being enforced by the government. The introduction of a real, real progressive scale on. the progressive scale of taxation of the income of natural persons and so on, and so on, and so on, that's how we fill the budget, that's very few people talk about. But there is another huge problem. There's a problem that we heard yesterday that we need to privatize a thousand 200 state-owned enterprises with a mass of strategic enterprises. And that's what's happening right now is that today, for example, there's no heat in people, there's no light in people, because many of the state enterprises have been privatized before. Here's an example of Kiev, the Kievenergo company, which was essentially stolen from the state, stolen from the Chinese, and which is now controlled by Renata Ahmetova, who wants to include heat, doesn't want to include which controls the energy supply in Kiev. How can such companies be allowed to be privately owned? It's totally unacceptable. So in addition to saying that we need to find sources of budget filling, that we need to close off offshore schemes, that we need to introduce fair taxes, not push small and medium-sized businesses and the most disadvantaged sections of the population, that we need to fight an oligarchic class. We also have to raise questions today about the return of strategic enterprises to state ownership, first and foremost, of the fuel-energy complex, energy-generating, energy-distributing companies. Companies like: Kiyevenergo, let's talk more about the DTEK, which is the company of the leading terrorist financier in the East, Renata Ahmtova. On what grounds does this person now own such huge assets that, by the way, are now due to his own ownership and are causing, in particular, these power cuts all over the country. So the Freedom faction will insist that Parliament raise the issue of nationalization of these enterprises, and we will also demand that the government use them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u131	Let me finish, but follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u132	We will require the government to use all available mechanisms to get these enterprises back into state ownership. Because, in particular, most of them were illegally privatized. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u133	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Kulinić, the People's Deputy Volodymyr Aresonkov. You don't? Okay. Then I invite the people’s deputy Aresonkova, followed by the national deputy Hanna Gopko, to give her the word of the national deputy Ostrekov and the national deputy Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u134	Dear Oksano Ivanovno! Dear fellow MPs! Vladimir Arechenkov "Block Petra Poroshenka", 64 constituency of Žitomirščina. I represent the constituency of which the main part of the population has to do with that holiday, which, more specifically, is the day we're going to celebrate on Sunday, which is the day of the windshield. I mean, I represent a lot of people who refer to the category of people who were affected by the accident at Chernobyl. In the territory of my hometown of Korosten, almost 100 percent of the population is the largest city of those affected by the accident at CHAES. In the territory of the Gitomir region, nearly 400,000 of these citizens. And I would like to point out today that yesterday's speech by the Prime Minister, which presented the Government's Action Programme, did not give us an answer to how, let's say, the issue of reducing social programs in relation to the category of citizens that I am talking about right now In general, legislation that deals with Chernobyl issues, or that regulates the social status of citizens affected by an accident in CHEUS, the issue of the development of these areas is, let's say, long enough since its adoption (since the early 1990s, this legislation was adopted). Today, many of its statutes are out of date, and they need improvement. So me and a group of colleagues are now preparing changes to this legislation at all. We have a lot of issues to settle. But today I would like to draw your attention to two points, especially those related to support, to the social protection of children living in polluted areas or areas that have suffered, especially those related to nutrition and health. In recent years, these tender procedures, conducted at the level of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, have made full and high-quality child nutrition impossible. The following year is planned at all, and we hear a lot of talk about eliminating these benefits. I'd like to ask for your support on this issue. And what's going on with the healing and the liquidators and the children's population. The question is very important, so we will also take the legislative initiative and ask for the support of colleagues in these matters. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u135	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Anna Gopko. She is followed by a national MP, Denis Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u136	Dear Mrs. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would like to begin my talk with the pleasant news that was already being discussed in the hall today. All night long, we called out congressmen, senators, so that after a very important law had been passed in the Senate, there would also be support in the House of Representatives. And our diplomacy, along with our diaspora, has done everything possible and impossible to make such a historic decision in the United States. And so, on behalf of the Self-Help Party, also from the rest of the MPs who made the effort to thank the congressmen, to thank the senators, to thank all the people, the Ukrainians who from the diaspora for making the effort. Why? [[Applause]] This is a historic decision that now requires the signature of U.S. President Barack Obama and that is why the Ukrainian Parliament, speaker and each of us use our contacts to get this very important signature. Why it's important to the country, because aside from financial support, it's not a loan, it's a real aid in the form of $1 billion in the United States. This law, which calls the Ukraine Freedom Support Act, contains many other very important things. Among these things, this is the recognition of Ukraine as an ally of the United States of America outside NATO. Another very important moment is the help of the United States to reduce Ukraine's dependence on Russian gas. The third possible important moment is Ukraine's military assistance, as well as the temporary relocation of people, which is extremely important to solve some of the problems in the East. The fourth point in this law is the opposition to Russian propaganda. Americans are ready to increase the number of articles in post - Soviet countries about the situation in Ukraine, and this will help us and our information policy to resist extremely aggressive Russian propaganda. Other important points are the sanctions for companies like Rosobronexport and Gazprom if they interfere with gas supply. There are also sanctions for persons and the impossibility of giving them visas. That is, we have seen in this law the tremendous support of the United States. Now our job is to justify this trust, because in Ukraine now is a historic opportunity to become a strong state. And I would also like to say that of the conversations that we had during this week's trip to Washington with National Deputy Sergei Lechchenk, we had meetings with, inter alia, the office of several congressmen, they were excited about the situation that is in Ukraine and many of them were talking about whether we would justify their hopes and whether there would be money and all the help that is being stolen in Ukraine. So in parallel with the optimism that we are, we should be aware of the risks. And the task of Parliament is now to make sure that the 2015 budget is approved in a transparent way with the participation of all representatives of committees and ministries. The 2015 budget should meet international requirements; this budget should have a very clear energy sector reform; this budget should have real anti-corruption mechanisms; this budget should have support for innovative business, small and medium-sized business in 2015. The United States, which now sees Ukraine as a geopolitical partner, taking into account our key role in this region, they expect that there will be an understanding of the real actions between the President and the Prime Minister so that there will be no mistakes that were made in 2005 when we lost the historic chance of building a strong state. Therefore, I have a very simple call for these key reform bills, especially the hope of reforming the judiciary, to be in Parliament at last and on committees in the daytime, it is a matter of restoring confidence and returning investment to Ukraine. I would like to send a very simple message that we don't have time and that the entire international community is even more informed about what we think. And no attempt to show the situation as it is, or anything else, will help us to continue to receive help. Therefore, the call is very simple to get everyone involved as quickly as possible in the 2015 budget and also to establish close cooperation between the three branches of government so that Ukraine can finally become on the path of reform. Because the actions of the United States, they also send a signal to other global partners and also create opportunities for us to get support, especially in the European Union. And this is very important for us, given the situation, the pre-defoult situation in Ukraine's economy, and the hopes that all Ukrainians are now relying on for concrete reforms. And thank you very much. I also want to say that next week there will be several congressional delegations in Ukraine and all the deputies our Committee on Foreign Affairs invites us to actively join in building a real close partnership with our partners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u137	Thank you. Instead of the national MP Silantjeva, the national MP, Oksana Korchinska, is the national deputy, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u138	Good day to you all! Oksana Korczynska, Oleg Laska Radical Party. I enjoy speaking after Hanna Hopko because we are both members of the OHMATDIT Trusteeship Council. This is the largest hospital in the country where 22,000 are the most difficult, in general, to treat sick children. Where 14 U.S. centers and the most seriously ill children are the only hospitals where they can get medical care. Our request to the Cabinet of Ministers must be taken into account in Ukraine’s 2015 budget for the construction of the National Children’s Hospital OHMATDIT. Because the body, which stood and was demolished, was built. So three OHMATDIT shells are being demolished, and the children are now in extremely small rooms, hoping for the only one on the hull, which is almost 7,000 square feet [7,000 sq m] there. It's been standing and it hasn't been built for a year. It's destroying itself. 400 million nations have invested in the construction of money, not preserved. And if we can't continue construction next year, we'll betray all the children of Ukraine. We realize that now ATO, we understand that boys need help. Our faction will do anything to ensure that no ATO fighter, and we know it's a war, doesn't need a war anyway. And we'll do everything we can to make sure there's no trouble. And we're going to do everything we can to make him medically secure. However, we cannot leave the children of Ukraine without the only highly qualified hospital in Ukraine. We need to build this hospital. This is a promise that has been made, including a coalition. We're going to the Cabinet of Ministers, our finance minister, who promised to take a look at our question and set up a separate article on the construction of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT. I hope that all our coalition colleagues will support and will not allow us to accept the budget if this article is not provided. Thank you all for your support. We have to remember that children are our future. Their health is our future. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u139	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Halasyuk. He is followed by national deputy Igor Šurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u140	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Mrs. Irina, dear fellow national MPs! You and I will soon form a state budget for Ukraine for the following year. I would like to highlight one very important question, even if I don't tell the key question. You know there are plans to cut government budget expenditure. Of course, it is important to do so. But in doing so, it is important to understand the risks, and we need to understand how this can be done in the best way possible. The point is that the reduction of government budget expenditure is not only a panacea. And at a time when there's a very difficult socio-economic situation and when the economy is stagnant, a reduction in the cost of the state budget could lead to us falling into a systemic and deep recession. If we look at economic statistics with you, we'll see that through the budget of Ukraine, through the state budget, through local budgets, and if we take all state corporations, including Naftogaz, we have about 48 percent of the gross domestic product. Whether this is a higher indicator and whether this is the main goal of the budget to shorten this indicator. No, it is not critically high and cannot be the goal of reducing government spending as such. Why? Because in countries like Austria, Sweden, France, Denmark, Finland, for example, this is much higher than 60 percent. But they live far better than we do. It's not the percentage of government budget expenditure, it's the level of GDP that our state has. We have a level of GDP, i.e. the well-being of every Ukrainian is 4-5 times lower than in Europe. This is an urgent problem that needs to be corrected. How can it be corrected? And it can be corrected as did other countries, such as China, Brazil, Malaysia, Taiwan, Poland, Turkey, and so forth. They include channelling public budget expenditure on development, crediting industrial production, restoring industry, and protecting a national producer. They created jobs that brought taxes that brought economic growth and prosperity. It's very important to know the three parameters that we have today are critical. For when you and I consider the budget, we need to keep them in mind. It is said that the nations today are too many in the economy. No, not enough in the economy today. Because the share of the state's capital investment in Ukraine is less than half the percent. In other countries, that's 15 to 16 percent. This is a critical setback that will never allow us to break out of the circle of poverty if such a situation persists. Gross accumulation of capital investment is 8.5 percent. Belarus is almost 40 percent. China has 44 percent. In Asia, that's 40 percent. So the question is, can we do that with these parameters?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u141	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, so I urge you to look at the draft budget, and the government I call upon in the design of the budget, to take this into account very carefully, to take into account the positions that we have put together in the coalition agreement: to protect the national producer, to create a credit-expert agency that will support our exporting companies, to make loans to the real sector, to manufacturing enterprises that the cost of this must be put into the budget. Because if we don't, we really have a government action programme that will turn into a survival plan for winter, and we won't know what to do in the spring. So please join this vision and support the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u143	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Igor Shurma, followed by the national deputy Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u144	Madam Chairman, the honourable are present in the hall! I would like to remind you all that the work of the Ukrainian national deputy in the session hall ends with the day’s work. Now comes the performances and is obliged today to take all the part in the discussion of the 'Variable'. I want to thank a handful of national MPs directly, including our self-help political opponents, who sit and hear about the outside problems, the Radical Party representatives and the individual people who discuss human issues in the "Variable" section. I want to address the issue of health care. Whoever is in any constituency in which territory of Ukraine is not, he knows that his health problems will be among the first. Reforms that await health care I can't touch this program of government, like one of the leaders of the coalition on Facebook on the Internet wrote that it's a ice cream or student halture, and then I voted for it. At first, I was outraged at how people who voted for the Prime Minister supported the government, in words that were not opposed to it, all over Ukraine to make an effort to reform. But when I look at what's going on in health reform, I'm sure I'll agree with it, even though from a cultural point of view, I won't allow myself to hear these things, because it's probably us today that's the authority. If we're talking about health reform, if you look at two points out of four, it's clean money and clean tenders. If anyone wants to make this right, hand over the health function to the Ministry of Economics, dot it. This is not a health reform. Working as deputy to the city’s head and deputy head of the district administration, we have been able to decentralize the funds for the purchase of insulins through former Health Minister Polachenko, and the point of corruption has been placed. A number of decisive steps are needed to implement reforms. I have great doubts that a person who has come to this position by the profession of historians is capable of changing something in a very conservative field like medicine. But nevertheless, there is a person who has a loan of trust. I have one small question. I don't want to criticize this man without knowing her. But ask two questions, where experts in the Kharkiv region helped Georgia reform a year ago. Today, maternal mortality in Georgia is more than double that in Ukraine. This is the World Health Organization’s website. Male mortality is twice as high as in Ukraine. And I'd like to know how it's going to be reformed, even though we have this level here in Ukraine. There are many questions to the minister, both you and us. Let us all try to make a difference in health care together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u145	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Jaroslav Dubnevic. Is it? I've got it written down twice. There is no people's deputy Dubnevich. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the National Deputy John Krulk. After him, prepare for the People’s Deputy Kishkar Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u146	Ivan Krulko, Fatherland faction, Motherland Youth. Dear colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, surely the "Fatherland" faction supports the decision of the Congress of the United States regarding the new status Ukraine will acquire in relations with our ally in the United States. The "Fatherland" faction has consistently addressed the United States in order to actually grant this status to our nation. At the same time, while Ukraine has not been given a clear definition of what is happening in the East, it has not been called war, at least those who have voluntarily begun to solve the problems of food supply, the equipment of the army, the equipment of the lives of the displaced people, to recognize and give them opportunities, at the legislative level, to work properly. This is about a whole army of volunteers who have become a real backdrop, a very reliable backdrop, for the Ukrainian military. The Act on Volunteering does not simply encourage volunteerism, but rather sets a number of limits to reflect it. The wave of social and charitable activity of millions of Ukrainian active citizens has become the norm over the past year, but it still has no fair definition at the legislative level. The law in force brings about the rise in social responsibility and civic awareness that Ukrainians have shown during tragic events. The law in force contains a number of restrictions, such as making it more difficult to become a volunteer organization, and it limits the age of activity. The age of volunteers. It also complicates the identification of an authorized central authority in the field of volunteering, commitment to compulsory volunteer insurance, and so forth. We need to remove these restrictions for volunteering, clarify the rights and responsibilities of volunteers, organizations, and institutions involved in volunteering. This, in turn, will help to improve the quality of volunteering. So we need to review the outdated Act on Volunteering. What's more, there was a bill registered yesterday in the Supreme Council under number 1408 that amends the Law on Volunteering and really meets the need for time. He was supported by national MPs of virtually all factions that form part of the coalition. The bill is also supported by a number of social organizations that are specialists and carry out this volunteer work. We are obliged to create favourable conditions for millions of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u147	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u148	For millions of Ukrainian citizens who are willing to contribute at their own expense, at work, and at times to charity. This is a specific example of the building up of civil society. I believe that this bill should be considered and supported in the Ukrainian Parliament as early as the current year. Moreover, he is included in this session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u149	Thank you. I invite you to hear the words of the national deputy Paul Kishkar, national deputy Yuri Shapowalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u150	Thank you, everyone who's waiting for my sleep. I am pleased that in fact people who are interested in changing, including the ability to listen to each other, have remained in this room. We know that security and defense, Mr. Bérezük adds always and self-governance, have remained and are, and will be, for Self-help, the main pillars of this fundamental work. I'm going to tell you, by going away from such a general context, pretty dirty stories, very narrow as I think, I'm going to tell you about an event in my life that happened yesterday. I had the pleasure of meeting the great ones, for me personally, for the people, for Mr. Goodyak, for Mr. Marinovich, and having some discussion about the perception of the conflict that's going on in the East, essentially, on this semi-genetic one, I would say, equal. We were trying, in a brief conversation, to find the difference between a Russian and a Ukrainian, to find the paradigm of the movement that would eventually lead us out of this conflict. Yes, it's not a simple question, there's no definite answer to God, there's probably no God, it's somewhere in our souls. I, you know, yes, there is a profoundly different person in shape who talks about finding the truth in himself and seeking a solution to the conflict in the soul. It's kind of ridiculous, I guess. But it seems to me that this war is still a war of ideology, a war that takes place mostly in the heads of people, not in the military, not in the weapons or in the use of them. Believe me, we have already won with fierce patriotism among the Ukrainian army. Today we have a completely new Ukraine, we are these people who are left there, now in the hall, we are the apathetic creators of the new Ukraine, and I am very grateful for that. I'm two of them: the restoration of parliamentaryism, which is very important to us, as for the self-help faction and for me personally. Because all the institutions of the President, of Parliament, of the public organizations, of the Cabinet of Ministers are important, but Parliament is the bearers of culture, of parliamentary culture, of personal culture. What do you mean, I'd know how? Is it proactive to mention what it is called when vodka is used here? Cold coffee and cold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u151	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u152	Literally, 30 seconds away from these stereotyped things, from disgusting and disgusting things, believe me, I don't care. I've seen a lot of things, heavy things on the front, I see it right here, I'm ready to fight this right here, in these rooms, and I'm going to let that happen. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. I would very much like to talk about the mutual respect of one another. I'm glad you did. 20 seconds, please. Respect for each other in terms of what we talked about yesterday with Marinovich and Goodyak, mutual respect for each other. I don't like to be honest, but Mr Papiev is here, and I don't like your interpretation of the people who voted for you, too many, you know, a hundred times already. I don't think so. I'm going to ask, I'm going to take it seriously to each other, to look for these touchy at the genetic level of the community, and where the clear, big letters are written -- Ukraine. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u153	I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Shapovalova, followed by the national MP Barna, who was given the floor by the national deputy Jurinec. None. Then I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u154	I want health to all my colleagues, voters, Ukrainian citizens, and those who hear on the TV cameras. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come here, to the Supreme Council, on a new ippostas, thanks to Maidan, who has shown us confidence. So I address everyone, regardless of political expectation, regardless of your political leaders, but those who really lived in Midan, lived in Middan, lived in the ATO who helped ATO, helped Midan, we must all unite and protect both the people and Ukraine. So we really need to go together to save our nation, especially those oligarchic clans who want to usurp power. And when we listened to the government programme yesterday, yes, a lot of flaws -- please, we gave you the opportunity, we formed your government that you wanted, you have those committees, although they have strangely many oligarchs, but the pre-election program was supposed to be that business and power were supposed to be, in an idea, separate. Please work so that there is not as much dissonance as there was after the Orange Revolution: The President, on the one hand, the Supreme Council, on the other, the Prime Minister, on the other, there was no one to ask. So we have to do everything we can to make the program not anti-national, but anti-oligarchial, so that the budget is not wasteful, but most effective, to ask the most oligarchs to pay back the money they stole, not to take pensions from poor people or students and so on. Because we also have personal pensions that can be rescinded and compared to ordinary people, including personal wages. That's because the previous presidents, who have a lot of that there, state security, don't even deserve it. Therefore, we should all be together only with our conscience and with our people. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u155	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the German People's Deputy. He's already done the show. Then I would like to invite you to the floor of national deputy Alexi Lensky. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's "Rose," it's "Rizzle," you don't have to. People's deputy Lensky. None. National MP Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! The spirit, the desire is very important. And thank you, colleague Kishkaru, for reminding us here and for the country that actually hears us in any case, directly or indirectly. But action, if there is no action by spirit and by desire, is empty. And we talked at the session about what actions are always done below. And I want to repeat that we have a creeping but unstoppable crisis in the country of local self-government: power on the ground does not match the spirit and the desires and actions of people. Therefore, we must act immediately to change the Constitution. And I urge all democratic factions and coalitions to start this work on Monday. We have today agreed with the leader of the Radical Party faction that on Monday we will initiate a meeting of coalition leaders to discuss this issue at a pragmatic level in the legal administration of this Supreme Council. Second, it's very important. We have to show efficiency. Today, the Self-Help faction, along with others, has registered the Law on the Radical Reduction of the Number of Deputies on Local Councils: three as a minimum. Because it will not only be a formal shortcut – it will automatically raise the responsibility of each defender for his image, for his spirit and for his desire. So, honourable members of the Supreme Council, these are the pragmatic actions that we have to do every day. And today I'm going to join everyone who's talked about it today. In this room on Friday, the spirit of knowledge of one another is indeed to be heard. He greets a few of us today, so I'm going to address the Head of the Supreme Council that not visiting this very important day is serious, I would say administrative crime. Failure to perform the functions of the National Deputies should be considered on any such special ethical or professional committees. Thank you very much and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u157	Thank you and welcome to the floor of the National Deputy Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u158	Andrew Illenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 215th constituency, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues who have come to an end. I'd like to say that, you know, I'm having a rainy day because I was a member of the previous call, and last time I called, it was the same situation, and on Friday, no one was reaching the end of the session, except for the Freedom faction and a few other deputies. I want to thank all the people's deputies who are present, but we still have to change Parliament now. You know, that's exactly what I'm saying and I'm saying that we're talking about the renewal of power, the reintroduction of power, so let's start with a small one, visiting everyone without excluding Parliamentary meetings. Let's start with not even a small one anymore, and I think more serious things like buttoning. Let's face it, the problem of buttoning has remained in this Supreme Council, as it has come from the past and the saddest of all, that this is the buttoning of the political forces that have been actively speaking and actively blocking the rostrum, and they have been actively talking about that buttoning, it's just a spit in the face of every person who demands democracy in Ukraine and parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Unfortunately, it goes on and it's said, it's even blocked by the rostrums, but no one's making any conclusions. Instead of punishing evil, even in trifles, it turns out to be far scarier things. I'd like to say that, you know, this is today's meeting, I understand Friday, but, guys, now is not the time for peace, now the war, now the dollar's rate has jumped twice. Order of the day session of Parliament. Let us take a look at this agenda: zero questions that are being put to the vote today. For two weeks now, Parliament has been working, the elections have taken place, please remind me, a month and a half ago, it would be time to make some concrete decisions. The committees have already been set up, that they should be working all the time now, these committees should be making decisions here in the hall all the time, there should be discussions about these issues and making decisions, people are expecting us today. And you know, I want to get back to where I started. The new Parliament is a new principle of work and that is justice. You know, when I listened to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday and the government program, there was a lot of talk about the need for everyone to stretch their belts, the difficult times and so forth, the war is clear. But I'm in favour of justice, if the Ukrainian is poor twice this year, I have a question or poverty, as a minimum of twice the oligarchs, or impoverished, at least twice the people we're used to calling big capital or actual owners of Ukrainian politics and economics. And here's the question that needs to be answered. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-12-12-m0.u159	Thank you very much. We have completed our consideration of the various issues of the order of the day. And in conclusion, because it's already sounded from a couple of fellow national deputies, and that's what I'm able to observe. I think that is what this Parliament, the Parliament of this call, needs to be corrected. Yeah? We cannot continue to work if we observe empty benches in the session room especially at such a difficult time. This is irresponsible. And more than that. I would like to say that, dear colleagues, I remind you that next week you work in factions, committees and commissions. But I also refer to MPs and committee heads, above all not to take this process formally. I have also heard, and I know that many committees still maintain such an old tendency — to approach committee meetings fairly formally. So I ask you to carefully conduct all the committee procedures that are necessary, in view of what we will soon require, in general, the transparency of the full and the meetings of the committees, and perhaps even their broadcasts. And I also remind you that the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, December 23, at 10 a.m. So I declare that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. I declare, along with the fact that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Thank you.
