ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats, get ready for registration. Traditionally, I'm informing you that today's birthday is celebrated by the following national deputies: Pazinak Vasil Stepanovich, Stupak Ivan Ivanovich, Suhi Jaroslav Mihajlovich. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Shipko Andri Fedorovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President of the Ukrainian World Congress and President of the Canadian-Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce Zenon Poticny are visiting Ukraine. Now the tall guests are in the diplomatic bed of the session hall, let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Honourable People's Deputies, 25 March 2014, the Central Electoral Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Revenka Anatolia Dmitrovic, elected on 28 October 2014 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, which is included in the election list of the UDA political party, the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reform. In accordance with article 70 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Revenko Anatoly Dmitrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. As it moves to the rostrum, I ask the Supreme Council to register, please turn on the "Council" system. One minute, let the MPs register, and then you'll read the oath. [[10:05:48]] There were 303 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council declares its meeting open, and I ask that you read out the oath of a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u3	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, according to tradition, we have the opportunity to speak today as national deputies. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please. Double Valérie, Fatherland faction, please. He gives the word to Mikola Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention and attention to our citizens, which has just been 60 days before the start of the presidential election campaign. In fact, we are in the position of the presidential election campaign, and as head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, I wanted to draw attention to some of the issues that we need to find out in order to achieve our main goal in 60 days. Our main goal is democratic, honest presidential elections, which would allow no country to doubt, no expert and no Ukrainian citizen, that such elections were fair and democratic. This mission, which we have to control for 60 days, is extremely important. So first, I want to inform all the structures of the Cabinet of Ministers. That, according to a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are not allowed to check the media during the pre-election campaign. So that we don't have a traditional approach when some in the election campaign from tax, fire, or other services come to the media. There's no check-up until the end of the election campaign. The second is related to the management of the media. My request is the same, because I can already see that enough material is posted on television, in print media on a so-called shadow basis, when some compromising material against a political party or a candidate is paid off, but not marked as political advertising. I am absolutely convinced that we have a chance to hold presidential elections as a fight for ideas, not a fight for money or a fight for compromises. So I ask all media leaders to sign an agreement on the principles of media action during the presidential election campaign in order not to allow dirt, opposition, but to discuss Ukraine's future. My appeal to the presidential candidates, and most of them are our fellow national deputies. As you work in the Supreme Council, you also need to understand the responsibility that you are not only a candidate for the Presidents and you are thinking about how to score points, but you are responsible for what is happening in Ukraine, and you are responsible for Ukraine's future. Therefore, my request is to a principled pro-Ukrainian position, not a narrow party position. I know we're going to have a lot of presidential candidates, obviously more than ten. And it doesn't mind these candidates, but I think, from a moral and political point of view, from candidates who will take less than one percent, it would be desirable for them to complete a political career, because so many people are going to the presidents that a little bit of the media, and we're familiar. And finally, this is my offer. Scientists once said that it doesn't matter who's president, it's important to restrict the President. We've done this before. So it doesn't matter to me right now who's going to be president, it's important that we use this President in an honest, democratic way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u7	National MP Greenewecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u8	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The latest developments have put in order a daily set of questions that require urgent answers today. The first is the question of responsibility. A lost part of the territory of the state. But the actual loss of military fleets, large numbers of weapons and ammunition worth billions of dollars today is no less significant, so someone has to be personally responsible for the failure to act during the crisis, for the timely orders, for the delay in disposing parts. I offer an honest answer to this question to government officials, and the South Operational Command of the Land Army needs to be reinstated immediately in Odessa. The second question is how to build further relations with Russia. Any opposition ends with truce, so it's going to take diplomatic action in one way or another, but to start with, we have to stop the information wars on both sides. Today we are experiencing the consequences of a lack of proper attention to information security issues, low-quality projections, lack of collective intelligence, insufficient positioning of our country abroad. That's why I'm addressing my fellow MPs. We must reject political ambitions, signal society and the outside environment that Ukrainian political elites are separate from radical nationalism, xenophobia and ready to have a government built not by a sad quota principle, but by a sign of professionalism. Question three. It's a question of decentralization of power. Clearly, the reform of local authorities must take place within the framework of the constitutional process, and it takes time. But within the framework of current legislation, steps can be taken to strengthen local authority. I propose a kind of stress test for both the Supreme Council and the government. First, article 43, paragraph 31, of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, "Exclusive Powers of the District and District Council: To make proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers on the candidates for the head of the local government." Let us obey the law in force. Secondly, I have introduced legislation to restore free economic zones in Odessa and the Rhine Seaports. I will note that this is not about creating new free economic zones, but about restoring the benefits and powers of the local authorities that existed before 2005, and they justified themselves. I suggest you consider them urgently. Thirdly, the local government needs to be given the right to receive loans under local budget guarantees. This practice of its own time has produced positive results, and I am sure it can be used today in crisis situations. These steps will now give local authorities what they lack — authority, resources, and responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratchenko's strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians! You know, yesterday there was information that Norway had joined those countries that were temporarily suspending military cooperation with the Russian Federation. The whole world supports Ukraine and does not recognize annexation. At the same time, Ukraine itself continues to have more than 20 military contracts with the aggressor country. There are so many antifascists in this room. They want to remind them of the main slogan of World War II: "All for the front, all for the victory." And to say that today our front is an economic and information front. That's the only way we can defeat an aggressor country. And today, when the whole country is ready to mobilize and give something back to Crimea, which is Ukrainian, it's probably important to do the same for the party that put so much on these antifascism plates and today continues to do completely different things. We want the strike party to address the government and ask the government to review the military doctrine of Ukraine as quickly as possible, where it clearly states that our main threat today is the aggressor country, and this is the Russian Federation. It's also obvious that we realize that those military factories that also have government orders to produce weapons for an aggressor country that can be directed against Ukrainians should protect their jobs through our common search for new jobs and new orders for these factories. Therefore, the new authorities and we are ready to join them should appeal to the countries of the European Union for technical assistance and compensation for these enterprises, which should terminate any military contracts with the Russian Federation. Any contact we have with Russia today has to start with one word: we don't recognize the annexation of Crimea. This is especially true of the politicians and national deputies of Ukraine. What a surprise it was to read that Mr. Kiwalov, who heads a group of friends of "Ukraine-Russia" in the Inter-Parliamentary, allowed himself this Tuesday to move on behalf of a group of friends in the Russian Parliament and talk about friendship between the two parliaments. I very much ask that the speaker of the Supreme Council deal with this situation and point out that a group of friends did not authorize Mr. Kiwalov to represent the interests of the Ukrainian Parliament there. He can represent himself exclusively. And to start all of our claims and then report it to the Ukrainian people, we need to start by not admitting to the annexation of Crimea. And that also applies to the Academy Channel, which is broadcast in Odessa and belongs to you, Sire, where the separatist videos go. And the last. We will, of course, be able to overcome this situation when we demonstrate reforms and a real fight against corruption. Today, like all of our party members, I have been approached by teachers, doctors, small entrepreneurs who tell terrible stories, like every month they paid the beatings of the previous government, every school in the country had to pay two thousand dollars in the area of these fights. And they ask us what we should do now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Acting President of Ukraine, on behalf of our faction, we appeal to you, to the government to give a public guarantee to all our Ukrainians that the battles are over. No school and no hospital today is supposed to pay any minister, no Royon and so forth. Then we can overcome corruption, get close to the European Union, and finally get back to Crimea. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u13	The word is given to Sergey Soboljevo. He conveys the word to Andrew Pavlovski, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u14	Dear fellow countrymen! Now, this week, the government is preparing an anti-crisis change to the state budget of Ukraine, where, given the difficult state of our economy, we should, frankly, anticipate a reduction in certain budget expenditures. At the same time, I would like to reassure millions of our pensioners, low-income citizens, to say that the government is doing everything possible and impossible to make pensions, scholarships, salaries to budgeters, social assistance to the underprivileged as they are expected to be paid in full and on time. Everything else that we're accused of is actually misinformation and information war against Ukraine and the Russian provokers. Don't believe it, all payments will be paid on time and in full. However, it is important to say that everyone will have to stretch their belts. And at the same time, I'd like to say that it's necessary to make sure that the belts not only are drawn by ordinary citizens, but also by those who receive them are the richest citizens in the country, they get the biggest profits in our country, the so-called oligarchs. I therefore suggest that, along with the changes to the state budget, the following bills have been considered. The bill on increasing rent for natural nadramas is the smallest in Ukraine compared to all European countries and is even smaller by several times than in neighbouring Russia. Similarly, we need to consider a bill, an honor to be co-authored by me, is a congregation of offshore operations. The time has come for the new authorities to close the so - called black offshore holes that cause tens of billions of dollars to flow each year. Why do they leak out there? Because the oligarchs don't want to donate a penny to the government budget or social funds. It's time to go out with these offshore zones. And the third. We need to consider a bill on the so-called Rich Tax Act, on taxation of luxury items. And there's no need to be afraid to introduce progressive taxation in Ukraine from citizens' incomes, because if we go to Europe, there are such taxes in almost every European country, and in the United States they are. So, my friends, with the budget, we're also looking at these bills that expand both the tax base and are just in terms of simple human justice. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u15	Thank you. People's MP of the Yanks, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, please. He conveys the word to the national deputy of Orphan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u16	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. A respected society is evidently in need of decisive change. The country needs social, economic, national reforms. But these changes to Ukraine’s European prospects are possible only if we are able to protect our territorial integrity and independence. Last week, you and I voted to allocate additional funds to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Unfortunately, these funds are still unallocated, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine should pay attention so that the funds can be directed to the Armed Forces of Ukraine as soon as possible. The topic was raised today during the performance that the Ukrainian concert "Ucroboropprom" continues to supply military supplies to the Russian aggressor country. Moreover, Ukraine continues to serve the nuclear potential of the Russian Federation, and Russia today is threatening the nuclear depth of the world. Obviously, it's unacceptable, obviously, that before the end of the annexation and aggression of the Russian Federation, any military cooperation should be suspended, no contracts should be implemented. I believe and we believe that today all Ucrobanprom enterprises should be directly subordinated to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The Ukrainian army, which has not been modernized in the last 23 years, must be modernized at a very fast pace. Today, Ucroprom covers only 10 percent of the needs of the Ukrainian army. For the time being, we need to turn over all of his activities so that he can fully cover our army. Next. I've put together with my colleagues a draft decree on further measures to strengthen the country's resilience. Today, we realize that no one but ourselves will protect our Ukraine. That's why we have to re-establish the system of military patriotic education in schools. We are obliged to restore the military pulpit system in WUZ. We are obliged to create a system, a broad system of reserves, when every Ukrainian citizen could defend his own state. In view of the announcement of mobilization in Ukraine, we have faced some problems, and Parliament must urgently resolve these problems. It's saving jobs by the reserves that call for troops, it's enabling those who are already out and cannot be called, and these are quite affluent people who have participated in military activities, particularly Afghan soldiers. We have to raise them from 40 to 55 to allow them to protect the army. Similarly, we must create conditions for re-arming the Ukrainian army and increase annual funding for arms. And most importantly, today we need to take urgent measures to clean up the organs of the Ukrainian authorities, the Armed Forces, and the forces of the Fifth Column, the agents of the KGB and the FSB. Our Security Service should stop sabotage, which is now quite common in the power structures, and immediately publish the lists of FSB agents, the KGB, who still hold our posts. Because this is the fifth column that beats in the back of the Ukrainian army. Today we need to do everything we can to support the Ukrainian army.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the word is given to the non-fractional deputy of Kuzmenek. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u18	I'd like to pass it on to Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u19	Please, the national MP of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! In many cities in eastern Ukraine, including Gorlovka, a city where there was an armed uprising in 1905, there were rallies. Residents want and have the right to express their views on what is happening in the country. First. People require a specific response and a report on the tragic events that took place in February in the capital of Ukraine. Who shot, who organized, who took the blame, and who took the responsibility? And there should be no provocation in this regard, it is a matter of power. Second. The inhabitants of Ukraine at the rallies require public discussion on the following issues. The first is the empowerment of local governments. The second is to define the foreign policy of our country: the European Union, the Economic Union, the Customs Union or the multisectorality of our country. Determine the status of the Russian language in Ukraine. We have no right to repeat past mistakes, and people must therefore express their views. Parliament's function is to do everything in the legal field so that the All-Ukrainian referendum recognizes the whole world. Let's move on. Regrettably, there is a discussion in the Government today about budget cuts, reduced public support by industry. As a man who worked for many years in the coal industry, I express to you the position of miners. They are very concerned about the economic situation. In doing so, they work, they go down to the mine every day, they risk their lives to get the coal they need, and they have to get their wages for it. Failure to pay to miners, halting and closing mines today is not only a threat to the country's energy security and rising unemployment, but also a path to social discontent, clashes in cities where coal enterprises are practically the only urban enterprises. Yesterday at our meeting, we did not adopt a bill on the stable work of enterprises, including the coal industry, and this could have bad consequences. It's a short-sighted policy of ours. What, did we miss the rocking helmets on the asphalt? During the years of independence, we had revolutions, we had revolutions, but today our citizens don't need them, political battalions and the struggle for power. And the last. The Party of the Regions has been and remains a political force with the support of our citizens. A party of regions in opposition, but our task to date is not to fight the current power, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u22	But our task for today is not to fight against the current power, nor to criticize the actions of the opponents, we have our constituents who have chosen us, and we will defend their interests, their peace, peace and stability. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u23	The word is given to the People's Deputy Frostenk, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u24	Hello, please pass the word to Ponomarev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u25	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u26	Dear Chairman, colleagues, I rarely use this rostrum since I have nothing to say in principle. It's just that the electorates of my district, who have delegated me here, don't like the word tribune, posse and throat. But if a major like me comes out here to talk, that means it's enough, or maybe it's just burning. Yesterday, one of our colleagues here was speaking, talking about how he was protecting the borders of our country, which he heroized in Crimea, Chongari. I don't know what place he was in Chongara, my friends and the residents of that area can't remember him. I know that last week, I spent three days with the border guards, with General Kowali, who was appointed yesterday, with others, engaged in the basic suppression of local fires, the fires between border guards and the villagers. And believe me, the causes of these fires were not global causes, not political tourists, but basic stupidity, which has no boundaries, the stupidity of local importance. Believe me, there were no fewer of these situations on the scale of the Crimea. And when the colonel general is 4.5 hours old, the people's MP calms people down so that there are no extremist manifestations and solves this problem, there are speeches from that room and a statement from other political mouths that ruin all work. How can you not understand that there aren't real castaways out there? There may be 10 percent of people who are really pro-Russian. But every statement about the disengagement of communists, the Party of the Regions, about someone being taken to Midan, adds one percent at best that they don't like. It's about why I came here. Maybe you know you started digging trenches. I'm not responsible for other areas, I'm responsible for 150 kilometers east of the border. It's a memento of nonsense. Do you understand? Four and a half feet wide, four and a half feet long, I'm a mountain engineer, I understand what I'm talking about. Stirred by a black man walking through the fields of pastures, in the fields of farmers. That is, the land will not be used soon, for a hundred years in the drylands. Nine kilometers across the area, I've been faced with caterpillar techniques, I understand, for tanks, for caterpillar technology, it's not an obstacle, most importantly, it's all pieces. Stop this nonsense, Alexander Valentinovich. Today, in Donetsk district, in the Ovruč region again began digging. At least agree with the farmers, with the village councils. We helped the people who helped build the flags that rolled the wells there, helped with the food, we just put it on. And these statements make hostages, hostages of those guys who are actually doing their duty. Thank you for your hard work!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u27	I'd like to comment on Mr. Ponomarov's speech. The thing is, unfortunately, there are groups of Russian Federation Armed Forces, including large numbers of armoured equipment, near the eastern, northern, and southern borders of our country. And today, Ukraine is being protected, and the border is being protected, including tank trenches. And I don't see any problems here for people who care about the protection of their homeland. Please, Kupreyczyk, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u29	Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u30	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, I have to say that now, from Crimea, a mass export of cultural values, artistic values, which are in the museums of Crimea Autonomy, particularly from my information, is now being exported to the paintings of Aywazovsky, which were stored in the Crimean museums, and other values. And you're driving to Hermitage and other Russian museums right now. In this case, we have another theft by the invaders who entered the Crimea today. And in general, if we see from history, nothing really happens, because the whole story of Moscow has started with theft. And it began and is accompanied by a violation of the main Christian commandment: not to steal. And let's remember that the first big theft took place when the son of Moscow's founder Yuri Dolgorukov -- Andri Bogobobski stole the Highland icon from Bogateri and carried it to me a hundred Vladimirs. It was the first theft that happened and she did. And after that, it all started out in a pile. Then there were so many things that were stolen from us. In particular, Peter I stole the name because Kiev’s Russia was not in Moscow. Then our lands were stolen, our culture was stolen, the lives of people were stolen during the destruction of the peasants, during famines, during repression. They've just stolen another one of our lands. They've stolen Crimea. And you know it shouldn't be there, but let's all say, we all know that God sees everything. And justice, it will be restored. And it's going to be returned to Ukraine, and I think it's going to start with the return to Ukraine of the Supreme Icon to the Bogater, and it's going to be returned necessarily because it's true. When ships are now being stolen, when Ukrainian activists are now being abducted, when cultural values are being stolen, I think we need to urgently adopt all the laws necessary to protect or in the future return of these things. In particular, I now call on UNESCO to preserve Hersones, who today is under attack by the barbarians who entered our territory today, entered Crimea today. And I am sure that the truth will still prevail because the one with whom God triumphs. And God is with Ukraine today. This was proved by all the events in Maidan. And you will see that Ukraine will soon win and Crimea will be returned to our land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're practically out of time, but I can't help but be the last to speak to Jaroslav Sukhoma on his birthday today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, for the first time in the third time, birthday is in the hall, looking into your eyes, smiling at you who wants to. If you don't want to wear your lips, but I love you all, I respect you. Jaroslav Suhiy, Zaporozhye City, 74th District, MP's Economic Development Group. And our group, and I'm the first deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, we've been anxious to hear from the government about the possibility of the State Budget Sequester. We understand very well that such actions will be hit first and foremost in the social sphere and that they are both so poor and balanced. Of course, the Sequestre will hurt the financial support of our civil servants. The person who worked in the workplace will confirm what I have said. They still have a small salary there, and without that class and internship allowance, it's going to be a small amount of money. But I'm talking about something else. It is quite clear that if the State budget, at the stage of its formation, allows for an exaggeration of income over expenditure, a Sequester is needed. But, fellow Members, I'm authorized to say on behalf of the parliamentary group: no steps, no real steps to boost the economy, no new jobs, no higher productivity, no developing productive powers, no sequentials will do anything. We can sell property now: state residences, cars, and so forth. This is a once-in-a-lifetime action. And then I have this question. We've tried this a lot. Who will sell the state park, such as Kabminu, at what price? And who's going to buy those cars? Today, the secondary market for motor vehicles stands, he died, people don't have money. That's why it's not going to give social policy anything, it's going to give us one thing to ask the government. And here, a colleague of Dombrowski has already spoken, said, "We are not enemies, we are allies of the government who took on such a heavy load today." But let the government eventually introduce legislation aimed at moving the economy into an investment, innovative development path. Colleagues who know history and who are interested in the history of Ukraine are our Mikhailo Ivanovich Tugay-Baranovsky – the first Minister of Finance of the Ukrainian People's Republic has proposed this model, and the Swedish model of socialism lives and thrives and flourishes. We talk a lot about it, we're not taking any steps in that direction. So I think we need to focus and concentrate on economic issues. Well, remember the last time you said the last time in this room was "labour productivity," "fundowage," "fundamentality," "how many machines work," "how many equipment are bought." It was only yesterday that Sergio Mishchenko finally said the wise words: Wait for the amount of money they had been paying. What's left? Who used them? We're taking a whole bunch of bills and we're looking at a little bit. And how they work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u34	I'm sorry. And the last initiative of our Group Economic Development. From the initiative of Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, who once worked in the border zone, led the troops that cover our border, I suggest that I be less concerned that countertank trenches have been torn. We offer to provide financial resources to those armies that stand and cover our borders with real things: night vision instruments, other equipment they need right now. Thank you for your attention. Thank you all for your congratulations. Hello, all of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, people gathered near the Supreme Council. The national deputy Ilik spoke to them, and for one minute I ask him to inform him. Turn on the microphone, please, on the street.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u36	Dear Ukrainians! Dear fellow national MPs! Roman Ilik, 121 constituency, Fatherland faction, Drogbychina. Everyone, when we went to work today, pointed out that a large number of people, representatives of public organizations, stand a white entrance to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and say that 1 thousand 607 people die every day in Ukraine. They die because government programs are not funded by the Ministry of Health. They die because there is no money for medicine. Not only from major oncosa but also from diseases such as tuberculosis, such as HIV, hepatitis, diabetes, and so on. With the participation of representatives of public organizations, two bills have been drafted that they have passed on to us and asked us to help register them here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Their point is to raise the stake on the excise congregation on tobacco and soft drinks in order to ensure that these costs enter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u38	to finance health issues, including the construction of Ohmatdit Hospital. I'm addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine, everyone who's involved in the registration of the bill. Please facilitate the registration of the relevant bills, and we are ready on the committee to consider all the issues and legislative initiatives that are being put forward. And I believe that they will be supported in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda. And the first question we have is a draft decision to release Tsush from office as head of the Antimonopoly Committee. I ask the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Antimonopoly Policy, Kugel Svetlana Volodymyrovyn, on the rostrum and briefly inform the Chamber on this matter. And all the deputies, I'm asking you to come to the hall. We'll make a decision by voting. The Secretariat, please make an announcement: All deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a vase of information. On February 27, Mr. Tsushko filed an application for release. This statement was considered on a committee, supported and therefore brought to the Supreme Council for consideration. But I would like to stress to you that I have been freed of my own personal desire and my first intercessor. Almost all the deputies were released, left alone. Today, the Antimonopoly Committee has virtually no leadership. And so to all those who think they have the opportunity not to make decisions on the personnel issues of liberation, I would like to point out that your party members, the Party of the Regions and the Communists, voted on this decision on the committee. And so regardless of whether we are in opposition or in power, we must today vote on this decision in order to give the Supreme Council the opportunity to put forward a candidate for consideration, for the appointment of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is now room to vote. I hope so. I beg you, is this a speech or a question? Let's give Yavorowski and Rudzkowski one minute of this, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. A man is leaving this position. And I can tell you that the only positive thing we can say to him in advance is that he volunteered. And the rest, in fact, the Antimonopoly Committee has not only been operating these years, but has also been blessing and enriching the Yanukovic family, and enriching our oligarchs, and monopolizing our economy. That's why I want to say again, "Gossip Girl, let her go." We are convinced that we need to choose a truly active, dynamic man, a fearless man, who will be handing over to our monopolies, who in Ukraine have grown so much as to this day and who receive such wealth, super-richness just because they are monopolists. Because of this, we support the release of Tsuk, his resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u43	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u44	I support the previous speaker that we should consider this issue today and satisfy the application. But also, Alexander Valentine's Day, I'm calling on you to give the new director the task of a systemless hearing to the Attorney-General's Office, the State Property Fund, a new manager, questions about how it turned out and whether or not it was property in one hand or another. Not allowing the Antimonopoly Committee to re-register property because it is about to cross over into some offshore or Russian company, and it will not be stolen back into state property. It's a fundamental question. And I'd like to ask you to give us a proper assignment today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u45	Thank you for the colleague's offer, but I will only be able to give the commission when the Supreme Council chooses a new leader and then the task will be completed immediately. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and support the vote of Order No. 4349 on the release of Tsushka Vasil Petrovich from office of head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[10:46:21]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, what is our problem? I've already invited MPs into the hall. Colleagues, please, let's have a few performances, I see, from factions. From Freedom, Kyle, the National MP. Please. By factions, please let the deputies see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u46	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask the chairman to invite the deputies into the hall, because this is a very important question. Because this "good-bye" Tsuko Vasil Petrovich, who was appointed in 2010, and we know very well what activities were done, how property was sold, how permits were given, and what happened to our state. So this is a very important question. There is a clear need to vote on his release. But in addition, I think it is necessary to assign to our strong authorities who would conduct a thorough examination of the activities of Tsushka in this position and in the shortest time given us the necessary information about all the thefts committed by this official. Once again, I urge the deputies to support the release of this odious man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u47	Thank you. I'll give you information on the factions. Now, you see, it's also on the screen. A party of regions -- only three deputies voted, and they take responsibility for Tsushka. Parenthood – 72, 24 – "STAMP" – 27 – "Economic development", 26 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 33, communists – 0, non-fractional – 29. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if a person makes an application for resignation or termination of his or her authority at his or her own request, such statements are satisfied in civilized countries, especially if they are of their own accord. I wanted to say something else, and that's why we have to vote. They're talking about personnel. I think it's not about the personnel, it's about the phenomenon of antimonopoly legislation and the antimonopoly committee. Who talks a lot about Tsushka, remember, and we used to work the antitrust committee the way he should work? Antimonopo. From the very beginning of his calling, his existence? The Antimonopoly Committee is a core, one of the main institutions that stands as a serber in the path of monopolization. The Antimonopoly Committee is competition. In the U.S., the Gates of Microsoft are deliberately divided to sort of compete with themselves. So whoever is assigned is going to be one of the key figures in Ukraine that is going to ensure competitiveness, competitiveness and the fight against monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u50	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues! There is a very simple decision to ensure that the Supreme Council does not have any individual national MPs, a systematic absence of individual national deputies in the Hall, which makes it impossible to make such important decisions as this. I have delivered to you, Your Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, an appeal for you to give me the appropriate form established by law to collect signatures, to amend the Constitution and to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Rules on the recall of the National Deputy through five missed sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that this decision will be an examination for everyone without the exception of the national MP present in the hall. Five latrines -- and we're throwing out the door of the Supreme Board of Nardepas with his mandate. Please be in urgent order.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u51	I support you, distinguished national deputies, and I ask that you receive signed letters to collect signatures. Dear colleagues, Deputy Bondar, and let's make a decision. I see a lot of deputies are already in the hall. And Deputy Zharavsky, and then we can take the risk. Okay. Please. Turn on the microphone, please. Not Bondarev, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! I ask that we, however, take a closer look at the order of the day of our sessions, our meetings. So tomorrow's request, let's do a very productive day. There are many anti-corruption bills that have been drafted in the agricultural sector, in other directions. There are issues that we have long needed from the population, citizens in the districts -- laws on inheritance, which we have already talked about more than once, about simplification and so on. Bills to restore confidence in the judiciary. That is, the illustration, the review and authority, the re-election of judges, the administration, and so on. I'm asking you, let's get a normal day order for tomorrow so people can really see tomorrow is a very productive day. And the second part is what it is about the army. What is involved in the army, if there is an urgent need to fund. Because there's information from districts that people are collecting food, people are collecting clothes. Well, we just have to run it through the budget once, to fund and do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u53	I understand the offer, I'll comment right away. Tomorrow we will begin our work day with the Prime Minister's report on the anti-corruption package of laws passed by the government. As far as the army is concerned, despite enormous funding problems, with resources, one billion dollars has been allocated for the needs of our Armed Forces and military formations, such as the National Guard and the Border Guards. This is the first serious tranche within the budget changes we've accepted with you in support of the army. I'm asking the people's deputy Zuravsky to listen. And let's try to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the mechanism for recalling a national MP is not in line with the functioning of the Constitution. And as much as I can remember, in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism, there was no occasion when a wanderer was deprived of his mandate. Although there were such national MPs in our Parliament, they were not poor, who had been in the session room once or twice throughout the entire cadence. But the issue is relevant and can be resolved when a new constitution is adopted. That's my offer. We have our own newspaper, Voice of Ukraine. In the Voice of Ukraine, you can print the names of the biggest walkers among the national MPs every week. And as a result, let's say for a year or a session, we could hand over the bass to the biggest walker. It will be morally, morally, to pressure the deputy to walk and work, and to receive the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm addressing factions and MPs in the first place. Let's get our deputies to work properly. The whole country is looking at Parliament. And when a country asks questions about the dissolution of parliament, there is no need to be surprised. I'm asking you to redefine, this is a personnel issue, it doesn't need to be, we can vote at least ten times. I ask, fellow citizens, once again, to decide on the support of the decision on discharge from the post of head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Vasil Tsushka for his, I emphasize, his own wishes. And I'm talking to the representatives of the Party of the region who came to me and said that we should go back to the Energy Security Act that didn't go through yesterday in Parliament. As you work, I don't think there's any desire in most people or anyone to go back to those laws. Because you're politically involved, you're refusing to vote. Please, I'm asking you a question for a vote. Decree 4349 is the basis and generally. Please be supportive. [[10:55:30.]] For 238. The factions, please. Regions 3 (understand position), Fatherhood – 78, 28 – Impact, 30 – Economic Development, Sovereign Ukraine – 29, 33 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 37 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, let's take one more humane issue, we need to update the National Bank Council. And I ask the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking to inform the Tribunal about the draft Decision on the Liberation of Members of the Board of the National Bank. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u56	Dear Head, dear colleagues! According to article 85, paragraph 19, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints and relieves half of the membership of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine through the adoption of the relevant decision. The term of office of members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine is 7 years. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decree 560 (January 11, 2007) appointed six members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine, whose term of office ended on January 11, 2014. Taking into account article 10 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to adopt a decree on the release of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine on the basis of the conclusion of their terms of reference. As a result of the discussion of the matter at the March 18 Committee, a decision was taken to approve the above - mentioned draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, do you understand the point? I ask you to take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please support the draft Decision on the release of members of the National Bank Board (project number 4425) by adopting it as a basis and as a whole. Please include the "Council" system and determine how to vote, support the project as a whole. Please. [[10:57:52]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 75, Impact 24, Economic Development 32, Sovereign European Ukraine 29, Freedom 32, Communist 0, non-fractional 39. Dear colleagues, let's go over the draft laws in the first reading. You will have before you a draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Guests" (to extend the right to housing for military personnel, members of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs). This project is very relevant in the context of what is happening today in the country. Please, the author of the project, National Deputy Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. Project number 1016.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u58	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, rightly say in the people, "Until the thunder is warm, the man will cross." This law was passed on 12.12.2012, on the first day of the seventh vocation, although it was introduced on the sixth vocation, registered on the first day. Why are we looking at him now? And because the events that are now taking place in Crimea and on Ukraine’s borders have exposed the enormous problems of the military and internal affairs. What has been going on so far? Today, there is a law that provides that civilians living in hostels for more than five years have the right to privatize it. But military and coworkers of internal affairs do not have this right. Because this law does not apply to them. So people of the second, third, fourth category, kind, whatever you want to call them. And that's why I'm grateful to those committees, which are both Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania and Kilinkarov, where the two committees immediately, from the beginning of the seventh call, have reviewed them and sent them to the Supreme Council for immediate consideration. But only now is the time. Unfortunately, the time is coming for those bills when there is nowhere to be done. Because the media are constantly showing how military officials are being evicted from the dormitory, how they are being wronged, how they are now addressing the Ministry of Defence, all institutions and the Supreme Council when this law is finally passed. When do we compare them to people who are not military personnel? And this injustice must be resolved once and for all today. I understand that there are two issues that we can reconcile to the second reading, although we can reconcile them with the word today, because the scientific expertise clearly stated that if these two words are there, two sentences can be inserted, it can be accepted in general. But if it is not acceptable today as a whole, I ask you to shorten the deadline for the second reading to 7 days. So, MPs, I'm asking today all the factions left over to adopt this bill and vote together. As long as I have some time, I won't take 10 minutes of your attention, but I still want to emphasize what six years apart from this law, I'm stressing what the MPs said yesterday. Because I'm saying that when I speak alone, it's one reaction when other MPs say, they're supporting those bills that need to be adopted immediately. And this law had to be adopted two years ago. So I want to remind you again of those bills that came up today, yesterday, yesterday, and a few days ago, and they're not put to the vote, they're so-called inheritance laws. And who wouldn't tell me who didn't tell me, I'll do it every time, and I'll ask all the deputies, all the Ukrainian citizens, to send a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: why aren't these laws treated? To the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Minister of Justice of Petrenko: why is he being harassed, these bills? And because it's money, it's not in the Ukraine budget, it's not in the Ukraine budget, it's in the notaries and the evaluators, it doesn't matter in the budget. Why are the two problems not solved, the decision not to have an alternative to rural areas, to form an inheritance or a notary, or to the head of a silage? I propose six months for it to come into force, and this bill comes into force. In six months, a rabbit can also be taught to smoke. Moreover, the head of the silage to properly shape the inheritance and have access to the Trees. And the second problem. If we have a zero bet for the first category, why for the second category, why can't we make the same zero bet for the grandchildren? This is huge money, five percent, for the budget? I'm telling you why this isn't happening because there are now evaluators, notaries, those corruption schemes that are working in Ukraine today that want to lead these corruption schemes. Millions of dollars are now being offered so that these bills will not be passed today. And those who are yelling today are doing everything they can to lead these corrupt schemes. And whatever times I've been shown, go to the voters and explain why you don't put these bills, why most people don't do it today. So please support this bill and, Alexander Valentine's Day, don't leave what you promised, put these bills to the vote now. The hall is to be determined. You'll see how many votes tomorrow: more than 300. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to brief you on behalf of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Saldo Vladimir Vasilovich. Please. And you can sign up from factions to performances when there is such a desire. I'm asking the deputies to come to the hall. As soon as we discuss the laws, the MPs don't care and they leave the hall. Invite me to the voting room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Our committee discussed the proposed amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act and concluded that this bill must be supported as quickly as possible. Because, in fact, as Sergey Mishchenko said, there are many military personnel and those who have served in the internal forces, law enforcement agencies, many years living in hostels and have no right to privatize this residence. Although they had to be provided with housing in accordance with legislation before, they had to do so after their service had been completed. So this bill is very, very relevant today. Our committee supported him, and we share the view of the bill's author that maybe even accept it now as a basis and as a whole. If the Hall supports it, our committee will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to speak on this matter? Yes. Let's write it down quickly from the factions. Please make your statement in three minutes. Sign up. People's MP Lapina, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u62	I'd like you to pass Kirilenka on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u63	Please give the floor to the Deputy People's Party of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u64	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." Dear voters, dear colleagues! Indeed, this law is not vast, and there is nothing to break, but today we must vote on the basis and in general. There is literally one phrase, but in this phrase much is hidden for modern Ukraine. Because right now we have not only a military problem associated with the temporary occupation of Crimea but a military humanitarian problem. Because, of course, the parts that are overblocked should serve together, they should get prospects for service, they should get recognition, which is already happening, from the Ukrainian people, but they should also get socio-humanitarian support. That's why we're talking about troopers and members of the Armed Forces and the Ukrainian Navy. It's supposed to go as low as possible. But, dear colleagues, what hostels?Oh, my God! These guys, who are from the Marine Brigade in Theodosia, the Kostine Olshansky sailors, from the Tornople Corvette, from the Chercassie Tramp, they have to get all the necessary socio-economic conditions, because, under the circumstances of the environment, occupation and hostile action against them, they were able to save the honor of the Armed Forces, the honor of the fleet and the honor of Ukraine, by showing endurance, courage and attracting views, without exaggeration, of the entire civilized world. So they should not be in dormitories, but they should be in apartments at the new location of the service. And it should be for all those tens of thousands who are currently unable to obtain such housing while serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And this is a question that needs to be addressed in the first place, like all issues related to the complex of humanitarian problems that are now emerging in the Crimea. Yes, Crimea is temporarily occupied. But Ukraine’s jurisdiction, according to our decision and the decision of the entire civilised world, continues to extend to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and Ukraine’s citizens remain. 32 percent just took part in the referendum. 32! So 70 percent didn't go to an illegal referendum, they don't want Russian citizenship, but they want Ukraine to remember them. I didn't forget the payments, I didn't forget the pensions, I gave the opportunity to go to Crimea, and in the case of getting out of Crimea to get this help, to get housing, and to continue feeling like Ukrainian citizens, because that situation that now will never be forever, and Crimea will certainly become Ukrainian again. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u65	The word is given to the People's Deputy Agaphony.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u67	Please turn on the microphone of the Chumak People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u68	National Deputy Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear colleagues! I would like to say that perhaps the purpose of this law is very important: to provide housing for military personnel at any point where they do not serve. But I'm a military officer myself, and I want to tell you that my first real residence was only in the rank of Lieutenant Colonel after 16 years of service. I mean, in principle, the state should provide soldiers with real housing, not dormitories. Moreover, for today’s day, dormitories with military personnel have the status of service housing. By thus taking away the service housing for privatization, we may simply not be able to obtain service housing for those military personnel who will come to military service in exchange for those who will be released. More than that. Think of it: If we are able to privatize hostels, which is usually one room in a dormitory, a maximum of two, for a family of 4-5 people, we will, in principle, establish such a status that officers, flags, military personnel, who have very large families, will not be able to obtain housing elsewhere or to obtain housing that should be granted to them in accordance with the Law on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Their Families. It is this law that regulates housing for military personnel, housing for permanent residence, and not just a dormitory. I want to think to everyone, maybe we should re-establish the housing program for the military. It may be necessary to renovate the service housing program for military personnel rather than fortify members of the military to stay in dormitories. Realize that this is not the home that our military personnel, who today have enormous physical and psychological burdens, should be counting on. I ask you very much to consider before adopting this law. I think he's here today, and he needs to be accepted in completely different texts. It's just that it's good to give military personnel housing for permanent use, it's good to build housing for military personnel, not in dormitories. I'm against this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think the author of the law wants to comment on this in the sense that this is a purely voluntary form. And, of course, no one is going to force a military man who is able to get an apartment to privatize housing. But those who want to do so must do so. Yes, Sergey Grigorovitch? That's right, thank you. I'll finally give you a chance to comment. Please, Kilincarov, the Ukraine Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u70	Dear People's Deputies, we have considered this bill on the committee. We believe that this bill has been introduced in a timely manner, taking into account the situation that has arisen today, I believe that the bill is whiter than it is up to date. Indeed, all members of the committee unanimously supported the bill. And we believe that it must be taken as a basis today. I request the drafter of the bill to support the position of the bill as a basis, not as a whole, because a number of comments made by the Science and Export Authority must be taken into account in the bill. And I request the Head of the Supreme Council to consider the bill expeditiously, to put it into the session room within two weeks and to vote. I want to say that the Communist faction is now ready to support the bill. But once again we turn to the leaders today and to the Parliament, the Head of the Supreme Council, and directly to the Minister of the Interior to ensure the full functioning of the opposition political party. We demand today from Minister Habakkuk, and I ask you to consider this my parliamentary treatment, to liberate the building on Borisoglebska Street, 7 from paramilitary illegal groups that do not allow a full-time job in the context of the presidential campaign, I stress, the opposition political party. If you are referring to the rule of law, let us comply with these rules. And I appeal to the coalition representatives to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u71	Thank you. We'll see, Spiridon Pavlovich, how will the Company vote in favour of this project, which you so strongly support. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the national MP Dubyl. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] As you wish, from the rostrum, only faster. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Dubyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u72	We're going to support this bill, but what I'm going to say is that the housing issue is really painful. People who have worked their entire lives in businesses are tried by courts to evict them from hostels and prevent them from being privatized. In that year, 600 million were allocated, but not a penny. was in the budget, but not a penny was allocated. In Chernigovishte, in the Chernigiv region, people try to get out of the dormitories in the same way. And we immediately voted that in May there would be parliamentary hearings about the residents of the hostels to realize their right to privatization. And we've just done a bill that's going to be passed in May, and I think it's going to be supported, and it's going to be voted. But this will apply to all residents of the entire country. And this bill will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u73	Please, People's Deputy Philippeenko. Who's it from? And Mironenko gave it to you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u74	Thank you, Mr. Head. Pilpenko, 148th District, Poltavščina, Economic Development Group. Our parliamentary group will support this bill, support its adoption in the first reading, because, of course, the bill is important today, but it contains a series of, let's say, technical legal observations, flaws that I think are possible to correct in preparing it for second reading. A few words about these very flaws, I want to pay attention. In particular, the explanatory note and the text of the bill contain a kind of confusion. Since the text of the explanatory note indicates that the bill is designed to ensure the constitutional rights of citizens to housing and to improve housing conditions for military personnel, security officers, and law enforcement officials. At the same time, the bill is directly proposed to grant the right to privatize housing to categories of persons such as military and military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which is actually reflected in the text of the changes. So I think this question needs to be reconciled somehow in preparation for the second reading. There's another offer. The bill does not apply to dormitories that are in business knowledge or in the operational administration of military units, institutions, institutions and organizations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations formed in accordance with the law, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and State educational institutions. In this case, our group believes that the amendments proposed by the bill will not lead to the expected results. Therefore, this gap also needs to be settled when preparing for the second reading. It's all about the fundamental flaws, and I think they can be corrected. I also ask you to support our position to vote on it in the first reading. At the same time, we also support what Vejacheslav Kirilenk has said about what we should think about those military officials who, in fact, by their courageous actions, have stood up for the situation we now have in Ukraine and we should think about their full security and that no one should forget them after these events have finally ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u76	If you don't mind. The Group "Supreme European Ukraine" will support this bill aimed at strengthening the social protection of our military personnel. And for reasons of position, please pass the word to the College of Gregory of Cotton.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u77	Please turn on Grigory's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u78	Thank you for being able to express your opinion. Alexander Valentine's Day, I represent 17 districts in Winnitzkin, where the headquarters of the Ukrainian Air Force are in Winnitz, and the city of Haisin is a military town. I was approached by dozens of people on this issue. And I don't think there's a lot of wisdom here, but we need to vote and support this bill. Because it's better for the people to say, "Mother of a son in a handful than a crane in the sky." No one has the right to remove a military officer from his apartment if he is standing at the same time he privatized a room in a dormitory. But this enables people to have something today and to solve the problem. Moreover, today many military officials, young boys who come to serve in law enforcement, live in dormitories, and these dormitories privatized the owners who own these hostels. Today, they are asked to buy these rooms in our dormitory. It would be wrong to ask such a question. So we absolutely support our colleague Mishchenka's bill, and we believe that it needs to be supported and voted quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u79	Thank you. National Deputy Osuhovski. Please, "Freedom."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u80	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u81	Please turn on Ruslan Marcinkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u82	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will support the bill in the first reading. Although we believe that this is where our employees have been drinking, who are actively working to build the Ukrainian state, like the State Department of Emergency Situations. We believe that in the second reading, there is also a need to include the state’s emergency staff. I would also like to point out that today's bill creates a substantial conflict, unfortunately. Part three of article 1 remains unchanged, where it is established that the scope of the Act does not extend to conglomerates that are in business knowledge or in the operational administration of military units, institutions and organizations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations formed in accordance with the law of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So the second reading calls for solving the problem. This is to be excluded from part three of article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection and Realisation of Housing Rights of Visitors, the words “military units, institutions, organizations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations established in accordance with the Law of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine”. So we call for this bill to be adopted today in the first reading, on a rapid procedure, to finalize it accordingly, to make the amendments described above and to adopt this bill as a whole. And in general today, we need to turn our faces to our military personnel. We need to develop programs and finance housing programs for our military personnel, for those who are protecting the Ukrainian independent state today, and who need to know that the Ukrainian State will always protect its defenders, its defenders. So I urge all the committees today to consider this issue and to consider improving today's military programs, and to do everything to make sure that the military knows that Ukraine cares about them, and that the Ukrainian state is now ready to defend our borders of the Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u83	Thank you. From the non-fractional, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u84	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Of course, the issue of housing for Ukrainian military personnel is an extremely important issue. And it's a shame that we're only looking when the roasted cock pecked in one place. Timely consideration is needed for military personnel to be able to defend the Ukrainian state without worrying about the conditions in which their families live. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the situation for today continues to exist in the hostages of the Russian occupying Ukrainian military forces: Colonel Julius Mamchure, Lieutenant Colonel Dmitry Delettitsky (this is the leader of the morphic battalion based in Feodosia), deputy commander of the morphic battalion Major Rostislav Lomtev. They continue to be prisoners of war, hostages of Russian occupations for a long time. I demand that the Ukrainian authorities take decisive action to free our military personnel. I think we should put an ultimatum on the Russian invaders: either they immediately release our prisoners of war, our heroes, or I propose to act radically. Stop the supply of water, light, gas to Crimea. To put in a famous euro community that if our heroes are not immediately released from captivity, they will stop supplying gas to Europe that is transported by Russia through Ukraine. To recall our African helicopters, they need to protect our country now, not as part of UN peacekeeping missions in Africa. Next. The Russians all over the canal scare the criminals with bandits. Let's help them, let's announce a set of volunteers for the guerrilla war in Crimea, and let the earth burn under the feet of the invaders. To act decisively, to act radically, to liberate our prisoners of war. Someone again, a colleague on, I see, waves that I'm a provoker again, a new incendiary of war and so on. As soon as the Crimean institutions were seized, I urged my firm action from this rostrum! They didn't act, they didn't say anything. They took out all of Crimea today. Let's keep quiet! Let them take away our captives. Let them go to Kiev's tanks. Aggressor's peace policy always leads to defeat, always leads to an aggressor taking our country with his bare hands. Therefore, the liberation of our prisoners of war is a matter of honour for the Ukrainian state! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, all have spoken. From place, please give the author of the law to the national MP Mishchenk for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to those who have voted in favour of this bill for their support. And I want to answer to an MP that I have a lot of respect for, but I'm sure he didn't get a little bit worked out in this bill. Because, thank God, someone got a job as a military officer. But how many people who have not received this residence live in dormitories on bird rights? How can you explain in my district in Devicek, where two dormitories in the Preyaslav-Hmalni district are being expelled, and they can't have any rights? How can we explain in Borispol, where the military forces are standing, that they too are being expelled because others want to strengthen someone else? Where are they going? At least a person should have the right to privatize these miserable 20 meters in order for the family to have any roof over his head. But they are on the line to improve living conditions. Which one of them will take that right off? So the program is a program, but give people something right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats, we will now vote in the first reading of the draft Act on the introduction to article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Realization of Housing Rights of Residents (to extend the right to housing for military personnel, Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Interior), project number 1016. Colleagues, please take your seats. The important question is, let's support it. Please. Dear colleagues, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that your colleagues also take their seats. Jephim Leonidovich, please, you want to support, I know this law. Please. Dear colleagues, please support Bill 1016 in the first reading. Please vote. Thank you. [[11:29:16]] For 275 Decision taken. I want to address the author of the law. You said you could get the papers out of your voice right now and accept it as a whole. Can we do that? Turn on Sergei Mishchenka's microphone. Oh, no? If you have any objection, give in to a reduced procedure. Let's, your honors, support us to consider the second reading, this law has been prepared on the profiling committee by a reduced procedure, please support, please vote. [[11:29:57]] For 272 Decision taken. I'm asking the committee for a brief procedure to prepare this important bill. Dear colleagues, by the factions, please show me. Region Party 57, Parenthood 60, 14 Impact, Economic Development 33, Sovereign European Ukraine 30, Freedom 34, 0, Ukraine Company 37. Dear colleagues, the next question (registration number 2864) is the draft Act amending the Law on Economic Associations (for voluntary membership of the authorities of the agricultural societies). There is a proposal, a short law, to consider it by a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Please support the proposal to review the law on reduced procedure, please. [[11:30:54]] For 209 Procedural decision, pro-209, it's supported. Please, I ask the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymirovich to the rostrum. Xenia Lapina will report to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. The Supreme Council Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill on September 18, 2013. In fact, the bill consists of only one line, which complements Article 23 of the Law on Economic Societies, and specifies that persons who have been elected or appointed to the authorities of such an association shall acquire their powers from the date of submission of a self-written application for acceptance of the respective office. The bill was caused by some examples of abuse when the farm society was acting as a pioneer wife of the Soviets, where the authorities appointed people who refused to do so. The committee supported this bill, although in my personal opinion the entire Law on Economic Associations has been hopelessly outdated for 10 years. Society with limited responsibility, which: 90 percent of which are small, medium - size business in Ukraine do not become investment objects because modern governance methods, appointments, and so forth are not available. Therefore, in our view, and in fact, as one of the coauthors of the Law who prepared the new edition of the Society Law with limited responsibility, we need to change the whole law. However, if the Supreme Council agrees, a law can be adopted on the basis of a single line that, in effect, does not fundamentally change the problems that today are in the administrations of societies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm asking you two to go, two to go, "No" to the speech, so we can make a decision. Please sign in. There's only two, there's no pro, there's no pro, there's no pro, there's no pro, there's no pro, Please, Black people's MP, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u91	Michael Golko of Liberty will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u92	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. According to this law, he really doesn't make any decisions, because the Law on Economic Societies needs to be adopted completely new, which could actually change this situation in the business of farming societies, which is one line that we propose to change, he's practically not drinking anything. Thus, in principle, his approval is not appropriate. Now there's a new bill that's going to be prepared for the company that's going to be making decisions about the company's activities. That is why we, in principle, understand that it will not affect anything, there is no point in voting on this bill. Our faction will not uphold this norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Pavel Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u94	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. We are in favor of the fact that now is the time for systemic decisions. And I would like to draw attention to what Kseniya Lapin said today, that we have to solve systemic issues as quickly as possible not only in economic politics, but also in our political, administrative, social policy and so on. And we are really expecting government decisions today. We hope that tomorrow we will see some of these systemic decisions, because, really, after the events in Maidan, after the actual change of power today, there are huge expectations of really systemic changes in the country. And such bills, of course, we will support this bill, but I urge everyone not to waste their time now, and first of all the government should demonstrate the initiative in terms of changing business conditions in Ukraine. There's a lot of excitement today, people want to work, people want to work legally. And we should as authorities give them this opportunity today. And the second. Alexander Valentinovich, look. There is no comment on this issue in the hall today. A person is appointed to a high state office and is evidently unable to reconcile these things. So let's put a dot on these things, and so that, including the reporter, Mr. Odarchenko, and all the other people who are assigned to executive power today, you can meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine -- and lay down your mandates or withdraw the powers of the Kabmin or the heads of administration. I would ask you to contact these cabinet members, heads of administration, once again, to comply with the constitutional requirements regarding the incompatibility of parliamentary mandates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u95	Thanks for the offer. I refer once again to those who combine the MP's mandate with the state office: where compatibility is prohibited, to decide whether to leave office or to leave office. Including Yuri Odarchenk, mentioned by Paul Rosenko. Please, Your Honor, there are deputies, I do not see any objection to voting on this law. At the same time, I ask the national deputies to return to the hall. Because every time you do, you have to contact the deputies, make an announcement to the secretariat so that they can sit in the hall and work. I have doubts that they are coming out of the hall to go to the front trenches to dig. Please return to the hall. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on draft Law No.2864 to adopt it in the first reading. Please turn on the "Race" system. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote. Please, colleagues, get to your places of work. [[11:37:55]] For-144 The law is not supported, it's off-limits. It's not a decision, it's 144 votes. Dear colleagues, next question. Project No.3696 is the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the procedure for the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens). Please, Your Honor, there is also a proposal for a reduced procedure to address this issue. It doesn't have much volume, and I think Mr. Kaltsev has clearly defined the position so that the hall can vote. Please support a reduced procedure. [[11:38:44]] For-174 Decision taken. I understand who's going to school. What's the bell? I'd like the secretariat to rule out the technical question. Okay? Colleagues, I'm asking that we don't have that kind of trouble. It's a little bit to get the deputies back to the hall, I get it, and they could listen carefully to the reports of their colleagues. A national deputy of Kaltsev is invited to the rostrum. Please. Is there a reporter for this law? None. Dear colleagues, if the reporter doesn't have to report, I'm going to record this law. Because it's disrespectful to colleagues who work in the hall. The bill is off. Dear colleagues, many have approached me with requests from national deputies who are patriotically set up to work actively on the construction of both the Armed Forces and other issues related to the struggle against separatism, asking us to work without interruption today and to finish before. No objections? There's no objection. I understand that everyone supports this attitude of the national MPs. So, dear colleagues, we have two questions about the second reading. One of them is actively supported by the public, which has been taking care of Parliament, and has addressed Parliament as a draft (0947) of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Information Act (new edition) and the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information. I'd like to ask him to start a second reading of the questions. And I invite you to the rostrum of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Tomenko Mikol Volodymyrovich. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention on this bill? The bill is both dutiful and related to what we have in various ways talked about in various ways about the need to continue to make public what is happening in the system of local executives, in the structures of government in general, in public procurement and so forth. After we passed the Information Access Act, we had two groups of issues. The first group of issues: this law was in conflict with a series of laws that had been specifically adopted earlier, and so after a long discussion, the government offered us a first edition, and the public committee was working on the second reading of the changes that remove such conflicting norms. The second group is the standards that apply to resonant topics that today require not only journalists but also the public. This is about banning the inclusion in the general plans for the development of cities, villages of any information with limited access. This is about removing from the Civil Code the presumption of inadequacy and negative information. This is about open access to the protocols of the local councils, decisions, and conclusions of their permanent commissions, and everything related to the use of budgetary and municipal funds. This is about clarifying so many positions related to what we are interpreting today, and this is a European and global norm, which does not contain State confidential information, is confidential information about a person, a legal person. The state can only establish official information, and all information related to the activity of the government does not have the right to secrecy, except for the individual information that falls under the category of "state secret". Only information regarding a private and legal person remains confidential. This is the same block of issues here, including 78 amendments, which I would like to stress are supported by all the members of the committee that represent the five factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at that time. Instead, Alexandre Valentinovich, there is one point related to the fact that, while we prepared this bill, we adopted a new edition of the Cabinet of Ministers Act in the session hall. And we have a purely technological problem. And I would ask that if we vote, we count it. In paragraph 53, we refer to the no longer in force Cabinet Act. So there, in paragraph 53, you have to write in parentheses, "In the Ukrainian Law and in the Ukrainian Cabinet, that's how it's kept by text. Alexander Valentinovich, you will give me now to complete these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u97	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u98	And we're changing and writing: The 2014 Voice of Ukraine's Supreme Council of Ukraine, No. 39, refer to a new edition. And where we refer to the changes to article 47, the new edition of the Cabinet of Ministers Act is article 48. So these are two novels, which, I don't think, are meaningful, so to speak, conceptual, and technical in nature, we have to refer in law to the articles of the new Cabinet of Ministers Act. And I think there are moments here that are so normative that they've been paying attention. I think in general you can make this legal and technical, so to speak, a draft. Everything else about the amendments, we discussed twice on the committee with the press community, the media community, and there is total support for us to finally vote on this law in our second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, as I understand it, is the committee's proposal to vote on the draft in committee editing. So, Mikola Volodymyrovich? Taking into account the two technical amendments announced by the chairman of the committee. Is there a objection to that, an observation? Mikola Volodymyrovich, please stay in the rostrum so that we can determine the form of work. Please turn on the microphone after it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, Alexander Valentinovich, we don't have the right to just fail this bill right now, because it's not just a requirement of the public, but it's also a requirement of the European Union, it's European norms. I've already heard here, some colleagues just don't want to vote, they're taking cards. So I'm asking you very much not to fail this bill, let's make a signal vote first, and then, if we see that we have enough votes now, let's vote on it in the second reading and in general. If not, we will have to do a very active job with our colleagues and mention that the tires have not been shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u101	Mr. Volodymyr, the only thing I don't understand is, after the failed signal vote, what do we do with the law? You know, we have to move in this direction somehow. So please turn on the microphone of the People’s Democratic People’s Party, the People’s Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, here I would like to complete the presentation in the sense that we need to take into account the adjustments that are being made. And to entrust the Legal Office before the signing of the Supreme Council Head to do so, we have this practice. And one more question. I ask our colleague Nicholas Tomenka to clarify, because the Party of the Regions has warned that the openness of the meetings of the Supreme Council is ensured by accessing them in the established order of any person. I mean, explain what "what kind of person" means and emphasize, especially "in the proper order." So there's no fear that this is going to be anyone coming into the hall, taking over the hall, and thus not letting the people's deputies work. Because we need to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. This is about the established general practice of the right of any citizen to attend meetings of the Ukrainian Parliament. This can be done in the following way. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine signs the order of visiting the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an order of accreditation. So it's going to be predicted that, for example, a Ukrainian citizen is going to the appropriate Supreme Council unit, that he wants either a class, or he wants to come alone on the balcony and see the Supreme Council meeting as it happens. The relevant service regulates and says that we have 20 seats available for today’s meeting, so there are 15 classes in the Hersonian or Chercas region that can come and take a look. So this is a general practice that is. But, of course, it's only in the order set out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it has a passport, of course, that people won't get in because they won't physically get in. So this is the same thing that journalists are doing today, newspapers are doing, television, and we're registering, depending on the principles. For example.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u104	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u105	One journalist from an Internet release or two journalists from a television company, Parliamentary, that is to say, it's settled. But the conceptual position that any Ukrainian citizen has the right to be in the parliament of his country and to look at the deputies they chose is, as it were, a natural value, and we have to ensure it. And the tools we work together and do these tools so that it's not chaos, it's democratic and normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, any further questions to the head of the profile committee? No questions asked. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you, there was a proposal for a vote. Can we get 226 votes? We can. Let us try to make a signal vote, in view of the fact that so many social organizations, such as public figures and people in general, believe that we should go to European standards and support this law. And now the attention is fixed to our hall. I ask my colleagues to take their seats. And now let's see about the signal vote, how much room is the proposal made by the committee. Please turn on the "Council" system for the signal vote. Please. [[11:50:38]] For 202 All the voices. And I'd like the factions, by factions, please show me. 1 – the region voted 67 – "The Fatherland", 24 – "The Strike", 10 – "The Economic Development", "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 28, "Freedom" – 33, 1 – from the Company of Ukraine (this is progress for the Company) and non-fractional – 38. Dear colleagues, I ask you to give the factions one minute at a time about the proposals for further work on this law. Please write down from factions, in one minute, purely proposals for work to work out the law or not to work out. Ladies and gentlemen, please, Shugalo, Company of Ukraine, National Deputy. Take it off, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the deputy has refused to speak. Please turn on the microphone of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our group, the Sovereign European Ukraine, has voted and is ready to vote in favour of this bill. And do you know what kind of reasoning was not mentioned? In our current situation, the openness of work, for example, of the Supreme Council far outweighs the openness of other parliaments. There's been talk of approaching European standards, so I'll tell you that there are separate rooms in many parliaments where journalists are located, looking at plasma, in the Canadian Parliament and so on. That's not what I'm calling for. May we all be present at the Supreme Council, who wants to be present. So in principle, we have nothing left to lose by voting for this bill. And so if someone scares the tires with new tires or not tires, let them put the tires in here, like this in the aisles, and blackmail them with it. If a national MP knowingly, like me, votes in favour of this bill, and our group, we will vote. But it's not a method of blackmail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u108	I've got the position. Please, Party of Regions, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address my colleagues from the Party of Regions, the non-fractional factions. I want to tell you, this bill was prepared by us, we prepared it, we prepared it together. It's about access to public information, we worked together. Those fears that are, they are unfounded because access to decisions by any public authority is guaranteed by the Constitution for Ukrainian citizens. Anyone can come to the Supreme Council in an orderly manner, just as any Ukrainian citizen can become a national MP, but to do so, we have to go to the polls. And in this case, it's no big deal for all the authorities to publish their decisions so that the citizens know what's going on in the country, what's going on with their money, what decisions they make on their behalf. That's why this law needs to be passed, and I'm asking you to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Osuhovsky, Freedom, National MP. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u111	Please pass the word to Igor Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u112	Please turn on Igor Miroshnick's microphone, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u113	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, I understand very clearly that in our Ukrainian Parliament everyone wants a European facade. But a large part of the deputies behind the European facade are hiding their deep, drowsy, apricot-Asian essence. This is not about accessing your personal public information and personal data today, but it's about information about Ukrainian citizens' access to your activities. And if anyone does not want to vote, it is obvious that they are the people who have been engaged in land scaffolding in local self - government. To this day, they do not want to sound those decisions, such as the session of the Kiev City Council, when the land was divided without the participation of the local community. I want to say that this bill is really our move to Europe. And if we're saying that Maidan married the European choice, then the Ukrainian Parliament should be responsible for the choice of Maidan and the European essence of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u114	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I may say this paradoxical thought: this is actually a bill for opposition. And I'm turning to the opposition. The opposition has unique tools after this bill: to control every tender purchase, every privatisation, every decision of the criminal authority (because we always have criminal authority), every decision of any official and official. And I don't understand the logic of why the opposition doesn't want to use this tool. The Opposition Act has already been passed. By the way, the previous Opposition Act that we proposed had to be voted on as well. And I will support him, whoever sells the Opposition Act, I will support him. Just as I will uphold such laws, because power changes, but people need to know what people do in power. It's not going to be controlled, because the opposition doesn't sit on the holding fund for a while, and I don't think it's going to sit on privatization or on land, and so on. So this is a serious tool of opposition control. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, let's sleep with this law for another night, and tomorrow we'll ask the first question. I think we'll be ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, Paul Rosenko is speaking out of "BACK" and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u117	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. And we really, I'll remind you, we've only had a signal vote, which allows us to look at the presence of voices in the session room and then make the final decision. And I saw after the vote, Alexander Valentinovich, that we have quite a potential to vote on this bill as a whole. And indeed, in order not to undermine today's final vote, there is a proposal that the factions today take a closer look at the bill, and tomorrow the first question will be made only by voting for the bill. Tomorrow there will be a government, tomorrow there will be all the power, I think it will inspire the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote in favour of this bill tomorrow by 300 votes in favour. But we just can't really let this bill go down today, and we can't risk this important initiative today to make it collapse. That's why there's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u118	The offer is understandable. Dear colleagues, does no one insist that we put this law to a real vote again? We don't insist. So let's say, fellow respectable colleagues, we'll figure out what the committee and factions are still working on this law. We're not promising him first, because the Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister, will be the first to speak, and will propose a block of anti-crisis laws. But immediately, after this block, we can put this question to a vote. No objections? There's no objection. Objection. Please, Mr. Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the discussion is under way, all of them have made their proposals. Why we should, according to the Rules, have no right to postpone the voting until the next day, we have no right. If we decided to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, I would ask you to put it to a vote right now, it's not a big deal. And then, I would like to remind you that there are 80 articles in the Constitution, and I quote, "The People's MP has no legal responsibility for his vote," which is his right to vote in favour, against or against. I don't see the need to move until tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, let's, if there's a desire to bury this law, we can really do an experiment right now. But I see that most deputies still insist that we keep this law in order for it to be considered and the vote to be positive. That's why, dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have many precedents when the Supreme Council has decided to postpone the vote to the next day, even for a week, for two weeks. So come on, I would ask you not to work so that this law is not passed. Most of the factions who spoke supported proposals for the postponement of voting on the next sessional day. Is the hall supported? Thank you for your support. Dear colleagues, the next issue that we should adopt in the second reading is the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to implement the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the trans-border context. This is a serious context. So I ask the committee to address Oleg Grigorovich Lukashuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u121	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading contains a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the Trans-border Context, No. 2109 of 25.05.2013, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Oneshchenk and Shufrich. The bill is aimed at creating a legal procedure for environmental impact assessment. Ensure implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in the trans-border context, the Expo Convention and the Convention on Access to Information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice on environmental issues. the convention. Ukraine ratified the Expo convention in 1999. Regrettably, nearly 10 years after the ratification of this convention by its higher body, the Council of the Parties, by decision 4/2 paragraph 7, which took place in Bucharest Romania from 19 to 21 May 2008, found violations by Ukraine of the requirements of articles 2.6 of the Convention. One reason for making such a decision was the lack of a proper order of environmental impact assessment, which should in particular ensure that the public is able to participate in decisions that may be negative. which can have a negative impact on the environment. To make such a procedure, each party commits to the position of part 2 of the Expo 2 convention. When the bill was finalized for the second reading, it was discussed, usually taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the national MPs — subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. The bill included 90 proposals and comments by Ukrainian national deputies, 66 of which were taken into account. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations and suggested that it be rejected. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the convention on environmental impact assessment in the trans-border context (number 2109a) and to adopt it in the second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, let's consult. There are wonders: To vote in the committee or to go after the amendments. I can see it in the mood of the deputies: the proposal is supported by voting in the committee. Yeah? Yes. Oleg Grigorovitch, please take your seats. Now let's try to solve this question. I'm going to remind you that it's an exclusive environmental load, so I suspect all the factions want its factions. Not all of them. Well, now let's define by voting. Please, Your Honor, put the bill to the vote. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, sit down. Bill No. 2109a: Amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context. There is a proposal to support, a proposal committee, a second reading and a whole. I'd like you to identify yourself as an honorary national MP. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[12:05:27]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues. By factions, please turn on. Region Party 38, Parenthood 34, Impact Two. 24, Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, 33 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 33. Dear colleagues, the committee is making a proposal for a second reading. Right, Victor Mikhailovich? Is it another offer? Please give me a call.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u123	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I would very much ask you to look closely at the draft law that we were considering. There the Convention on Environmental Protection has nothing to do with this law. It's a good cover for everyone who wants to start a business to go to the clerks to ask permission. Look closely at the text of the law: that any activity that affects the environment will have to go to the official. And if there are no grounds for corruption in Ukraine, I urge you to vote in favour of this law, we will have more corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u124	After Victor Mikhailovich's speech, I don't want to put him on second reading again. Yes or no? Is there any way to put it again? Don't we put it in? I mean, the law is outlawed, respectable colleagues. I ask you to approach these questions more carefully, understanding all the consequences that Vladimir Mikhailovich Pizenik spoke about. Dear colleagues, you must also be consulted, you are very wise people. We had Law No.3696, and the Kaltsev National MP came to me and said that he was coming out of the session room on a very important issue, and we took off the project. He's asking us to look at it in a simplified way. Should we support a colleague? We'll support our colleague. Please support the consideration (this is the last issue of today's agenda) of Act No.3696 under a reduced procedure. Please vote on Act No. 3696. [[12:07:47]] For-200 Procedural question. Decision taken. Please, Sergey Fedorovich Kaltsov, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! The bill proposed for your consideration is aimed at reducing the procedure for the registration of immovable property. He is also called upon to protect citizens from unwarranted property registration expenses. Now in Ukraine, most of the real estate is registered under old legislation. Today, when a property alienation procedure is under way, the notary first registers the object for the seller, issues the extract, and then certifies the contract and registers the object for the buyer. We believe that it is unnecessary to register an object for a seller when it is estranged. Notarius is sufficient to verify the legality of the seller’s property in order to bear witness to the alienation agreement. The seller doesn't need this registration at all, he still sells his real estate. Thus, if the bill is adopted, those who alienate their property will be able to avoid unnecessary strings in this procedure and save their money and time. It means the money that the seller will pay for the registration of the real estate. A second suggestion of the bill is a simplification of the fact that the registration procedure has been discontinued. The law contains article 22, which obliges the registrar to stop registration if the documents are incomplete. However, the registrar has no obligation to report to the applicant what documents are not sufficient to register the real estate. After receiving the relevant message, the complainant does not even know which documents he is missing. Therefore, we suggest that the law should include a standard that provides for such a duty. In that case, the applicant who has been stopped for registration will know exactly what document he needs to submit in order for the registration to be successful. In addition, the law currently does not justify a short deadline for the submission of additional documents when the registration procedure is terminated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u127	Thank you. If the applicant fails to provide additional documents, the registrar must refuse to register with the applicant. We propose to increase this term to 30 days. Similarly, we propose that the law on refusal of registration be laid down. That is, to mention an exhaustive list of circumstances that led to such a requirement. Finally, we propose to include in the law the rules that provide for the reimbursement of the claimant's funds if the application for a state registration has been withdrawn, as well as in the event of the refusal of such registration. I believe that this bill will simplify procedures related to the implementation of the new law on the registration of immovable property, enhance its effectiveness, and help to relieve our citizens of unwarranted and unwarranted expenses. I'd like a colleague to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u128	I see. Please, Your Honor, from the committee. Xenia Leapina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u129	Thank you. Xenya Lapina, "Fatherland" faction, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the bill at its January 15, 2014, meeting and recommended that it be approved on a basis. The most positive feature of this project is that it complements certain procedural positions and requires the registrar to provide an exhaustive list of the reasons why the registration process was either refused or stopped. This is very important for us to have a more transparent registration procedure. Today, the biggest manipulations take place in the process of refusing or stopping. We therefore believe that this bill can be adopted. Some of the notes from the science-expert management can be taken into account in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u130	Thank you for the meaningful report. Ladies and gentlemen, let's write down two for two against, two against, and we'll make a decision. Please sign up for the performance. There's no "against" to speak for, there's only "for." Please, National Deputy Ponomarov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u131	The bill proposes to improve the regulation of relations relating to the conduct of State registration of real estate rights and their burdens. In fact, on the committee we discussed the matter. Please back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u132	Please, Marcinkov, National MP, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u134	Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u135	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, we are back to the so-called registration reform of the real estate right. And we can see that this reform, which was adopted by the previous authorities, has caused a number of inconveniences for our citizens during the transformation of their property. And we, as it were, put the horses in front of the wagon or the cart in front of the horses, as they say. So we did it the other way around. The reform was first adopted, and now we are trying to correct the flaws in the back. After all, there are many flaws. And one of them today who is proposing to make changes to this legislation is unfortunately also imperfect because it will also lead to misunderstandings with notary during the transformation into immovable property. And that's why we still think that we need to put it down and work on it now, because there are a number of comments. And we understand that, on the one hand, it's as if good standards are prescribed that there's a specific refusal to register real estate. But at the same time, we will be laying down notaries, and we will have substantial observations. So I'm going to suggest that we stick around and work out this bill and prepare it more specifically for the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-26-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. The hall will now determine which one to support. The first suggestion from the author of the law and the committee of profile is to accept it as a basis, that is, in the first reading. And the second sentence, so I figured, for the first time, send it back. Please now support the proposal on which the profiling committee insists and adopt this law as a basis, that is, in the first reading. Please prepare, Your Honor, for the vote. Project registration number 3696: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (to improve the procedure for the State registration of immovable property rights and restrictions). Please support the law in the first reading. Please vote. [[12:15:41]] For-183 There weren't enough voices. The decision is not taken. Let's put it to a vote and support the proposal of the People's Parliamentary to review the law, to send it back to read again, to reconcile the contradictions that the National MP spoke of. Please support this law, for re-reading. Please vote. [[12:16:19]] For 228 At the border: 228 is outside. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you and I have considered the order of today's session, worked without interruption. And I point out to you that tomorrow we have a very responsible meeting. The Cabinet of Ministers should report the first package of anti-crisis measures that need parliamentary approval, including budgetary changes. So I'm asking for full mobilization of all factions, MP groups, in all non-fractional groups, and tomorrow Parliament will continue its work at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
