ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to invite all the nationals into the hall. We're about to begin our work. Please prepare for registration. And according to tradition, I want to inform and welcome you. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Burjak Sergey Vasilovich. Please welcome him. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'd like you to turn on the Council system and register with the National Deputies. [[10:04:11]] There were 250 registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. And I'm asking the secretarial staff to repair the computer, because there's no information coming out here. Please, Your Honor, according to tradition on Tuesday, we begin our session with presentations by representatives, leaders of the MP factions and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Please include a record of the people's deputies. Please, strike faction. Is Vitaly Volodymyrovich speaking? Vitaly Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, it's been over 40 days since the Mayan murders, and so far no name has been given for the killers. Did they all hide in Moscow, or did they become a new Crimean Berkut? It's our debt to the dead to find, arrest and punish the murderers. We've been waiting this week for a report from the leaders of the whole block on the results of the investigations. But we realize that law enforcement is not easy today. But the situation of a shooting in Kiev, the capital, and a bunch of young people walking around with an uncontrollable number of weapons, must be put to rest. And we need to act decisively in this direction. Otherwise, provocations that play a part in Ukraine threaten the lives and security of citizens, and they will continue. Colleagues, this week we need to prepare a base to effectively solve problems in the context of occupied territories and in the fight against economic and social crises. And the first question on the agenda today is the question of Crimea. I think it would be helpful for the Minister of Defense to hear how our military forces are coming out of Crimea. There are reports in the media that many military personnel are unable to leave, that families can only be taken out because there is no money. Some volunteers help us. If it is necessary to send carriers there, let us find out today and our political power is ready to join in and help in this direction. Also in Russian captivity are commanders and fighters in Ukraine. Citizens ask the question when they will be released. Moreover, the so-called "green men" continue to capture the hostages. Illegally detained yesterday by an MP, the son of the deputy of our faction, Sergey Kunicina. Officer Demenenko and others continue to be supported. The hostages must be released immediately. Because the occupation authority behaves in Crimea in the same way as the Somali pirates. Next. Russia claims to be denouncing agreements on the establishment of the Black Sea fleet. After that, she has to withdraw her fleet from Crimea, and the Ukrainian government will demand compensation from Moscow for the unilateral denunciation of the Kharkiv Treaties. Now, about legislative initiatives. A bill to assign Ukraine’s military to the Crimea has already been passed by a committee, and it needs to be reviewed and given due consideration to our military, who remain faithful to the oath. Next. The profile committee is working on the Act on Occupied Territories, taking into account the bill from our party. After all the comments are taken into account, it should be considered as quickly as possible. The same applies to the Ordinance on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Ukrainian Citizens in Crimea. An important topic and a Crimean Tatar. This nation does not recognize the occupation of Crimea. So all the steps taken to support the indigenous peoples, particularly the bill on the rights of indigenous peoples in Ukraine. It is also time to consider the bills necessary for the visa-free regime with the European Union. Next question. Canceling the unjust decisions of the previous authority, as well as giving business the opportunity to restore employment and investment. First. It is to be passed in this bill on the abolition of the utilization assembly, which we voted on as a basis. The other one. Consider the bill on fines for new businesses. Third. Set a time limit for the government, for example, for a year to review regulatory policy legislation. Four. The responsibility of officials for misconduct must be increased. In places, however, it is said that only names have been changed, but not corrupt schemes, corrupt schemes have, unfortunately, remained the way they were. All of these proposals are submitted by our faction to the Supreme Council's apparatus, and they need to be put in order immediately and approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u3	Thank you. From the Communist faction, National Deputy Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u4	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Social Policy and Labour Committee. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters! Parliament's decision on the State Budget Sequester for 2014 and the adoption of anti-crisis measures is otherwise impossible as shock therapy or crematorium. This vote was to a large extent a sign. Three months yesterday's opposition, and today's power, proved to the Ukrainian people: we're not like the predecessors, we're not like them -- we're honest, we're decent, we're practicing European values. And then they came to the meeting room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in one vote they confirmed that they were the same, because they "tagged the belt" of the people of Ukraine, not on the belly of the Ukrainian poor, but on the neck. You robbed a veteran, a disabled person, a pensioner, an unemployed person, you robbed a poor person and a disabled person. So, what better way are you? I want to give you a few examples of the changes that have been made to the State Budget. I would like to remind some of those colleagues who actively pressed the button for freezing the minimum pension and minimum wage, that for the first time in 2014 the social standards of January 1, 2014 were not increased in many years. The previous authorities did not raise the minimum pension for 11 months, and in December 2013 they paid a copy. Today's government has decided to go much further, it's proposing not to increase these poor pensions all 12 months, and this is against the backdrop of a 40-50 percent increase in housing and utility tariffs, and pay for energy. On the same day that the document was accepted, the minister of social policy proudly, from this rostrum, said that the average pension in Ukraine amounted to 1 thousand,526 dollars. Even this amount was extremely low in 40 to 50 years of work. But I'll give you another number, 1 out of every 4 Ukrainian gets 1,000 dollars and less. And there's one more thing I want to say. From this rostrum, the prime minister of Ukraine, presenting these projects, stated that the truth should be told to the people of Ukraine. So let's be honest, the minimum wage in Ukraine is not 1,000 218 dollars, as it's written in the budget, but it's essentially 852 bracelets. This is the rate of the first tariff charge. Little wonder that more than 2 million Ukrainian citizens who work honestly and pay the only social contribution receive less than the minimum wage, and another 3 million receive less than 2,000 dollars. So each second official gets much less than two thousand dollars, but it's working. But what I want to say is that the authorities have taken care of the unemployed. The unemployment insurance fund was reduced by 1.1 percent. This means that these calculations are almost halved. This means that by the end of the year, this fund has a 4 billion-dollar hole in its budget, and from February to March next year, it's going to pay nothing for unemployment. A lot of talk was about the oligarchs, about their withdrawal from power, the only thing that changed is that the oligarchs came straight into power, and that's how the people of Ukraine helped with these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u5	There was a lot of applause, and I'm gonna decipher it for the radio audience. Dear colleagues, this is Sergey Sobolev, from the Fatherland faction, please to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Yesterday's unprecedented incident, which occurred in the middle of the evening in Chrystec, the taking of arms, the illegal arms that happens on the streets of other cities in Ukraine, and what happened yesterday on the Interim Special Commission, which, not before all the members of the commission, tried to vote with a proposal to remove the head of the IMF, in my opinion, this is all a chain of one elaborate operation planned in the Kremlin, namely: operations for and destabilisation of the situation in Ukraine, destabilising the situation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because how else can it be called a situation when Parliament adopts a decree on immediate disarmament, indicating that the extreme elements should be brought to order, while individual members of the Party of Regions vote for the Minister of Internal Affairs, who began to carry out the ruling of the Parliament, the laws of Ukraine, to withdraw from his office at that time. I think this is an unprecedented case that should be investigated in the Parliamentary Hall. And I think we should meet now in full stock of the Temporary Special Commission. And people need to be warned not within an hour and a half when they cannot get out of other regions of Ukraine, but on such a matter of importance people should be warned in advance. So the request, if the commission itself cannot organize its work, to you, Alexandre Valentinovich, to authorize the work of the commission and to have all the factions present for the commission. The other one. In my opinion, the agenda for today requires the adoption of an immediate decision that the country needs, namely, I have put forward a draft Order (number 4614) and I know that the committee has just supported it with immediate disarmament of all illegally armed formations. The question is the following: The Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian Security Service jointly ordered two weeks to surrender illegal weapons. During this time, thousands of people have taken advantage of this right and have given up illegal weapons, which in fact relieves them of administrative and criminal responsibility. From this point on, when this order has been completed, anyone with illegal weapons is outside the law, and according to our legislation will be responsible administratively and criminally for what has happened. That's why I have a motion for this motion to be put to the vote. I think it's going to be an unnecessary factor that will facilitate the immediate adoption of such a decision, so that every militia officer, every security officer, doesn't think about what to do when they're being put on the gun or when it's being used to rob banks, shops or rob our citizens' simple homes. The other one. To this day we have a whole decision on how to contribute to the actual rearming of our army. That draft decision that our colleagues are making and there are two alternative bills on the possibility of write-offs from enterprises that they're directing to strengthen the country's security, I think it'll be a good example for all Ukrainian entrepreneurs. Those who want to help our army. I would think that this bill should be considered immediately. We also have an urgent amnesty bill. You know, for the last three years, amnesty has not been carried out in the country. And so tens of thousands of people, mostly middle class representatives, are behind bars. In my opinion, these are the necessary decisions that we need to make. So let's get to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the MP's "Economic Development" group, Jaroslav Suhi. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinachu gives the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u8	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! We need to express our sincere thanks for the strong support that Ukraine has received from the world’s societies. And at the General Assembly of the United Nations, an event was very important for Ukraine when the Resolution of the General Assembly of the United Nations, where the territorial integrity of Ukraine was clearly established, the illegality of the so - called Crimean referendum, the condemnation of the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, was supported by a hundred nations of the world. For us, this is of the utmost importance in the context of strengthening Ukraine's positions in the further work by peaceful, legal means to protect our territorial integrity and our national, Ukrainian interests. But it is vital that we do our Ukrainian homework. And one of the priorities is the need to ensure the rule of law, a high level of protection of human rights, life, health, and security of Ukrainian citizens throughout the country. As a result, we certainly need to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of February 21st, halting the bloodshed, demilitarizing the Ukrainian illegal armed formations that threaten Ukrainian citizens. It is definitely necessary to resist the phenomena that take place throughout Ukraine in some cities and are associated with robberies, pogroms. We clearly support the initiative in this direction. The MP's Economic Development Group also drafted Bill 4613 on the basis of international standards. We propose to include it as an urgent agenda for the next plenary week, it is aimed at making the world see Ukraine as a legal state that lives, builds, including the protection of citizens, their security, on the basis of equality of all before the law. Further work to strengthen the Ukrainian national security sector is of the utmost importance. We need to start by taking into account the latest tests that our country is going through today, the new edition of the national security strategy, which needs to reinforce such factors as the formation of Ukraine's modern armed forces, our state's non-block status, to remove the talks that bring about the deterioration of Ukraine's interior, clearly strengthen and confirm Ukraine's irreversibility to integrate into Europe's economic and political space. Ukraine's National Security Strategy should be supported by a new edition of the Military Doctrine, the National Comprehensive Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and, of course, by state technical development programmes, weapons, including the construction of ships of the "Brove" type, high-precision operational weapons, etc. It is very important that the National People's Deputies, addressing and overcoming the risks and threats related to territorial integrity, the national security of Ukraine work to restore and increase business activity in Ukraine, create a favourable investment climate, especially against the background of those very serious and very harsh decisions for the Ukrainian economy that we made last week in the budget sector and very serious fiscal measures. We have to focus on the development of small and medium-sized businesses to form a powerful middle class. It's very important to shape all conditions and reduce the risk of losing markets, unfortunately, in post-Radians space. Strong programmes to adapt the Ukrainian economy to European standards, to free trade, to strengthen export policies, to protect the internal market, to address issues of access to credit – these issues are urgent and only a consolidated state can successfully address them. And we're sure there's no alternative to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, "North European Ukraine" gives the word "Olesy Donya."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u10	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! First. A few days ago, the public receptionist representative of the group "Supreme European Ukraine" Valery Moshensky in the Luhansk region was shot. This is no longer a miracle in modern times. Well, it's a good thing everyone survived, because it's the only MP in the Lugansk region who's gone through a self-reliant and didn't belong to the Party of Regions and managed to win. And we also understand who is now trying to destabilize the situation in the East: Lugansk, Donetsk, Kharkishka. Silly. Who actually want to break even one piece of the Ukrainian state. The wild is different. When Deputy Mosheński approached Ukraine’s local security service, they refused to register the crime and dragged on for a few days. So I have a question for the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. You have control of your offices in eastern Ukraine, or there will be representatives of the Ukrainian Security Service again demanding money for opening cases. I don't say to open cases anymore, but at least to open cases. Your Honor, this is a new government. It should set itself a completely different pattern of behavior rather than resort to bribery and sabotage. The second question. Representatives of our member group, Sovereign European Ukraine, have submitted a bill on a sensory button. These are the deputies of Ivakhov, Jeremeyev, Litwin and the MP of Chumak's Strike Group. I would like to remind you that when we, as representatives of the opposition, were on the previous Supreme Council, in this Supreme Council in opposition, we called for a fight against buttoning. It was a task, it was a requirement, it was solidarity with journalists and public figures who are on the balcony and who are monitoring our activities. What's changed now? Gentlemen, what's changed now? It's not just regionals and communists that are involved in the tobacco industry, I'm afraid I can see it in our environment. The government should set an example. He may set a bad example, or he may set a good example. If we're talking about other directions, gentlemen, let's try not only to talk, but also to try to act. We insist that the draft law on the fight against buttoning should be put to the vote and voted accordingly. And that would fit not only our slogans, but also show an example for the nation. Question three. As representatives of the vast majority, we voted in favour of the bill before making changes to the budget. It was a difficult bill and a difficult decision for us. It was a budget sequester who actually put the responsibility, unfortunately, on unprotected segments of the population. If the laws on the protection of unprotected types of settlements are not now passed, it is clear that this will again be a state for the alighat. That is why we insist that the issue of the abolition of pension reform be reversed. And we had a bill on this subject, especially Mr. Litwin, and he was now back for his first reading. We demand that he be put to the vote. We demand that you put to the vote Sergei Mishchenka's inheritance bill. Because the money that comes from this inheritance is sitting in the pockets of officials and not filling the budget. We simply demand that our Hall review legislation to protect unprotected groups of people. It's not a request, it's an insistence. And that's why I'm going back to our second question. We need to set an example for ourselves. Of ourselves, first of all, and only then do we have the right to demand from others. So our first requirement is to put to the vote a bill to combat buttoning, to introduce a sensory button. Thank you for your attention, and I hope you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, from the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" Oleg Jaroslavovich Tagnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u12	Respectable Society! Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Parliament must now take on an extremely important mission, a mission to actually form a new doctrine of foreign policy and Ukraine's defence. We must destroy and destroy all the sins that have been in Ukrainian legislation in this area until now. That is why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is now proposing to our foreign political authorities to contact our guarantor states, according to the Budapest Treaty of 1994, particularly Britain, also the United States of America, for the purpose of signing bilateral agreements between Ukraine and those countries. These agreements will help protect the security of our nation, increase the security of our nation, and protect the Ukrainians. And we also propose to address the Congress of the United States of America with a call for rebirth in the form of the so-called anti-putin coalition, which has already begun to form after the vote at the United Nations, the principle of the so-called land-leasing. The one offered by Roosevelt during World War II. And this principle implies that a country that suffers from an aggressor but lacks sufficient funds and funds to buy military weapons can borrow these funds in other countries. And once the aggression has been overcome, this military technology and the weapons borrowed will be committed. In fact, it is the only thing that can stop the Gulf Reich as Hitler’s Reich was stopped in its own time. In addition, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association believes that in the realm of defence, as we have talked about before and constantly, financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be set at 5 percent of GDP to overcome the technical backlog of our Armed Forces from the neighbouring countries. Given, of course, the urgent need for military reform and re-arms, we believe that the credibility of the service in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations needs to be restored. To increase the financial support of military personnel is now very important. And solve the problem of providing housing and providing government credits for its acquisition. We need to start finally building our own military-industrial complex to provide Ukraine's Armed Forces with modern-day armament and Ukraine's effective participation in the global arms market. We need to put an immediate end to military and technical cooperation with Russia and quickly establish mutually beneficial cooperation with other states. There is an immediate need to ensure strict control over the pricing and the collection of the funds that have been recovered from arms trade to the state budget of Ukraine. The practice of the thoughtless destruction of today’s effective weapons at the request of other nations and their sale at the expense of Ukraine must be stopped. Ukraine must finally create a system of training and mobilization of the reserve. "Freedom" suggests that we do it with a Swiss pattern. Reestablishing the initial military training system, as previously discussed, as well as civil defense in public schools and the network of military pulpits in the highlands. In today’s situation, we feel that we need to renew the military appeal. "Freedom" believes that it is now time to create an effective counterintelligence service to guarantee the security of the Ukrainian pollination and fight against the divers and saboteurs of a likely opponent. And this week, a respected society, it's worth supporting these bills. which will help finance the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In particular, we're going to be looking at 4491 today to increase the financial and financial security of the state. This will enable funds from local budgets, nongovernmental organizations, individuals, and legal entities to be involved. And also 4492, so by adopting this bill, we can reduce the amount of the tax paid to the profits of those enterprises that help the Ukrainian army. In addition, the law on illustration has come to light. And we're just asking the Supreme Council apparatus to register our draft law on free possession of arms. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u13	Please, from the faction of the Party of Regions, Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Indeed, today there has been a difficult and rather complex and political and socio-economic situation in the State. This requires maximum, today it requires maximum unity of the country and consolidation in society. With regard to the common people, both in the West, who speak Ukrainian and in the East, who speak Russian, they have a common understanding that we are all one large multinational Ukrainian family. In the West where the Ukrainian language is spoken, and in the East where the Russian language is spoken, there is another common understanding that the more friendly our multi-ethnic Ukrainian family will be, the sooner we will overcome the difficulties that stand in our way, and the faster we will build a free democratic European and prosperous Ukrainian Power. Unfortunately, there is no such understanding at the level of politicians. At the politicians' level, they often don't know how to hear each other, they don't know how to listen to each other, they try to sell their opinions through their knees. This does not lead to unity, unity and the consolidation and rapid resolution of the difficulties facing Ukraine. To date, there are two problems that are being raised both in the West and in the East. And if we hear and resolve them, we will unite the country. Problem number one is the maximum decentralization of power, the transfer of rights and powers to regions, local communities, and territorial and administrative reform. You know, it was both in the West and the East. And in the Western regions, when the regional councils called for the abolition of the regional administrations'institutions, the delegation of authority to the regional councils to form the executive boards, to elect the regional executive boards in the regions, or perhaps directly in the regions. The same in the east of Ukraine. Therefore, the Party of the Regions will do its utmost to ensure that this desire, this requirement, this order of voters from all over Ukraine: both the West, the East, and the Centre, and the South, has been heard and formalized in the draft new Constitution, which I hope we will adopt in the autumn, greatly expanding the powers of the regions within a single unitary State. And the second problem. Today, almost 45 million Ukrainian people, the people of Ukraine, understand at least two languages: Russian and Ukrainian. And if a Galician comes to the Donetskian and speaks English, he will be understood. If a Russian-speaking miner from Donbass comes to Lviv and speaks Russian, they'll understand him too. But with all that we all understand two languages, half speaks Russian, half speak Ukrainian. We need to sew Ukraine today. Those who sew know that if two pieces of matter are sewn together by one line, it will be one strength, and if a double line is sewn, the fort will be another. Therefore, perhaps we too today should try to “sow” Ukraine with a “double language line” by introducing two national languages, Ukrainian and Russian. And the Party of the Regions will, for its part, propose to explain and convince the need to do so, to formalize in the draft Constitution that we will adopt in the autumn. Once again, I repeat, it will unite and consolidate society. Dear friends, so it has historically been established that there are representatives of different nationalities, who speak different languages, of different religions, of different national cultures. But this once again emphasizes that Ukraine is multifaceted, but it is alone, alone for all of us and that we live together. Therefore, we can only raise it by uniting, only by consolidating efforts, only together, placing the highest interests of the State and people at the top of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded with you the speeches of representatives of MPs and factions. And I'm asking the people's deputies to sit in their jobs, and we're starting to make very important and responsible decisions. Secretariat, please give me a message so everyone can come into the session room. Dear colleagues, you all know that yesterday in the centre of Kiev there was an extraordinary event, in the middle of Kiev there was a shooting, three people were wounded and the attacker was detained. Moreover, at night the police carried out the disarmament and exodus of people who were illegally staying at the Dnipro Hotel. Honorable colleagues, regardless of who is a member of the political power, who goes to which church, regardless of who speaks such political slogans, the Ukrainian people demand order. Those carrying weapons may be exclusively in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard, the Security Service, or other paramilitary formations. That is why, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal for the Supreme Council to support the project reported by the national deputy Soboljev, which is the immediate disarmament of illegal weapons formations. And we are obliged to do this regardless of where these weapons formations are located in the Centre, in the West, or in the East. When they don't belong to the army, to the Nazis, to the Security Service, to the militia, they're diversans working against Ukraine. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support and include in the agenda a very short but meaningful Order (No.4614) on the immediate disarmament of illegal weapons in Ukraine. Please, it's given to all deputies, honourable colleagues, we've discussed this on the Conciliation Council, including the Head of the Strike and all supported. She's got two lines, I'll announce them, I'll ask you to back it up and put it in the order of the day. Dear colleagues, please support this proposal. Draft Decree (4614) on the immediate disarmament of illegal weapons formations in Ukraine Please vote for all representatives of MPs, factions and non-factional groups, this is our shared responsibility. Please turn on the "Council" system and support the inclusion in the order of the day's decree 4614. [[10:44:23]] For 235 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The content is very short, I'd ask you to listen to it now and we'll support it. On the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin says that the decision is unanimously supported. I read its contents. "In connection with the extraordinary social and political situation in the country, the exacerbation of the criminality situation and the systemic provocations of foreign citizens in southeastern Ukraine and Kiev, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to oblige the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service to immediately disarm illegal weapons formations." This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Dear colleagues, very brief content, but from now on we're going to say that it's not a political problem, it's already a problem of the responsibility of our power structures. Dear colleagues, there is a complement to this determination. Please turn on the Ingredient's microphone. And I'd like you, your honors, to vote for everyone. I understand that Communists support illegal military formations and therefore do not vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, a respected colleague, I would like to take into account that when this decision is taken under illegal military formation, we will be subject to the belligerent protection of state defence companies, the Ukrainian Broadcasting Service, which protects railways. So maybe. I fully support this decision, but so we don't disarm the television centers, defense companies and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, I think it's a rhetorical question, because read the name and content of the regulation again, it's only about illegal military formations, when any military formation operates on the basis of law, whether it's a security structure, or structures that provide security for rail transport, they operate within the framework of the law, they're about illegal weapons formations. Please, the microphone of Žurabinski and Žurabinski. We'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, our committee is a committee on law enforcement has considered the draft regulation. The committee, as you know, consists of representatives of all the factions represented in Parliament, and all unanimously supported this draft decree. From a legal point of view, it's irreprehensible, it's politically necessary. I urge the people's advocates to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u19	Please turn on the microphone and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u20	Thank you, thank you, Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues, in full support of this decision, would like to notice whether to ask a question or not. See, if a person claims that he does not engage in the formation of weapons, but he has illegal weapons, he uses illegal weapons. How can I be here? Alexander Valentine's Day may be worded as "illegal weaponry -- these weapons -- and individual citizens who possess illegal weapons." You know, there could be some people who always say, "And I'm not in formation, I'm right." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I think it's a convenient addition to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Please, I see more hands, my colleagues insist. Let's give you another chance to put it this way. People's deputy Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u22	Dear colleagues. really, this problem is and needs to be solved, but it's a very important issue to solve in a complex. I would like to point out that today, in Parliament, Bill 4613 has been registered under the authority of Zuravsky, the People's Deputy, and mine, which has already passed the committee and has been agreed with the government. This refers to the amendment to article 162 of the Criminal Code, which reinforces the punishment of such armed gangs who today go home, rob, pillage, and sometimes take part in the service, and are involved illegally. And, in principle, if you could, Alexander Valentine's Day, let's also include this law in the order of the day right now, it's small, and let's vote. That's what Mr. Kinach just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u23	Okay. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone. Then the People's Deputy, Kyde? I can't see without my glasses. Orphan, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u24	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues! I'd like to remind you that you and I have adopted the National Guard Act. And I would like to report that the National Security and Defence Committee has procedurally agreed to run for office. I would consider it appropriate to appoint the head of the National Guard, because what we write in the decree, in large numbers, is going to be a function of the National Guard special forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Orphan People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u26	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, it is clear that the existence of illegal paramilitary formations and people with weapons in the center of the city is an unacceptable situation. But this situation was the result of peaceful citizens being shot to death by their structures. And people had to save their lives by arming themselves. Today just by banning people, we know that three million weapons are in illegal circulation, and so we need to create a mechanism so that people can legally own weapons, as is the case in the Baltic States, as is the case in Moldova, and not put much of Ukraine outside the law. So I demand that we bring to the attention the Civil Weapons and Ammunition Act so that people have the legal right to possess weapons legally. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u27	I'd like a profile committee to consider this proposal. Turn on the microphone of Inna of the Divine One. Friends, let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Today, there is no question of whether or not we can leave weapons in the hands of people. The question is whether the police are capable of carrying out weapons professionally today; whether or not this will turn into new homicides in detention. So I'm proposing, if you take this decision, that you put a minimum of two weeks into it so that people who are supposed to give up arms can do it under the law, and once that deadline is over, the police can make decisions. Before that, the police may still be able to organize this order in such a way that no one is killed and everything is done under the law during detention. We have bad examples, we need to avoid them. I'm asking you to make a two-week delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the Party of Regions insists. Let's give the last word and vote. Please, Anna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u30	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! If you ask everyone in Ukraine honest, if he wants to be shot in the streets, everyone will say to you, "I don't want to." As a result, we needed to disarm, not today, but immediately after the street struggle had ended. I call on the Party of the Regions to support the armament decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I see there's already a whole spectrum of performances. Communists insist on the word. I give Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, but I would ask you not only to speak but also to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u32	Thank you. Martinuk faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. We will gladly vote if the authorities fulfill their promises and release the office of the Central Committee. That's the first one. The other one. In connection with the speech of God’s Word. I remind you that there has been an official call by the power structures to have all those who possess illegal weapons surrender these weapons by March 21. It's April 1st, so there's nowhere to put it. And to those hotheads who today are offering to leave legal weapons to those who illegally possess them, we have already seen the consequences of banditry yesterday. You want to arm the whole country to dictate its will. That's enough! We really need to take all the guns! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we are talking to you about illegal armed formations as well as citizens who illegally possess and use illegal weapons. Correction of the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy Dear colleagues, all the political speculation we heard in Parliament. I ask you to support the draft decision by voting on it as a basis and as a whole. Let me remind you, project number 4614: the immediate disarmament of illegal weapons in the country. Please support the vote. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[10:54:09]] For 256 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 26, 80*** – "Fatherskina", 31 – "Klicka" – "Economic development", 35 – "North European Ukraine", 30 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues! In order of the day. In front of Victor Mikhailovich's daytime schedule, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! You and I have created a bad precedent today. As of today, this means that every time unknown people walk on the streets of Ukraine, law enforcement authorities must wait for a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on disarmament. In my opinion, if there is a rule of law that prohibits people who are not armed, the law enforcement system should work, not wait for decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u35	Victor Mikhailovich, thank you for the comment, but the situation has a purely systemic political sign and a problem where many people have had political speculation. And that is why the Supreme Council stressed this problem by entrusting both the Security Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to meet the very requirements of the law. Dear colleagues, there is also a request to support our deputy’s statement. We haven't been able to do this a few times. And our colleagues at Strike insist. Averchenko, a national MP, wrote an application for credentials. I'd like to ask Parliament. They're still holding their hand, I can't see. And the people's deputy of the Cherniaks. Well, let's vote in turn. First. I am voting, and I am asking for the support of Parliament for the formation of parliamentary powers by the People's Deputies of Averchenko. Please vote. [[10:56:27]] For 227 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask all deputies to vote and work in this direction. Please, the national deputy of Chernjakov wrote a similar statement, asking for the support of Parliament and its application for parliamentary powers. Please, colleagues, back up and vote. Please vote. [[10:57:01]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving to the agenda. First of all, I would like to ask you and me to solve the technical issue, particularly our decision, which was taken on March 25, 2014. We took a decree with you to hold parliamentary hearings in May on "Ensure the realization of the housing rights of the residents: problems and ways of solving them." Sadly, though, this decree did not set a specific date. This particular date has been introduced by the PIC and asks for support by voting for a change to the ruling. These hearings are proposed to be held on May 21, this year. No objection, dear colleagues? Technical question, please. Please vote. [[10:58:02]] For 239. Thank you. "For" - 239, decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to personnel issues, important issues. They are primarily related to changes in the Central Election Commission and the National Bank. Please come to the rostrum of Justice Minister Peter Dmitrovich. Very briefly, Paul Dmitrovich, give us the information immediately on all the questions, all four of them, so that we don't call you four times. And we're going to vote for each and every one of us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You will be given a number of draft regulations on personnel change in the Central Electoral Commission. The first such decision is a decision to release a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Mr. Aleksandra Ljubimovitch, from office in connection with his application for a term of office. Procedural issues regarding the introduction of appropriate submissions to the President’s responsibilities have been met. Similarly, a similar exemption order in connection with a personal application made by a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Donchenko Yuri Grigorovovich. Similarly, according to the provisions of the Constitution, an appropriate submission was made by the acting president. And two draft decrees for the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission, Berezuk Catherine Grigorovna and Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich. All the necessary documents provided for by the Central Election Commission Act and the Constitution of Ukraine have been submitted, as discussed in the Professional Committee. Therefore, I ask you to support these draft rulings by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, with a brief message to the rostrum, comes David Vajayevich Zwania, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u38	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee considered, discussed the issue comprehensively, and unanimously supported the submission of the Acting President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the suspension of the terms of office of members of the Central Electoral Commission, Kopilenko Aleksandr Lubomirovich, as well as Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich. He also supported the decision to support Bill (4564) on the appointment of Catherine Berezuk as a member of the Central Electoral Commission for the results of the first reading and to take on the basis and overall. And it is also the same as the whole of the Order (4565) concerning the appointment of Oleg Didenko as a member of the election commission as a result of the first reading. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u39	Thank you, David Vajaevich. Dear colleagues, can we vote for these questions? We can. I ask the honourable national deputies to sit in their seats and prepare for the vote. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, please sit down. Nestor Ivanovich, please sit down and support the vote. Please, Your Honor, vote on the draft decision on discharge as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (Copilenko) on its own motion (draft regulation 4562). Please support, Your Honor, on the basis and in general vote. Please vote. [[11:01:48]] For 227 Borderline: 227. Dear colleagues, I ask you to press the button more intensely to make the result come true. And the results were more or less convincing. Dear colleagues, there is a draft decision on discharge as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (Donchenka) on its own application, I stress (draft 4563). Please support as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:02:28]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now need to select two members of the Central Electoral Commission. First, I'm proposing to appoint Catherine Berezuk as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Project Order 4564. Please, Your Honor, I'd like to ask Mrs. Beresuk to come up. I think everyone sees her, dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] We can vote. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Please turn on the "Race" system. Draft Decree 4564 is based on and in general. Let's vote. [[11:03:28]] For 238. Decision taken. Welcome to the newly elected member of the Central Electoral Commission. Very responsible questions. We are convinced that you will be honest and inspired to carry out your duties. Please, Your Honor, the final decision of this package. Draft Order appointing Didenck to serve as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. Please, we see the challenger. Dear colleagues, please support the project (registration number 4565) – on the basis and in general. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:04:12]] For 240 Decision taken. Welcome to the newly elected member of the Central Electoral Commission. We look forward to your honesty, your principle, in carrying out your constitutional duty. Please, Your Honor, welcome once again the newly elected members of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have a very responsible question about the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. I am requesting the head of the Committee on Finance and Banking of the Committee on Finance and Banking to the Parliamentary Chamber of Parliament, Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the members of the CLTC not to leave the hall. And the secretariat will find out about the oath of the members of the Central Electoral Commission. Please prepare an oath so that they can do so. Now let's take a look at the questions about the members of the Nazbank Council. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u40	Honourable Head, honourable colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 19, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 10 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Bank of Ukraine", the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints and discharges half of the membership of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine through the adoption of the relevant decision. The term of office of members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine is 7 years. By a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 26 March 2014, six members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine were released, whose terms of office ended on 11 January 2014. The appointment of new members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine was repeatedly discussed by the committee. At the meeting of the Committee from 18 to 26 March 2014, a preliminary list of candidates was introduced for discussion and agreement. The committee also asked MPs and groups to nominate members of the National Bank Board. As a result of the discussion at the meeting of the Committee on 1 April 2014, 6 candidates were proposed and discussed that meet the requirements of article 10 of the Ukrainian Act "On the National Bank of Ukraine", and it was decided to make an appropriate draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with these agreed candidates for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for appointment as members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. The committee also decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, can we put this question to the vote without discussion? We can. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. This question has been reconciled with all factions, and I ask, Your Honor, to prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please sit down. It is very responsible to press the voting button. Draft decision (4616) on election. I'm sorry, members of the Board of the National Bank of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this project to a vote and I'm asking you to support it as a whole. Please vote. [[11:08:07]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there was a proposal made by the national deputy Greenewecki from the profile committee. In view of the very serious tasks we have set before our strong structures, we have also appointed the head of the National Guard, the National Guard Commander of Ukraine. At the suggestion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I introduced a draft Decree (No.4485) on the appointment of Poltorak Stepan Timothyovich as Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is a request to support this candidacy. Stepan Timothyovich is now in the process of creating the National Guard, building the National Guard. We consulted the faction leaders on the Conciliation Council, and they all supported the proposal. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on this proposal so that the National Guard can work fully. Please, Project Decree 4485 support as a whole. Please vote. [[11:09:35]] For 208 Unfortunately, no decision is made. I understand there's not been a faction consultation yet. "To" - 208. Please show the factions, please. The Party of Regions is 5, Fatherland is 60 (I don't understand the position of Fatherland), Impact is 27, 34 is Economic Development, Sovereign European Country is 29, Freedom is 32. Please turn on the microphone of Andrey Cosemyakin, a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! The committee did not consider this candidate, Mr. Poltork Stepan Timothyovich, provided that he did not come to the request of the head of the committee of interior ministers, unfortunately. But, Reverend Alexander Valentine's Day, we discussed this issue at the faction, and today the faction decided: but the person who, in fact, during these events that were in Midan, was bringing students, standing against us, against the people who went out to Midan, she didn't intervene when they hit the Automatians at the Harkow Academy when they were taking the students out. She did not do anything, but did the deed of Major General Woronchenko, who heads the coast guard in Crimea. So I think this candidature is more conducive to the authority of this Nazgwardia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! I would then like to consider this issue on the committee so that we still have a common position and take into account the proposals and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because this is where General Woronchenk's professional work is going to be promoted in the Ministry of Defence system, and there is a need in the Ministry of Defense for tested patriots, professionals who are supposed to work for their knowledge and benefit our state. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the next very important question, the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Colleagues, I ask you to sit down in your seats, a very important question, it is very serious about the security of our country. This is a draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2014 to participate in multinational education. I'd like to ask your colleagues to take this matter very seriously. On the rostrum, I ask the Supreme Council to serve as Defence Minister Michael Volodymirovich Koval. Very briefly, please inform us about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The adoption of the bill is necessary to comply with the requirements laid down in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine for the admission of other States' military forces to Ukraine for participation in multinational military training in 2014. The bill provides for the admission of branches of other states to participate in eight multinational studies, and our departments and EU and NATO countries are involved in the training. At the same time, the number of military personnel in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is equal to the number of foreign military personnel. Some 2,500,000 troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and about the same number of other partner states are planned to participate in the training. The very idea, the spirit of these teachings, is consistent with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the principles of internal and external politics and the non-blocking status of our state. The main subject of training is to prepare for international peace and security operations, humanitarian and search and rescue operations on land and water, as well as to protect the borders of our country, the decision of the President of Ukraine to conduct multinational training requires prompt approval in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Untimely adoption of it can lead to complications associated with the conclusion of international technical agreements for training and the implementation of preparations for them by both our Armed Forces and our partner nations. The training costs are included in the 2014 budget. In addition, our partners have traditionally directed considerable resources to carry out these trainings. Participation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in multinational learning is a good opportunity to develop our operational skills, and raising the field school will strengthen confidence and security among the participating countries. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to continue to inform the Supreme Council on this matter. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u46	Companions of the Magnificent! Training is conducted between May and November. Such teachings are 8. We're expecting about 17 participating countries. We expect more than 7,000 people to participate in the training. Training will take place in the south of Ukraine, in Mikolaiyevska, in the Black Sea Aquarium. They will pass to the west of Ukraine: at the Yavorov region and at the Uzhgorod mountain range, as well as at 5 airports, 2 airlines. I want to emphasize that the training will involve the Naval Forces and Marines and Coast Guards, who will be there to tell their partners about the events in Crimea. The committee supported by a majority of votes, an agreed project with all interested ministries and offices. There are no comments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u47	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? There's no need. I see only one hand: the people's deputy Griesenka. Please turn on his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the bill, it is very important. In addition, take the opportunity to listen, please, to what Kozemyakin told you: It is essential that the National Guard be led by an officer of the Armed Forces, not by the internal forces, not by the militia. If we want the National Guard to truly become a new military formation, not some kind of parody to the internal forces, the more there has to be an army officer. That's the first one. The other one. Don't propose to anyone who was against Maidan any more, because the National Guard is going to have the boys who showed up, the real soldiers, during Maidan. And when the commander-in-chief becomes the one who was against them, it undermines trust. Don't make any more of this mistake, or you'll have Voronchenk or another army officer candidature, and the whole room will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I beg you, everyone has supported the proposal that has now been announced from the rostrum. I would like to remind you that we are now discussing the approval of the draft law on the President's decision to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine for participation in multinational education. This should take place during this year, it is very important to strengthen our country’s resilience. I'm asking you, Your Honor, all national deputies to support this project. I'll remind you, his number 4561. First, colleagues, let's put it in order of the day, so that everything is in line with the Rules, and then we'll make decisions. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda of our meeting. Please vote. [[11:18:49]] For 235 Thank you, yes, 235. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please support this bill (No.4561) as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:19:20]] For 235 Decision taken. I sincerely thank all the national deputies who supported this project, and I ask you to show by factions. Regional Party 3, Fatherland 76, Impact 35, Economic Development 32, Sovereign European Ukraine 29, Freedom 32, Company 0, non-fractional 28. Dear colleagues! We will not do our duty to the citizens if we do not support in our second reading the draft Law (registration number 2664) amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads). Dear colleagues, I will remind you. I know what I'm doing. Let's take this law and then I can take a break for an oath. Colleagues, I'll explain the importance of this law. Without these technical changes coming out of the adopted new Constitution and from other legislative changes that have taken place, we will not be able to conduct fair, transparent, efficient, effective elections to the local councils that will take place on May 25th. We actually don't have time to support and implement these proposals. Without them, the process will not be carried out as required by the Ukrainian people. I ask, please, Ruslan Petrovich, this is the second reading, so keep the MPs informed very briefly about the content of the law so that we can now vote on it as a whole. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u50	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I spoke about the content of the law when I was speaking in the first reading. I can only now comment on what the situation is before we consider this law in a second reading. By order of the Supreme Council, the committee had considered the bill, and a comparative table had been prepared for the second reading. Since the bill was prepared for a shorter preparation procedure, i.e. twice as short a deadline, 311 amendments were made to 17 Ukrainian national deputies, 156 of whom are proposed to take into account, 42 to take into account in part, 11 to take into account editorial details, and 102 to reject. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee has supported the proposal to adjust the title of the bill and that this bill is now not only about the election of local council members, but also about amending other laws related to these issues. As a result of the discussion, a unanimous decision is taken by the committee: recommending to the Supreme Council this bill as a result of a second reading review to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. At the same time, given that this bill has been in order for the second week, and literally two days later, we have an electoral campaign, the committee proposes to make certain amendments regarding the terms of the consideration of individual articles, as well as their correlation, taking into account these circumstances, in particular. Since it is envisaged to make an oath to the members of the territorial election committees, it is proposed that article 20, part 3, paragraph 2, be completed, namely, that the authorization of the territorial election commission in the newly formed composition begins with the formation of the oath by a majority of the composition of the territorial election commission determined in the formation of its composition at the meeting of this commission. Such a meeting shall be convened by the head of the TVC and shall take place no later than the second day following the decision of the committee. Next. The bill proposes to clarify the individual lines, and article 33, part 1, paragraph 1, provides that changes and refinements of the updated voter list may be made by the 18th hour of the last Saturday before the day of the vote. It is also proposed in part 3 of article 48 to delete the words “the payment for the use of the premises is made in accordance with article 65 of this Act”. Because this article provides for such a payment to be made exclusively from the state and local budgets. Finally, it is suggested that the amendments to article 30, part 5 and 6, of the CLTC Law should be clarified and that if a member of the CLTC dies, his mandate should be regarded as a death certificate. This is going to be in line with the new wording of the Constitution. And the last. Since the bill envisions the formation of the Central Election Commission for the new composition of the Kiev, Odessa, municipal election committees, it is proposed to reduce the deadlines for their formation, since the statutory deadlines can no longer be met physically. However, to foresee that these committees should be formed no later than the fifth day after the entry into force of this law, they should be submitted accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u52	It's like the third day from the day the law came into force. It is also proposed that in these terms the Central Election Commission form districts in Kiev and Odessa election commissions. In doing so, members of the Odessa and Kyiv Election Commission have ceased to form them in a new warehouse. I would like to point out, Mr. Head, that in preparing the text of the adopted law for the signing of the Head of the Supreme Council, the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, is carrying out its technical and legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the rapporteur? There's a question for the reporter. Please, I can see a few hands, lots of hands. Let's write it down from the factions of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u54	Questions to be asked, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u55	Right next to you. To help us, we will now find out so that we can immediately vote in the committee. Let's listen to the MPs. Please sign up. It's from the dubnevich Faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u56	I ask you to pass the word to Chernezi Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u57	Please turn on Roman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u58	Roman Cherneg, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Madam Reporter, indeed, legislation on local elections needs improvement. And I'd rather have proposals for you than questions. But what you called the main points that really need to be taken in connection with the fact that we have a lot of local elections on May 25, and the procedure, and a lot of time, let's say, cut it down, and that's the right thing to do. But there are a number of questions that we would like to discuss and raise about ten amendments to confirm. So, first of all, the request, Alexander Valentine's Day, to you: at the time of adoption of the amendments, to put the amendments that we're going to make for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u59	Okay. Ten amendments I'm going to allow the members of the Impact Group to announce these amendments, and I'm going to put them in for confirmation. Please, Shevchenko, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u60	I'd like to hear a response to the three amendments that were developed by the media community registered by my name. And please pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u61	Please, Nicholas Tomenck.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u62	Dear reporter, we had a faction debate on this subject today. Once again, I would like you to give an argument as to why the committee unanimously decided to ban intra-party democracy in Ukraine. I believe that if the law, including 131 and 132 amendments, were to be adopted in this edition, where the Politburo formed lists of heads of rural, rural, urban, rural, district, district, city council, then we should change the Law on Political Parties, make party leaders and party supporters. There is no point in running local organizations. So I will also insist that these amendments be confirmed. And I don't understand the logic, we have the courts, Janukovic doesn't make us create pseudo-party organizations. I think party leaders are interested in having local organizations present their candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u63	Please comment, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u64	With reference to Andrew Shevchenka’s question. Mr. Andrey, your amendments are, in fact, taken into account. They're just not accounted for where you proposed, they're included in another part of the law. This is a case in which advertising materials must be broadcast on weekends for the corresponding customers. According to the law, the data will now be at least 15 percent of the text on the screen, as others have electoral laws that are necessarily reflected. So that's the question that's been solved, not specifically in your amendments, but in other articles of the law, I think I'd ask you to agree. So it doesn't matter where it's resolved. The main thing is that they are essentially solved. With regard to the question asked by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of political relevance, of course. And the session room will be determined by this question. What were the arguments on the committee, I can explain. The fact is that we have this incident, in fact, this amendment came about in the light of two circumstances. The first situation is when there is no local organization. There are many such cases. We have political forces, which unfortunately do not have local organizations, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u65	Please enable the completion of the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u66	is considered. Dear colleagues, this amendment is unanimously supported. So I'd like all the arrows not to move, mind these circumstances. And your right now to put it on confirmation and support. The second question is the so-called problem of clones. When artificially called local organizations are created, there is no way for the central governing body to influence such organizations. Therefore, if the local organization has broken the statute and has properly nominated these candidates, regardless of the decision of the statute, such a rule has been proposed. But that doesn't mean it's dogma. If the session room doesn't support it, we can't insist on it, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I will express the position of my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, who have asked me to speak on this issue. Please place 306 and 307, 306, 307 and 308 separately for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u69	We haven't started yet. We haven't gotten to that yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u70	Again, I'm sorry, numbers? The numbers are called straight again. The number line?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u71	307 and 308 for confirmation separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u72	307 and 308, absolutely. Dear colleagues, Olesia Donnyy. And we're going to make decisions about confirmation of the amendments, and then about the law itself. And Suškević, I'm sorry, I'm sure I'll give you a chance, Valeriy Mihajlovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen! So there's a lot of positive changes in the bill, but I don't have a question, Mr. Ruslan, I have an indignation. With amendment 131, this bill cannot be adopted. I recall that this is prohibited from placing candidates in city heads, in city deputies to local party organizations, and this right is passed exclusively on to central party bodies. You're saying this is true where there are no local organizations? That's not true! It clearly says here that where there are local organizations and they put out such candidates, this right is denied, I can quote you as it is written. "The decision of the local candidate organisations is reversed." So that's the dictatorship that denies democracy. And I can't vote in such an editorial for the entire law, and I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I have a feeling that we're going to have to film this amendment in order to support the hall. Mr. Ruslan, comment and go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u75	I have, in principle, commented, but since this question will be asked for support, Mr. Olese, if it is not supported, the committee will not insist on its preservation. That's a question for the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u76	I see. Turn on the microphone, please, National Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u77	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich, for paying attention to the problems of the disabled. Ruslan Petrovich, me. I'm here, Suskevich. I very much respect your professional level as an expert in dealing with electoral legislation. But, you know, you can't vote, after all, on election laws for national MPs, on election laws for local deputies, on the election of the President of Ukraine, on violation of people with disabilities, on citizens of Ukraine with disabilities. The President's Elections Act, all my amendments to the rights of the electorate disabled are disregarded, and I am indignant. The same is happening now, and in this law, none of my amendments are basic, which takes account of the rights of the electorate disabled. People are asking me: To what time will national MPs ignore those people who are most socially vulnerable and most discriminated against in their rights. My amendments are all rejected, I ask them to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u79	And in general, I want both the Central Electoral Commission, and experts, and you personally, to mean that people want to end up, after criminally speaking, as we told the authorities to take them into account, their rights and capabilities, although limited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u81	I will comment, but I cannot agree that we strongly deny the possibility of voting. On the contrary, many things are included in legislation. There are certain things that aren't really counted. Well, for example, about the possibility of putting a Braille matrix on a ballot paper, it's technically impossible. Braille, it's big in size, and it's in small font. And technologically, when this rule was in law, it used to be, it couldn't be applied in practice -- it's a dead norm. We can of course write it in the law right now, it won't be implemented in practice -- it's not our ghost, it's just technologically impossible. This kind of desire I personally have, and for example, I am willing to support it. But let it not happen that in the Law it will not be realized, and then again we will be guilty of granting such a right, and someone there will not change it. As far as other things are concerned, there's a few things that aren't counted, some things that aren't counted. Why is it out of the question? What is out of the question is taken into account in another way, we recommended to the Central Electoral Commission in our explanations, in our posters that explain how to vote these questions. And we're also making a separate block, more precisely specimens, copies of information posters for candidates who are not just going to hang out, they're just going to be on the election board, so that a person with a bad vision or a physical vision can't see it, it was in your amendments, it just came to the commission and physically got it, and I can read that he doesn't have to do it from the wall. Of course, something we could have done, we've taken into account, for example, that the person who's at home and can't move has to be alone when he's making his will. This amendment is included. For indeed there is a reproach, a shameful practice, when man is alone, and accordingly this amendment. No, it's counted. Okay. Stand by for confirmation. But there are some things that are technically impossible to do, especially that the Central Election Commission, which was present in all working groups and subcommittees, has expressed a position that makes these processes impossible. We can take these things into account at all times.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u82	I'm sorry. Ruslan Petrovich, I get it. Come on, your honors, the hall wants to vote and we have a wish, I can see in the hall, I can see the vote. But we do have the amendments that national MPs insist on. I would ask for all the amendments they insist on, I see all the hands, honourable colleagues, national deputies, so that we can either confirm them now or remove them from the draft law. I am the first to make proposals to the national deputy of Chernezi, who is the sound of the amendments that his faction insists on. 10 were called amendments and each of them, I take it, we should, if not rejected, put on confirmation. You will comment on them. Please turn on the microphone and don't turn it off until we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u83	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, the question is, exactly what Mr. Mikola Tomenko raised, the authority of the local party organizations is now on the big question of why the question arose to the rapporteur and, in fact, to these amendments. Because a number of authority from local party organizations are limited and passed on to the central governing body of the party. So with regard to the amendments. Please place on confirmation the next amendment number 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u84	Number 50, what does it have to do with anything, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u85	In this regard, it refers to the submission of candidates to the territorial election committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u86	And we can do another thing, we can do one amendment that we're removing, we're depriving you of rights, and then you're assigning the committee and we're removing by text all of these things that are taken into account for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u87	No, let's put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Let's really do this, I'm going to set up a hall to remove the amendment that the committee supported, 131st. When this proposal is passed, then all the amendments related to 131 will be deleted automatically. Both the vote and the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u89	As for the committees, the observers.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u90	And by observers, including. So these are connected things, no objections? Can I put 131 away from the law? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do this, a moment's notice, I'm asking the national deputy of Montenegro then to name all these amendments so that we can look at them with a packet then, please call them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor! We're just literally 10 amendments -- it's not a lot that takes time for us, I'd ask by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u92	Give them a name.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u93	However, we should put every amendment to the vote. Thank you. To be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u94	Please name the amendment numbers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u95	Amendment number 50.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u96	50.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u97	Are we going to be in line, or are we all going to call it?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u98	No questions asked. Please take Ruslan Petrovich's card so we can vote now. Now, let's do it. Dear colleagues! I understand it's an amendment that's counted, so you don't want to confirm it, but you want to delete it, right? For confirmation, no questions asked. Confirm and. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We've wasted a lot of time and grown even more, let's go through the procedure, you'll name all the adjustments where there's no objection, and at the rest of the seats the MPs will name where we vote for support or for rejection. And we will quickly solve the problem with this law. If we're chasing it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u100	Viktor Mikhailovich, 311 amendments – it will only be a list of these amendments for two hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u101	Alexander Valentinovich, that doesn't mean there's gonna be a vote on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u102	Victor Mikhailovich, I say again, we will put to the vote all the amendments that your faction insists on. Don't worry, 10 amendments, we'll put each of them to a vote, but 311, sorry, colleagues, we'll go two hours after the amendments that aren't supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u103	Alexander Valentine's Day, I have a mocking request not to interrupt the Ukrainian national deputy when he was given the floor. I'm asking one, we'd have finished this law a long time ago if we had followed procedure. Because every time we're going to go all over the text, because in many factions, it's the same thing. Let's go through with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I'm prepared to proceed with the procedure, that's 311 amendments. When the room is in place, I'm ready to go through with it. No questions, let's work, when colleagues insist. 1 amendment — included. The 2nd is accounted for. Number three: accounted for. 4's a negative. Someone insists on the fourth amendment? Don't insist. Five a's down. 6th. They're insisting on the 5th, I understand? On the 6th. Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u105	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. The substance of my amendment is the change in the city mayoral system. We propose that we already apply European practice, where the formula is the majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority majority. This is the case in Belgium, Greece, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, France, the Czech Republic, where local councils are elected, and directly the electorates Germany, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia. In Italy, for example, it is already active in municipalities where there are more than 15,000 inhabitants. We offer cities with a population of more than 500,000. And this will enable us to avoid choosing the mayors of one social group, which will undermine voter bribery and allow us to choose legitimate measures that will work for the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u106	Please comment to the short profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, well, it's once again a matter of political relevance, the session room has to be defined. What were the arguments on the committee? The committee was firm on the fact that the electoral system could not change during the election. We have an election every week — local councils, rural, village, and city heads. And until the next election, we haven't changed the system. Neither our practice nor the Venice Commission allows us to do that. If you think it's appropriate to change this thing, it's a matter for the session room. What other argument did he give us? What is 500,000 inhabitants? We understand that there are 500,000 voters, we don't understand what 500,000 people are. But even with this qualification in mind, does that mean that 499,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u108	Ruslan Petrova, come on, insists MP. I'm betting on confirmation of this amendment. Please, amendment number 6, People's Deputy Catherinechuk. Please identify the room with regard to this amendment. [[11:43:07]] For-95 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, I'm the only one in the room again. I'll go through all 311 amendments. As a result, Victor Mikhailovich, look, I feel like we're going to vote on all the amendments, and we're not going to adopt the law at the end. And he will be grateful to these local councils that we will cancel the election. Let's keep working. Next, dear colleagues. 7-a, 8-a, 9-a, 10-a, no objection. 11 – rejected amendment. Who insists on 11 amendments? Don't insist. Let's move on. 12th, 13th, 14th, count. 15th is rejected. Are they insisting on the 15 amendments? Don't insist. 16th is negative. Is the National MP selling on this amendment? Don't insist. 17th, accounted for. 18th is rejected. Is the National MP insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. The 19th is accounted for. 20th is negative. Is the National MP insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. 21st, accounted for. 22nd, accounted for. 23rd is rejected. Is the National Deputy Knyazevitch insisting on this amendment? No, it doesn't. Dear colleagues! The MPs insisted, I'll work under the Rules, completely. Pinzenic Victor Mikhailovich explained this. The 24th is rejected. Is the Karpunz people's deputy insisting on the amendment? Don't insist. 25th is supported. 26th, accounted for. 27th, accounted for. 28th is rejected. Does the National MP insist on 28 amendments? No, it doesn't. 29th, accounted for. 30th, accounted for. 31st is rejected. The National MP insists on 31 amendments? No, it doesn't. 32 Amendment rejected. Is the National MP insisting? No, it doesn't. 33rd, 34th, 35th, 36th, count. 37th is rejected. Is the national MP insisting on an amendment rejected? Don't insist. 38th is rejected. There is no insistence on voting on this amendment. Don't insist. 39th is rejected. Is the National MP insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. 40, accounted for. 41st is rejected. Is the National MP insisting on this amendment? Don't insist. 42nd is negative. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. 43 is rejected. Is there a desire for a national MP to put to the vote? I won't. 44th, accounted for. 45th is rejected. 46th is rejected. 47th is rejected. Do any of the national MPs insist? Don't insist. Dear colleagues! I'd ask to save time, I'd call an amendment that's rejected. A national MP who insists will raise his hand, then I will give him my word. 47th is rejected. Don't insist. It's 48, 49, 50. [[B in m in s a l in]] 50th is counted, but honourable national MPs ask her to confirm it. Is that what I'm saying? To the vote. Dear colleagues, 50 revisions. Is there a need to comment on it? None. She was commented on by Montenegro’s national deputy. Please accept this amendment. Please confirm the inclusion of this amendment in the law. Please vote. [[11:47:10]] For-49 No correction supported. She's getting rid of it. Next, dear colleagues. 51st, accounted for. 52th, 53rd, accounted for. 54th is counted. 55th is rejected. People's deputies insist? Don't insist. 56th is rejected. People's deputies insist? Don't insist. 57th is rejected. Don't insist, I understand. People's deputy Knjazević. Number 58, 59. At 59th, please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Karpuntsov. This is your amendment, comment. People's deputy Karpuntsov. I'll give it to you by the book.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u109	I'd like to ask you for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u110	Please confirm the 59th amendment. Please turn on Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u111	I just don't understand why? Look. This amendment applies accordingly to documents submitted to the electoral commission. As for the members of the committee. What's wrong? Here's a statement, a copy of the passport and so on. Why doesn't that count for 7 without it we can't form a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u112	The National MPs withdrew the amendment. Don't insist. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u113	Your Honor, please. If it's about the central governing body, we're going to make a political decision, we're going to delete it by text. Because right now we're going to have to remove something like this so we can't keep the law. We can't do all this, my friends! You saw one word and you want to delete it. You don't understand what's behind this. We need to see this law in a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, let's consult again. In the case that we're 131, I see in the mood of the room, we're removing the amendment, that's to say that without the central organs of the party that can make decisions on the submission of the lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u115	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u116	Ruslan Anatolyevich, a minute. This applies to the central authorities of the party. Let's figure out when we make this amendment, now I'm going to put 131 to the vote. When it's not confirmed, we're going to give an order -- all the amendments related to it will be removed. Is that the position taken? Roger that. In order for this to be a regulatory norm and we have clearly defined this by the committee's protocol commission when we adopt the law. Let me now put 131 amendments to the vote for confirmation. When it is not confirmed, we make all the adjustments related to it. We're taking them all down, that's right. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I ask you to put it under the transcript when we vote 135th. Remove all positions of law that provide for the central authority of the local party organisation. This also applies to promotions, this applies to the formation of commissions, the submission of nominations, this applies to replacements for members of the commission, this applies to nominations for observers, trusted, authorized persons. So all of the powers of the central organ are taken down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u118	Colleagues, I'm betting on backup right now. Attention, please, members of the strike squad, attention. I'm putting 131 on maintenance right now. It will not be supported, and we will remove any amendments related to it. Right? That's right. Please, Your Honor. Guys, calm down. Please, Your Honor, make sure that there are no further questions about 131 amendments. I'm betting on building 131 of the amendment. To be confirmed, I'm sorry to confirm this amendment. Please identify yourself in the hall. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:51:33]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, for the stenographer, we're removing 131 amendments in relation to not being supported. This relates to the central authorities of the parties that could submit lists and make decisions about observers, members of the committees, and so forth. We're removing all the amendments that we have to do with this. Because this amendment did not receive the support of the hall. Understand? I see. People's Chamberlain, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, of course, I just want to clarify. That's another 157, 158 and 160. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u120	Thank you. We've fixed it for the stenographer. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there still insistence on repairs? Blackwolf, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u121	There is amendment 124, which says that only the political parties can raise. I think it was when I put it up that I got the hell confused. Because the Law on Elections to the Supreme Council may include self - exaltation. And here I was trying so hard, yes. I don't know, let the committee comment on why he unanimously supported this stupid amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u122	Alexander Vilenovich, go to church, the devil will not be confused then. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u123	And I'm betting it on confirmation. And I'd like to ask Mr. Knyazevich. 158 articles that refer to central authorities as candidates, are we also taking pictures? Yeah. But now comment on 124 and put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, can you hear me? Shut up. The point is that my first reading of this law provided for such a right. Indeed, after we held the elections in 2010, we were very much criticised by the international community, by the observer missions for denying us the right to self-registration of the respective mayoral candidates, as well as the candidates for the post of deputy. But since Alexander Vilenović proposed the rule of removal, and the committee supported not me, but him, that was the decision that was made. If he's changing his position now, then let the session room be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u125	124 amendments, I understand, are an insistence on putting it on confirmation. Yes, Alexander Vilenovich? Okay. Dear colleagues, I'd like to confirm 124 amendments. Please identify the hall. [[11:54:14]] For-40 Decision taken. I understand that self-reliants can work now, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u126	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u127	Please comment, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, what's the problem now? The point is that we are actually removing a barrier for self - exaltation, and the law does not provide for a bail. This means that in us, God forbid, a situation may arise when we cannot print a newsletter. Because you know we have limits, there's no more than a meter that can be printed.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u129	And there will be technical candidates, and there will be others.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u130	Yes. So in view of the fact that this rule is now restored, well, I don't even know, let's make a political decision, maybe, that we vote for the amendment that we're setting up the monetary bond and commissioning the committee in the process, to clearly determine the size of this pledge for each candidate. Because if we don't do it now, we can tear up the individual corresponding cities and villages of the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, we can take this proposal into account so that we can write the same article on the monetary pledge and the committee can define this monetary pledge. No objections? I won't. We're backing it up. Is there anyone else who insists on repairs, dear colleagues? Black people's deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u132	Dear Ruslan Petrovich, I would like you to comment on the 254th amendment to the second part, particularly the decision of the committee to recalculate the votes. In particular, the decision taken by the territorial electoral commission to recalculate the votes after the voting documents have been adopted by the relevant office is not allowed if the integrity of the package with the packaged documents has been detected. I mean, what are we talking about? Did I rightly realize that if a package of documents had been discovered that had been damaged by electoral documents, then the commission could not decide to count the votes?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u133	You've got it all wrong. The point is that now, by law, before the adoption of the documents, they can recalculate if the whole of the packets is damaged. But if they had accepted the documents, they had no completeness at that time, then on the second day they could not apply the reason for the night’s stay. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u134	Take that question off. Because there were facts when at night they were specially counterfeiting, destroying documents, breaking packages, and so forth. Dear colleagues, so that there will be no attempt even to fake after the sums have been drawn up. Dear colleagues, can we put the bill to the vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] National deputy Shevchenko, please. I see Valery Mikhailovich Suškevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u135	Ruslan Petrovich, I'll draw your attention to 164 amendments. I thank you for listening to the other media community proposals. 164 amendments are about forms of agitation. She was wrong year after year, under the adage she was referring to political advertising and through whom, interviews, films, drawings, and so forth. This, on the one hand, legalized the gin and, on the other hand, created problems for the TV channels. Because if an interview occurs, for example, other candidates may view it as an electoral campaign, demand the same amount of time, and do media work. So the offer is simple. Under agitation, we consider only what goes under the cap of political advertising, a dot. For the purposes of this law, anything outside the cap of political advertising is not an electoral campaign. This is a proposal from the media community, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u136	Dear Andrey Vitaliyovich, the point is that this is the norm that came into this law, and it's a word in duplicate from other election laws: The Law on Elections of People’s Deputies and the Law on Elections of the President. In the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies, she appeared at the suggestion of the Venice Commission. When we were improving. This is a new amendment, which only recently appeared before those last elections. If you think it's absorbing. Because at the time, remember, we thought that any performance that was hidden under any interview and so on could take the form of political advertising, and in fact, if you didn't write it in the law, it wouldn't be considered that way. So again, this is a question for the session room. If we're going to solve this now, then we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u137	Takes off Andrew Shevchenko this proposal. Dear colleagues, I can't help but give my word to Valery Suškević. Guys, come on. Fix it, Valery Mikhailovich. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u138	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, I have four amendments concerning the electoral rights of people with disabilities. Dear colleagues, the leaders of all factions, I ask you to pay attention to your elector who, without his hands, without his legs, can't see, moves on a wheelchair.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u139	Valerius Mikhailovich, call the amendments, specific amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u140	I'm asking you to support these voters and their election rights, over 3 million of them. And I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u141	Valeriy Mihajlovich, amendment numbers, please call.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u142	Please correct. The first amendment is 102, which refers to the procedure for clarifying voter voting outside the constituency, at home. Please support this amendment, 102 amendment. Factions, please support the electoral rights of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u143	Comment, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u144	The point is, dear colleagues, we had a discussion on this subject. First of all, there's this possibility in the nominations and it's clearly written. Secondly, the ballot papers themselves contain a voting procedure that. Thirdly, we recommended that the Central Electoral Commission do so to its respective members. But this is a right that is not provided by law — that is, if it does not even adhere to it, we cannot oblige the members of the commission to do these things. The Central Election Commission promised that it would take them into account in its recommendations. And when your assistant was, in principle, she agreed. I don't mind, for example, I'm willing to vote for it. I'll vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u145	Let's put it in support of Amendment 102. Please support Amendment 102. Dear colleagues, please vote [[12:00:33]] For 168 The amendment did not receive a number of votes. Valerius Mikhailovich, are there any other suggestions? Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I do hope you will. And, Mr. Ruslan, I'd like to say that what's involved in law and clarity is different things. The CEC can make an explanation to do anything and the rights of the electorate disabled should be prescribed in the law. So please, Amendment 171 refers to information posters for people who can't see, they can't read these posters in polling stations. I've been told a thousand times by voters how badly they see it. I ask you, there's an increased font of information posters on polling stations -- it's very easy to meet electoral rights of people who don't see well. Please support this amendment by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u147	The point is, Mr. Valeria, we've removed the notion of information posters, which is no longer in the law for local elections. Because it was much more expensive than the campaign itself. We've decided that such posters of any kind should be done at the expense of electoral funds as is the case around the world. We are not the richest nation in the world, but so far we use the most in the world from the state's local budget to hold elections. Therefore, since there is no subject, there is no need to make changes to what does not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u148	I see. Next amendment, Valery Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u149	I've just read, first of all, there's information posters in the right column. Mr. Ruslan, read your bill. There are information posters.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u150	Valerius Mikhailovich, the information posters that the candidates themselves accounted for. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u151	This is about posters that explain the order*** voting. And as for those posters, really, I've already explained to you, we're going to be making a special extra copy that's going to be on the district election committee so that people can come and read and not look at the wall, I commented. If you think it's appropriate that they have to be printed in a different font, they can imagine that they're going to cry as they're going to be made. If the hall supports me, I'm willing to support myself. But as technology has it, the Central Election Commission has no technological solution to this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u152	Valerius Mikhailovich, please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u153	The next amendment is 224, which applies to respectable friends, to any disabled person who comes to the polling station and is simply architecturally unavailable. I can't personally vote in many polling stations, like thousands of people with disabilities. Amendment 224 concerning the provision of barrier-free voting facilities, as provided for in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, signed by the President of Ukraine and ratified by the Supreme Council. I ask you to support the unchallengedness of the polling stations. Please vote for the rights of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u154	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the point is that we don't make electoral areas in these elections. We are for local elections and this is provided for in the first articles of the law. And to do that, in principle, we're changing this law to conduct elections simultaneously, we're using those polling stations that were built on a permanent basis in 2012. They're already built in buildings of certain, certain buildings, you write building requirements and so on. Since we're not making these things right now, we can only recommend that the Central Electoral Commission adjust the premises that already exist. We did this, but it's impossible to apply these rules now, because we don't make them in these elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! I bet you support amendment 224, please identify yourself and support the room. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u157	I'm in. [[12:04:56]] For-170. Unfortunately, the decision is not taken. Please, Valery Mikhailovich, are there any other amendments? None. Yes. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u158	You know, it's sad for me, dear colleagues, that in this House, under the new authority, I can say that none of my amendments concerning the rights of people with disabilities are accepted. Shameful, and the last amendment applies to people who lie down and vote in their apartments. I asked, Mr. Ruslane, that the secret voting regime should be written for those people who are lying there and where quietly in and out of the room, in their apartment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u159	What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u160	Wait. 233rd. quietly place the cross without them. And this is done in every election! Listen, let's vote to someone who can't come to the polling station in secret. I just wrote "privately in secret voting mode" in terms of lying. Vote for it, do not violate the rights of those who are in that condition, and I am amazed and shocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u161	Is this number 224, do I get it right? 233.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this amendment, although it is still partially taken into account, but since there is such a problem, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! One minute, I'll suggest the next. Let's make this amendment go away, we're going to adopt the law as a whole, taking into account this amendment. Yes, for it to pass, I ask you to uphold the law. The secretary will ask the people's deputies to the hall. And also, honourable colleagues, to take account of the mortgage, because the Hall did not support the proposal that existed before this, that only political parties and organizations put out deputies. Three hundred. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, one more amendment, two more amendments, turn on the microphone of the people's deputy, Zharavsky, 307, 308. Is that what I'm saying? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, I'm just asking for confirmation from 307 and 308. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u165	Ruslan Petrovich, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u166	Fellow dignitaries, these amendments relate to the reformation of the composition of the territorial election commissions in Kiev and Odessa. As for the city of Kiev, there is really a huge problem, because you know that we actually have a territorial election commission, it only works for the next election. In fact, we had to hold the next election now, but we cannot do so from the constitutional point of view, since the previous council had worked for five years. We've gone to the point where we've kept the Constitution and we've been holding elections. But the commission, in fact, at least as we're told, including experts, is not effective. So this amendment was born, and the committee supported it. If you remove it now, there might be a problem from the point of view of the organization. But I am not the author of the amendment if the authors of the amendment could explain it more fully. The same goes for what I understand, Odessa, because there are complaints to the Central Electoral Commission about the incapacity of the Odessa commission. And that's why the committee supported them. But the session room has the right to determine. We just have to do this in a thoughtful way so that we don't damage the election organization in these two cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u167	Now. Dear colleagues, the only thing I'm asking is that we really don't ruin the electoral process ourselves. Because we can make changes, I'll remind you, we have less than two months until the day of the vote. We're going to set up tasks that are just technically not done, and then we're going to break the election. Please turn on the microphone for the People's Chamber.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that these standards are very important in the Transitional Situations, because in the Kiev City District Commission, which is in Odessa, we can't actually hold an election today. There are several court decisions against the Odessa territorial election commission. There are more than a hundred international observers. These people should not count the votes, they should have been in prison long ago, members of this committee! The strike party faction, if these amendments are removed, will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, I see that we have a limited number of votes to uphold the law. At the same time, we need to make decisions today. So, dear colleagues, I would now like to ask the hall to sit the deputies in their seats. Fellows, let's define ourselves, because we can now continue the discussion, as a result, the law will not be adopted at all. And we're going to tear down a lot of local, rural, rural, district, and even city councils like Odessa, Kiev, etc. This is a very serious question, fellow believers! Please turn on the microphone so that we can determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u170	Thank you. 267 revisions. Why am I so insistently proposing to the Parliament to change the rules for the selection of city mayors and to choose them in two rounds? We will soon adopt an entirely European system of decentralization of power. Imagine how it's going to work, this new system, the change in local self-government, without the European system of selection of mayors in two rounds. Both Turkinov and Klitschko had already held elections in Kiev where we had space measures that, say, bribed voters through Greek and other motivations. All over the country. And people are born with mayors, they're married, they're in the army with the same measures, they're dying, and they don't change. If we're handing power over to places, we have to give maximum legitimacy to that. Ruslan Petrovich, the Venice Commission, did not object to the duality of elections, since more than ten countries in the European Union carry out this choice of mayors. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u171	Mikola Dmitrovitch, I didn't object either. I even voted when your amendment was being considered. You can see I voted in favour. This isn't about me. This is about the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you again. I can put this amendment to the vote. The only nuance. Colleagues, I understand when it comes to the city of Kiev, the capital, when it comes to large district centers, but when we're in small towns and towns, we're going to have two rounds of elections. First of all, it's a huge cost to the state. So I'd like to ask, Mikolo Dmitrovich, let's get Kiev ready for proposals and we'll make decisions on Kiev. Or an amendment that only applies to the city of Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u173	You're absolutely right. In principle, we have two suggestions. First sentence: cities – more than 500,000 inhabitants. Another offer is that of millionaires. We have two millionaire cities: Kharkiv and Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u174	This is where the district centers are calling. So we put 500,000, over 500,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u175	Ruslan Petrovich, comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u176	I don't know. If the session room is determined, we'll be working together on the committee. I said what a warning. Because there are no criteria. First of all, there's no idea of the inhabitants. You know, no one knows if there's more residents in Cherninovs or Kiev. It's about voters. From the voter point of view, of course, there is a problem because. Now there's going to be other cities in these elections, for example. But given that we've always run a system of relative majority in the rest of the cities, now we're in the absolute majority system to change the system for extracurricular elections. I'm not saying no to anyone. The Venice Commission doesn't say it's against it. She's against changing the rules between the next election. We can change them for the next election, but this is for the next election. Well, it'll be a novelty, let's say, for Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I can see in the mood of the deputies, we have many counterversive positions in the hall. And as a result, one part supports these positions, the other part does not support them. As a result, we will have a failed law that is absolutely necessary. Dear colleagues! Please turn on the microphone for the national MP Kaidi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u178	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I would like first of all to ask members of the coalition not to speak the ultimatum language. If not, yes. There's been a proposal from Hit-and-run, 305, 307 revisions. We'll support it. But at the same time, you will support the amendment proposed by Nicholas Catherinechuk. And the question is off, and we're going to vote on this bill. But the language of the ultimatum should not be present in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, let's talk about the amendment that Mikola Catherinechuk was talking about. Can we call the millionaire cities? Can we? Fellows, dearly otherwise, believe me. There's no such thing. Ruslan Petrovich, maybe I don't know what is really the practice when two tours are held in small cities in Europe. There's no such thing! Let's not fantasize, colleagues. There are millionaire cities. There's a lot of candidates there, and the mayor's responsibility for these places and the prospects for these cities. Let me fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u180	Caterinchuk's amendment is 500 grand, I understand. It's not about small towns.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u181	Five hundred thousand voters. Okay. Then let's give over 500,000 voters. Can we talk? We can. Let's support this amendment. As for two tours, there are over 500,000 voters. Not the inhabitants, but the electorates. Please. Number? This is the corrected amendment of 267 now. Let's look at the result. I'll put it to a vote. Please be supportive. Over 500,000 voters – two tours are held. [[12:15:48]] For-170. Non-supported proposal The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 76, Impact – 19, Economic Development – 5, Sovereign European Ukraine – 21, Freedom – 32, Company – 0, non-fractional – 17. Dear colleagues, can we vote on this law? Katerinczuk, please. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u182	There's a strange situation in the room right now. The Communists come up and say, well, if there were all of them, that would be the case, in principle. I say, are you going to vote for this? They say, "I don't know." Well, they're not voting right now, we see. I don't understand the position. Then let's make an offer. This 280 amendment is relative to the inhabitants, sorry, but article 16 of this law is the same term. Well, there is, unfortunately, yes. I'm against it. They're supposed to be voters. Let's just take one city of Kiev, this is the capital. We will now vote in favour of the mayor in two rounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u183	Please turn on the microphone to the P.O.P.P.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the amendment has just been voted on. She did not support the hall. For what purpose will we now make 27 different editions of this article? There's a committee decision, there's no support for the room, there's no correction, there's no discussion. Please take the 307 and 308 amendments and put the question to the vote as a whole. Adopt legislation as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u185	Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, Mikola Dmitrovitch has made a number of amendments to this. If he continues to insist on their confirmation, we can put them on. It's his right. I can't take it from him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I apologize. I'll give my word to the National Deputy Illenka. But I'm asking colleagues, well, let's do it when the amendment doesn't go through. Well, let's do it in one way or another. We're taking time now, and as a result, we're not going to adopt the law at all. Let us make specific changes to the Capital Law. The committee will quickly conduct them through its meeting. And let's figure out Tuesday on this point in the hall. So that we do not break this law that is necessary for the local council elections. Please, National Deputy Illenko. And then Ruslan Petrovich comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u188	Illenko Andry, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, our experience has already won the Leoni-Cosmos in Kiev, and has taught nothing about what the elections in Kiev lead to on one tour. Let's be honest. I don't know what the committee backs up or doesn't support. But the Chinese support the elections in Kiev in two rounds. Let's go outside now and ask people what they think about this. Everyone wants a two-round election in Kiev. So I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues, let's still vote on this question. Because we have to have a guarantee that the next city head in Kiev is going to be a person who's actually going to be legitimate and supported by most of the Chinese, not 25 percent. And then this person is going to be doing something that's not known. So it's a very big request to consider this question and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u189	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I want to comment. The point is that we cannot make any changes to the status law in relation to elections, because the status law in accordance with the Constitution applies exactly to the status as an administrative unit and to the exercise of authority of local self-government. But what we can do is what Mikola Dmitrovitch offered. He passed a separate bill, amending this law, which applies exclusively to two tours. And so if there's political support, we can vote it separately if we pick it up today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I can put Kiev to the vote for an amendment. Set it up? The capital is the two-round election in the capital. Can we? Let's go now. Please support me. Dear colleagues, I have the respect of the Chinese. The capital really needs a careful approach to choosing a leader who will actually present the capital on economic, social issues, including political issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u191	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u192	Let's look at the reaction of the hall. Please support, this is about tours in Kiev. Please support me, Your Honor. [[12:20:47]] For 184 The decision is not taken. Only 184 deputies voted in favour. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 79, Impact 28, Economic Development 6, Sovereign European Ukraine 17, 32 Freedom, 0 Company, 20 non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I feel so strongly that we are still voting, and the law will not pass at all. I suggest you, your honor, I suggest you all calm down, take your seats. We need to adopt the law. As far as Kiev is concerned. Let's protocolly assign to the next session a separate law on elections in Kiev. The law prepared by the national deputy, Catherinechuk. And now, dear colleagues, we need to ensure effective voting, effective elections in Kiev. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm asking you very much for your support. Is there a novice, a national MP? I won't. That's his amendment. I can give him my word, let him comment. She's refusing to withdraw this amendment, I understand? Yeah. Dear colleagues, please, please, support, friends, support this law. The Law on Amendments to the Election of Deputies. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u193	308 amendments remove this law altogether. Because they won't vote, the colleagues won't vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I'm not violating anything. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on the bill. I have a big question before the vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support Law 4561. No, I'm sorry, 2664 (this second reading) is the basis of this law. Please, in general, I apologize, in general, I was wrong. Don't turn on the "Race" system. Once again, Law 2664, which we considered in the second reading, was to be adopted in general. Colleagues, I ask you to support this proposal and vote. Vote please, Your Honor. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[12:23:08]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions" – 2, "Paternity" – 58, "PART" – 33, "Economic development" – 22, "Sovereign Ukraine" – 27, "Freedom" – 32.0 – Company, 24 – non-fractional. Please, committee, if you'd like to make an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, since we do not make decisions, we will not be able to hold elections at the same time. Because now it means, well, you can, but it does mean once again the cost of those we tried to eliminate. And that means two election board systems, a huge number of people, different neighborhoods and so on, all that comes out of it. What's more, we're leaving this law in a way that's shameful, for which we should be ashamed, where there's a refusal to register, cancellation of registration, mass falsifications and all that. Those who do not vote make sure that this is preserved further in Ukraine. That's true, everything else is from the wicked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u195	Give Rudzkowski an opportunity to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u196	Alexander Valentinovich, I'm asking the reporter to pick out the words. So we're all interested in getting tired so we can adopt a good piece of legislation that we can run an election on. But let's not do that so that we don't analyze the mistakes made. We all understand that all of the measures, or most of the mayors, are people who build financial pyramids. In the first round, they get 27, 30 percent, and in no case do they have a chance to win the election, to get most of the support. So, let's take a decision today, at least in terms of district centres, Alexander Valentinovich, and the city of Kiev, let's put the vote to a vote, prepare the amendment, the district centers and the city of Kiev, two tours. Then at least we will ensure transparency in the selection of an honest measure that will work for the community, not for a business group in a city or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, well, you and I have agreed that a law will be passed, a more faithful one will be considered on Tuesday, the next one concerning the capital. Colleagues, well, right now we're hitting the polls all over the country. I address all the national MPs and Communists, including. Well, it's about elections all over Ukraine. You and I voted, as I recall, about 250-270 elections to be held on May 25 as well. And now we're putting it under impact, and we're putting it up, and we're holding elections, including in Kiev, in Odessa, and so on. Why do we need this? Dear colleagues, I understand there are some disagreements, we vote them separately. Well, now we can't break this process. So, please, dear fellows, come on, I see the hand raised by the national deputy Kirilenko, the proposals and yet we'll try to make a decision. Please invite everyone to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u198	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Dear voters, honourable chairman, honourable deputies! We normally have to make changes to this law, but take into account the interests of all elections and think about all the electoral campaigns that are to take place, including in the district centers. So I encourage factions who do not support two tours in the district centers or in Kiev to reconsider their position. Because everything that has been going on so far in the election of the leaders of these local communities has led to the fact that the local communities with the battle of the so-called mayors have been forced to shoot. And the criminal cases were, and the fights, and the massacres, and the beatings, and everything. And all of this happened because, especially in Kiev, the election took place on the same tour: they chose who unknown, and then they shot the whole community for 3-4 years. Therefore, Kiev is a fundamental issue. It's two tours now, and it's better for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, we have already voted with you. The offer has not been supported. I repeat that we are passing the law on Tuesday and we are voting on it, which concerns Kiev. When it is necessary to extend this Law to the district centers, please let me put Kiev and Kiev to the vote. But the problem is that, dear colleagues, I don't see a desire to adopt this law in the hall at all. That's what's really bothering me, because we're breaking up the actual election. Maybe someone's doing it consciously. Please, about the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I understand we haven't made it. Now, now, colleagues, let's go to the mayor's election and we'll discuss this separately. Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone. And I see two more hands, I'll give you a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u200	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable Society, Honorable Colleagues National Deputies of Ukraine! I don't want to say puffsy words, but today any vote here in Parliament, it determines Ukraine's future destiny. And it is today that the Kremlin and Putin, which dream of aggression, in terms of Ukraine, are interested, first and foremost, in tearing up elections in Ukraine, both presidential and local. So I urge you, let's take responsibility before our nation, before the Ukrainian people, let's realize that we're here, sitting in this room, we have to become, in fact, those statesmen. And there are laws that should be voted for the preservation of Ukraine, the territorial integrity and tomorrow's future of our nation. Let us vote and move forward, and let us not take steps to please Putin. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u201	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the Fedoruk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to forget that this is about the extra election and we should not change the rules, make exceptions to the general rules. Maximum, in a year and a half, there will be another election, and there will be two tours for the district centers. As for Kiev, Alexander Valentinovich said under a separate law and did not make a problem out of it, it was necessary to vote, adopt the law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, please, the national MP of Packaan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u204	Dear Head, I ask you to return to the hall and vote on this bill. Because if we don't approve of it, then we're ousting all our previous votes. One of the laws is that we're cost-effective, the other we're predicting double areas, double costs. We hit the payoffs to the officials, we hit all the payouts that are in the state, and by other laws, we're depriving it all. And I very much ask some national MPs not to pry when they do not vote. Please put the bill on the ground and vote. Because it is now primarily necessary for our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult with you and, above all, with the committee. We have other than the city of Kiev, where we can make decisions, or now try, or a separate law, what we have spoken to you, is also a problem that applies to election committees in Kiev and in Odessa. Some MPs insist on withdrawing Amendments 307, 308, other deputies feel that without these amendments, the law is meaningless and cannot be voted for at all. As a result, I don't see the balance of votes, so, Ruslan Petrovich, please tell me, is there a compromise option here that the law is still supported by two groups in Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u206	Alexander Valentinovich, I cannot speak on behalf of the committee, especially if the authors of the legislative initiative insist the committee has no right to deny them such constitutional rights. There might be two choices here, either this and that count, or this and that don't count if we're talking about consensus. That's why it's not about the committee, it's about the reconciliation of the political position, I don't know. I'm the only thing I can say, dear colleagues, if we don't adopt this law today, we can't accept it anymore, because we have 4 numbers to start the campaign and so when it starts, we can't change the rules of the game. We have to accept it today, tomorrow it has to be published, and the day after tomorrow it becomes effective, then we'll still be there, if it's not done, there's no point in going back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u207	Please, National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u208	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! Every day when we come to the hall, we know that we have a key law that we cannot get out of this room without accepting it. Alexander Valentinovich, in this connection you announce a break and collect faction leaders, perhaps two or three amendments need to be removed, but the law needs to be adopted. And the second law that needs to be passed today, which awaits society, the people at the Supreme Council are the Amnesty Act. Friends, without these two laws, we can't leave the hall today! So, Alexander Volodymyrovich, take a break gathering faction leaders, and these laws need to be passed, I call on all friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u209	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s representative of Homutinika.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u210	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We still insist that the vote be put to the vote as required by the Supreme Council Rules of Amendment 307, 308. Let the room be determined by these amendments. If they're accepted -- accepted, no -- no. And then our "Economic Development" MPs will give all their votes, no matter how much the room votes for these amendments. But in general, we're going to vote for the law after you put these 307, 308. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u211	Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u212	I just wanted to ask Mr. Vitali why 307, because of Kiev? As far as I can tell, there's a conflict going around Odessa, after the 308th amendment. Is there another problem with Kiev? No, I just understand. Agree What? Say it. If Kiev does, this is another stage of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u213	Please, Sergei Soboljeva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u214	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, what do we get on the way out if the law isn't passed? We're going to have parallel commission formation. Hundreds of millions of extra expenses within Ukraine. So the election will only take place with two parallel committees of election presidents and locals. Do you have any idea what that's going to be? Next, they will take place under the conditions of withdrawal from the registration of candidates in the measure, candidates in the national population. Excuse me, members of the local council, with all the miracles that dissolve, in fact, all the structures exist. So my proposal is this. There are some norms that don't set one side, there are norms that don't set the other side, but to preserve the economy of hundreds of millions of dollars, so that the only vertical is to vote on the presidential and local elections, what we've done is we've corrected a whole series of norms that are not allowed to be removed from registration. We are about to confirm the vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, the 307th amendment has already been removed by colleagues, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u216	I just want to say, Sergei Vladislavovich is absolutely right. Think about it, since there is a rule that, on the second warning, the electoral commission can withdraw from the candidate's registration, on the last night before the 2010 election, nearly three thousand candidates were removed, the vast majority of whom were not even aware that they had been removed from the registration, and they saw it only when they arrived at the polling station. Therefore, respectable colleagues, be careful, and I am sure to urge you to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I do propose to support this bill as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. I'm asking you, let's go back to adopting this law, and then, given that, I have a proposal, as amended, for us to find consensus. Let's go, dear fellows, and we will now return to the adoption of this law. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote and support the return to the vote on Law 2664. Please turn on the "Council" system and please vote, everyone, please vote. It's about coming back. [[12:37:09]] For 207 Unfortunately, we don't even get to vote until we get back. The factions, please. The region's party is only 1. That's what I understand. I'm talking to you. Let me comment. 75, Fatherland, 34, Impact, 9, Economic Development. Although we were only talking about coming back. The Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union – 32, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 25. Dear colleagues, I'm going to have to take a break to meet with the faction leaders. Wait a minute! Until recess, I would ask that we be now, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, take a break. I would ask that we now give two newly elected members of the Central Electoral Commission the opportunity to read and take an oath. Please, in accordance with article 217 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act and article 8 of the Central Election Commission Act, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, when taking office, swears at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Berezuk Catherine Grigorovna, is invited. Please, Catherine Gregory. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u218	I, Berezuk Catherine Grigorovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in the exercise of my powers in the Central Electoral Commission, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position. Be honest, objective, and open - minded in handling matters that are part of the commission’s mandate. Ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u219	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a member of the Central Electoral Commission, Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u220	I, Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, a non-party position. Be honest, objective, and open - minded in handling matters that are part of the commission’s mandate. Ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u221	Thank you. Welcome, fellow members of the Central Electoral Commission. I'm calling a break until 1:00, and I'm inviting you to the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council of Heads of Deputies and factions, as well as the leadership of the Professional Committee. Please, Your Honor, break until 1:00. I also call on the leaders of the MPs and factions to announce the meetings of their national deputies in the first hour. These are very responsible and serious questions. Please take the first hour off.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-01-m0.u222	Dear National Deputies! The Conciliation Council has just ended. Regrettably, the MPs did not find consensus around 308 amendments, and we do not have the opportunity to make decisions on this law at this time. And I see that by other laws we too will not have a successful vote. That is why we conclude today’s session without making a decision. I very much hope and have the commission of a profile committee to harmonize the text of this law. There will also be changes to the time limit for voting so as not to disrupt the May 25 elections. And the first question on Tuesday, April 8, we will begin our consideration of the issues involved in this project in the local elections (urban, rural, rural). We're closing up today. On April 8, at 10 a.m., the Supreme Council will continue its work. In the event of an emergency -- I very much hope that they won't happen -- we'll be gathering an emergency meeting. Thank you.
