ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please insert e-registration cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u2	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Once again, please invite all the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we can't vote with the "Council" electronic system, it doesn't work. Taking into account the written registration, we have registered 227 Ukrainian national deputies. [[Applause]] In order to be able to continue our work and adopt a decision, I will ask, taking into account part two of article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to make a decision by raising hands. I'm asking you to delegate to the Counting Commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Society, we have a Counting Commission. The deputy head of the Counting Commission is the national deputy of Switzerland. Or is it a substitute? Igor? Oleg Kanovets, Oleg Kanovets. I would like to ask the national deputy Oleg Kanovts to organize a vote count and a vote count. Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask the people's deputies to now vote in favour of the proposed voting procedure. Whoever made that decision, please raise your hand. Oleg Canoetz, please organize a vote count. Please put it down. You didn't count? Who's against it? Who held up? Thank you. 227. We're continuing our work. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to ask the national deputies not to interfere with the plenary session. [[B in m in s a l in]] No one voted against it. Ladies and gentlemen, for the national MPs, so that we can speak today, we will now make a statement that each faction will express its position, also non-factional about the situation that has taken place in Ukraine. I suggest that we determine five or six minutes from factions and deputies who are willing to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the heads of the factions to sign up for an appearance from the rostrum. People's deputies from non-fractionals, I'm asking you to identify the speaker. And I'd like the national MPs to also identify themselves with the speeches and sign up for the speech. Raise your hand and sign up at the Secretariat. The electronic system doesn't work. Let's get to the show. Heads of factions, who will be the first to speak? Oleg Jaroslavovich! Vitaly Volodymyrovich! From the non-fractionals, Vladimir Litwin. Who will be the leader of the factions? Please, Vitaly Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u3	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to thank those who are joining us now. We know that many deputies have left the Party of Regions. We know that many deputies have now come to Parliament for one very important decision: the most important task now is to stop the bloodshed. This is the most important task facing everyone who has an influence today, every politician who has a responsibility to his country, and this is the most important thing that we have. We must ask today the question: To withdraw troops, we must stop today so that the Ukrainian goes to the Ukrainian, the brother goes to the brother, and this is the result of the work done by today’s authority, which has concentrated all power in its hands and is fully responsible for these actions. People came out because they want reforms because they want them to have perspectives. 2 months ago against corruption, against the law, against the law, against the law that is not in the country. The authorities can't hear them, even though they promised to "hear everyone." And I want to pay attention, you could have solved this conflict very quickly by signing a deal. Then the government of Berkut, a special unit that trained against terrorists, dropped against children, boys and girls who were 17, 18, 19 years old, and then no one took responsibility, but the Minister of Internal Affairs had to step out and clearly declare, "After such actions are taking place in the country, I will resign!" The authorities pretended that nothing was happening. Next is the cleaning of Maidan. Then there's the opposition. The president promised that in 2010, when he was running for office, everyone would be heard. Sadly, to this day the authorities do not hear people. There are millions of Ukrainians who have no prospects. Seven million Ukrainians work abroad because they are unemployed because they cannot feed their families. This opposition, which began today, must be resolved in a peaceful way. Now, when you talk to people, you don't have to explain. Many provocateurs, many of the events that are now taking place when so-called aunts are working with the militia -- a very dangerous mix that can now split the country apart. And I also want to pay attention to the leadership of the state, which should have responded urgently to the call for federalization, the separatist calls, but unfortunately, for today's B.B.I., the prosecution's office, the police are doing a completely different job. I'm sure that today is the key task, we'll then analyze and draw conclusions, but for today, the key task for every Ukrainian is to do everything to stop the bloodshed, that's the first. Secondly, don't do it in the hall, not in any way to warm up to those people who want to split up the country right now, raising questions that aren't of any interest to society at all. The key task, I'm sure, is that together we should simultaneously support those very important issues that are on the order of the day. That's the first one. Secondly, I want to thank the medics. [[Applause]] I want to thank all those who save lives. I understand that many have died on one side or the other. The key question is to stop this, but then we can solve everything else and analyze the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u4	Thank you. Head of the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" Union, Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u5	Dear national deputies, brothers and sisters are Ukrainians. This tragedy, which has now erupted in the Ukrainian state, has no parallels in Ukrainian modern history. Those who call themselves “authority, ” kill their own people, give orders for the destruction of those people whom they would otherwise be required to protect under the Constitution and the laws of the Ukrainian State. And that's why there's a concept like responsibility and an oath. And that's why we here, in the highest legislative body of our nation, should remember that we've given an oath of allegiance to the Ukrainian people, that we should now remember those people who are in pursuit, those people whom the so-called "authority" now issues weapons and directs those weapons against the Ukrainian people. Society, I'm talking to the military, I'm talking to the militia, I'm talking to those who want to be called "right-guards," you don't have the right to serve a separate criminal-oligaric clan that took power, you have to be on the side of the people! And that's why I welcome you, and we all welcome all those who are now standing side by side with us today in the fight against injustice and against it. And I would also like to welcome all the brave MPs from the Party of Regions, the non-fractional MPs who at an extremely responsible time have remembered that there is a concept of "prosecution," there is such a concept as "conscience," there is such a concept as "patriotism," there is such a concept as "responsibility" to his own people, responsibility to his family, responsibility to his own conscience. [[Applause]] And this is very important, society! Because across Ukraine today, many of the representatives of the current so-called "power" express their solidarity with the Ukrainian revolutionary. This enables us to move away from the place, thus enabling us to fulfill our sacred duty. So today, when you and I are adopting the issue of day-to-day order, it is extremely important for us to restore the rule of law first and bring the 2004 Constitution back to the State. This will allow us not even to redistribute power between the various branches of power, this will allow us here in our nation's highest legislative body, assuming responsibility, to immediately suspend the bloodshed that continues in Ukraine. According to recent reports, some seventy people have already been killed in the streets of Kiev, not just in the streets of Kiev. Terrible information about the dead comes from various regions of Ukraine. It is because of the return of the 2004 Constitution that we will be able to resolve the issue of removing all those powerful ministers who today give illegal orders on the use of weapons and on the destruction of the Ukrainian own people. This will enable us to assume the responsibility of assigning to these positions those who give the right orders and to stop the bloodshed. Society! Today, each of us is taking an extremely important step. And this step should fit our conscience, our patriotism, and our sense that we are here with you as state husbands. We made the right decision today, we made the right decision, we're going the right way, we're saving the Ukrainian state with you today that they want to split up. And the Kremlin, which now supports the Yanukovich regime, sees in its dreams that Ukraine is divided. Our sacred duty is to preserve the only constituency independent Ukrainian state without bloodshed and with the law that will have the highest power. This will give us the opportunity to move forward and to be proud that we are a European nation, we do have a future and tomorrow. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u6	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the words of the leader of the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of "The Fatherland" of Yatzenuk. Yes, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u7	Dear brothers and sisters, because we are now not deputies, we are Ukrainian citizens, those who are deeply concerned about the fate of our country. There have never been such tragic events in modern Ukrainian history. Ukraine had various powers: corrupt, professional, but there was never any bloody power in Ukraine. And the fact that people are being shot in the streets today in order to stay in the President's chair, the Prime Minister or any other official vertical is a crime against humanity and against their country. And for crimes, you have to sit down and answer for them. When a young girl was just shot today, who was a volunteer dressed as the Red Cross who pulled the wounded from under the bullets, who's responsible? Personal responsibility lies with the President, his ministers, his government, and those who are no one other than criminals against their own people. I am now specifically addressing those deputies from the Party of Regions and those who are willing to save the country and save the lives of Ukrainians. Come here immediately to the Parliamentary Hall, the fate of a country, a country that can be united, a country that saves millions of lives, a country that has a future. It's up to you, depending on your personal, personal, regional and non-factional position, whether we can close the disgraceful story page, save our Ukrainian state. Let us, in part, thank those non-fractional deputies and those who from the Party of Regions who have overcome fear and who believe in God and believe that the Lord God has born us to do great things to protect each other, to care for each other, to know that the highest value is the value of human life, and we can and must save that value. Dear community, apart from us, it's no one to do it, just nobody. And that's why I once again call upon all the members of all the factions of the entire Ukrainian Parliament -- we have sworn an oath to the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian people, who are now being bullied, the Ukrainian people, who are being shot by snipers, the Ukrainian people who deserve another life, to have our own country, to keep our families safe, and to make our future peaceful and European. Everyone to the Parliamentary Hall! We vote to save Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, right now the apparatus is doing everything possible to restore the work of the Council system, the necessary experts are now trying to get to the Supreme Council, in order to restore the work, so I'm asking the cards not to pull out, it's okay, we're working to get to some positive denominator in this direction. From the non-fractionals, please, did Vladimir Litwin ask? Oh, no? Please, Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, your honor, Ukraine! Indeed, today is a special day. I now wish to address the national deputies from this rostrum who have not yet come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I believe that when we went to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we swore an oath to the people of Ukraine. Our people are now waiting for us to make the necessary decisions and stop the fratricidal war. Today, in the center of Kiev, those who are behind democracy and freedom in Ukraine are killed and those who defend the rule of law in Ukraine are killed. This fratricidal war was started by people who do not understand and realize their responsibility for the process. I am convinced that only the Supreme Council of Ukraine can stop the shedding of blood by its decisions today. My suggestion is that today the Supreme Council, first of all, vote on the decision to expel law enforcement authorities and demilitarize the city center of Kiev. We must vote on the second decision to ban the entry of troops into the city of Kiev. I think everyone has a high responsibility and understanding. There is no need to pressure politicians and MPs who have differing views. We have to take every step back today. In my second decision, I think that we should consider and vote today by Parliament (and that is enough 226) so that the Supreme Council can determine that the Constitutional Court, in considering the changes made to the Constitution in 2004, has exceeded its powers. The Supreme Council’s ruling on the recognition of the exceedance of powers by the Constitutional Court is sufficient to establish that the Constitution is in force in 2004. And by the Second Decision of the Supreme Council, we can oblige the Head of the Supreme Council to return the act of the Constitution to the Supreme Council site in 2004. Next. I am convinced that we have every reason to reform both the leadership of the Supreme Council and the formation of a coalition government, with perhaps all political parties in this coalition government, in order to remove the opposition they impose on us from abroad. I am convinced that there are sniper rifles not fired by Ukrainians, and I am convinced that those who want a brother to go to a brother in Ukraine are doing this, so that Ukraine will split up in Dniper and there will be no strong, only European Ukrainian state. We MPs must do everything we can to make Ukraine European, civilised, powerful. I'm talking to the deputies who are still coming, have the courage, no one will attack you! Come and let us make the decisions of those responsible. Because it's up to us how many more people are going to die. Thank you. [[Applause]] To conclude, I would like to refer to the presidency, to announce the statements made by the MPs who have filed an application for an exit from the faction. Because I've written twice an application to quit the faction of the Party of Regions, it hasn't been read.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u10	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u11	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I am convinced that every person today, especially our parents, our relatives and loved ones, and every national MP has a soul that cries out, a heart broken, and a vision of what is happening in Ukraine. The situation in the country is virtually a failure. In many cases, belief in justice has been killed, belief that there is already a state in Ukraine. And we have such a sad reality when we have the Ukrainian people, and I am convinced that we have the Ukrainian people, but at the same time, we are at great risk today. I come from the fact that we must not convince each other that the difficult situation is that the situation that threatens Ukraine's mortal danger. Obviously, we should begin to think wisely and responsibly and make the decisions we need. I would ask the chairman very much if we could make a legal decision, do everything we can to ensure that we have a vote, not by hand, but by electronic voting. Because then we will be no different from the decisions made on January 16. [[Applause]] I don't think the principle of haste should work here at this point. The next moment. We need to approve the work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide adequate answers to the questions that society has asked. First of all, I suggest, fellow believers, and I appeal to the leaders of the factions who were involved in the negotiating process to inform them what was the meaning of the negotiations, what had been reached with the agreements that remained unresolved, and what was the reason that, in fact, the truce had turned into new tragic events in Ukraine. At the same time, I think we should look at the issues and form a group of deputies who represent not only different political factions, but the entire Supreme Council as a whole, who would act as mediators between the law enforcement agencies of the people who are now on the streets. I think it's unrealistic to give up those calls that we're going to get everyone out of here right now! But fighting and fighting is a direct duty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Decide, hold consultations on how to form a government. At the same time, I would ask, fellow believers, and if you would like, I would insist that we listen to this reasoning: we should not try to solve the human rights issues now, including those of the staff. And the re-scheduling is going to continue because otherwise it's going to be that part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has come together for only one purpose -- to redistribute positions at a time. You have to make a decision, and then life will show. And to the end. It would be very good if we all now understood not only our shared responsibility here, for the state of affairs in Ukraine, and we asked our colleagues that the left side of the hall should also be filled and that together we should make a joint decision that they should have a high power of law, that they should have absolute perfection in order to show an example of how to get out of this difficult, extremely complex situation. Once again, to conclude, I say that the Supreme Council should work. If we don't have a solution, we need to create groups that work here before we can produce a package that's agreed on, not for us, but for society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm about to inform the honourable people's deputies that, in fact, right now, on behalf of the leadership of the European Parliament, the European Union, the leaders of the opposition factions are holding an urgent emergency meeting with the foreign ministers of Germany, Poland and France on this issue. So I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Vitaly Gruszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u13	What? I thought other questions were interesting and interested in registration. Good day, fellow believers, it's a pleasure to meet you, but it's a shame that we're meeting too late, because human sacrifices, mutilated fates, disability. If we had been working since the first day of such a disgraceful event in the Eromaydan race, we could have avoided all the sad consequences, but the fact remains that today the Ukrainian went against the Ukrainian. Why did you leave? He went because for 20 years it was those who worked in this Parliament who adopted the wrong drafts or adopted those bills that allowed for the fine living of other categories of people. And the law was not equal for all, but thanks to the people who came out, who believed that after that the law would be equal for all. How can you do that? This is not a return to the Constitution in 2004 or 36, it's not a change in the presidency of the Supreme Council, it's not a way of forming a majority or a way out of a political party, because today is not a time of color, not an ideology, but of saving Ukraine. And what did a small number of deputies today say about what? That's not 450 deputies. But the main task today is to stop the bloodshed. Today, all those who have united the people on the grounds must stop fighting. Law enforcement doesn't protect families, they protect statehood, no matter who and whose family. And your screams say it's true. And today let every Ukrainian hear that today's task is not color, it's fine work. And the main thing is to make it clear to people that the street is not a solution and it's not a coming to power, it's everybody who needs to understand. Therefore, negotiating groups should be formed, not by opposition leaders, but by a group of deputies, to engage the public organizations that are there, on the forerunner, and to seek solutions together, but the main thing is to stop the bloodshed. And tomorrow we meet all the national deputies in full stock. Nobody shoots anyone because people are waiting for the Constitution to come back, people are waiting for action.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u14	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u15	from the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u16	Mr. Vitalia, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u17	And this is my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u18	Thank you. Here's to Peter Dustenka's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u19	Guys, I'm asking everyone to calm down. Dear friends! Glory to Ukraine! We need to remember. [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, guys, let him go! Friends! Nestor, don't go down there! Guys, let him go!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u20	Dear company, I ask you to remain calm!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u21	I think the main goal was to start the provocation. Let him go with God! Let him go with God from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u22	It's a provocation, distinguished national MPs! Don't act like you're being provoked!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u23	All of it! He's been beaten up by this provoker, my dear friends! I propose to announce a minute of silence for the 70 dead today by Ukrainian patriots and the soldiers of the internal forces and the Berkutu, who are also Ukrainians. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you very much. And our conduct should be worthy of the memory of these Ukrainian heroes. Dear friends, could I have your attention for a moment? For these crimes committed by the Ukrainian authorities. Dear friends, the European Union has just announced its decision by consensus of the 28 member states at the level of Heads of State and Government. The head of the Van Rompay European Council has just reported: against Ukrainian officials who are involved in the death of people involved in mass confrontations, violence on Ukrainian streets, up to two thousand injured, the European Union has imposed emigration, financial and economic sanctions! [[Applause]] And those who hoped that Europe would not find the strength to be the only one to demonstrate that crime would not be punished and criminals would not be brought to justice are absolutely clear messages to all Ukrainians. Dear friends, the whole world is with us. And do we have the right today, as some suggest, to wait until morning when every 10 minutes snipers at the Ukrainian Hotel kill innocent boys and girls who don't even know where the bullet might come from? Today, the Ukrainian people pay such a high price even for their dream of their will. And I have a very specific proposition: from here we, all the responsible national MPs, who care about the fate of Ukraine, who are willing to take responsibility for every Ukrainian life, especially for its protection, will not leave here until we make decisions that will protect the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] And every hour we're going to announce a list of deputies who are hiding from responsibility. And let the country, let their voters help them buy tickets from Cyprus or Maldives in order to get here and in their political position to protect the Ukrainian people from violence, stop the crime, and finally allow political conflicts to be resolved in the parliamentary plane, not in the streets, because they will be sitting in warm chairs, and people will be killed in Ukrainian streets. We, the responsible national deputies who are here today, will not allow this. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u24	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Andrew Illenka. Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! A real civil war began in Ukraine. Someone wants to admit it or not, but it's a fact. And it's probably a situation that, in fact, I misspoke, it's not a civil war, it's a war for independence that wasn't actually 22 years ago, and this 22-year-old state was being built in an incomprehensible way, this nation was being built, it was being built, it was being built, it wasn't being understood for whom it was built. And now the Ukrainian people are fighting this war for the content of the Ukrainian State, so that this is really a state where Ukrainians, where the Ukrainian people are essentially sovereign, and they decide how this nation should live. We're seeing calls here right now, and we're hearing a lot about the need to create some working groups that need to be moved for tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow, you can't solve any questions, you have to wait. Society! How many more corpses do you need to wake someone up? I don't know who, probably, Janukovitch will never wake up, and in other people around him, she won't wake up, they're now choosing between Ceausescu and Caddafi. But in those people who still have this conscience, regardless of party membership, they have only one chance today -- to come here right now. Otherwise, people's eyes. Only today 70 people were killed. 70! These eyes will look into your eyes until your last day if you do not come here today. You don't have a choice right now, you guys. I know that members of the Party of Regions are being threatened. I know they're threatening your families. But believe me, the only chance to save your families is to come here now and publicly state your position. Still, he will destroy all those who waved, those who swayed, and even those who remained faithful to him. He's inadequate. Today's only opportunity is to come here and publicly declare your struggle with dictatorship, regardless, once again, from partying, regardless of anything. Today we must save our nation. If we don't save her today, we're all gonna die. Society! It's a reality. And it is between such a reality that we must choose today. So today I fully support the performance that was before me. We have to get out of here only when we stop, we'll make those decisions that will stop the war. No one else is going to take the option. No one is going to accept the Ukrainian people, no one. History will not forgive us. Then we can either flee this country, or we will be swept away by this nation along with all others. That is why we need to make decisions today that will save our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u26	Thank you. Please. Alexander Valentinovich, please wait. Please, gender equality, after all. Heratchenka, please, very much asked of the woman. You're after Heratchenko, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! I really want to take the floor from those women, deputies of opposition who have worked in the hospitals of Kiev these last few days. First of all, I'd like to thank the honorary colleagues for standing by and applauding and thanking the Ukrainian doctors who are now loyally saving the lives of Ukrainians. [[Applause]] You know, maybe in the European Union, better technology, better equipment, more modern. There are probably nice hospitals with nice toilets, because they are well funded, but such doctors, who only with bandages, with greenery very often, just with painkillers, but with their gold hands and heart, are saving our boys and girls, there is nowhere in the world. Dear doctors, we thank you, and you are doing a great job for Ukraine today, saving our world for its future. And you know, when the girls and I drove here to the Supreme Council, the doctors grabbed our hands and said, "Please make a decision! Do something!" Another story. The average age of the national deputies of this call is 45 years, so do you know that the average age of those parents who come for the bodies of their children are also 45 years old, our peers. And the average age of boys in the morgue -- 23 years old -- is the age of independence. Do we have the right to part now without saving Ukraine?Oh, my God! And those who were born in 1991, and those who are now saving Ukraine's independence like its heroes, we have no right to do that. I want to see my colleagues from the Party of the Regions. Very many of you were secretly on the phone, passing money on medicine, equipment, asking how the wounded were there, whether no one was killed, and we thank you for that, but, dear colleagues, passing the money on is like leaving, and after some bad candle in the church, it doesn't mean saving the soul from God. How do we do that now? Come to the session room and make a decision. From the women of the Supreme Council of Ukraine we address you, and above all, to our colleagues of women: let us make a decision today. I'd like to give you a personal name. There is such a deputy to the Flood. He's in charge. He's here. We're happy that you, if you're here as a rector whose students are here on Maidan, we thank you for that. And we ask you, Mr. Michael, if you're not here, come here because your children are standing there. So let's go to all the independent deputies, let's make a decision. You know, when we came here, we were sitting there at the Supreme Council with black-armed guys, WB soldiers, their average age was 23 years. And they said to us, "They call us every day, they're afraid for us to survive." Our responsibility is now with you to make this decision. And specific suggestions. Mr. Kosulinsky, first: All Ukrainians, wherever they live, have the right to know what is going on in the Supreme Council. That's why we're calling for an immediate broadcast of the "Race" channel. If that doesn't happen, this person who now seems to be leading this channel has to retire immediately, and let an honest journalist come, lead, and broadcast. The other one. Today, we have a decision with you not only to restore the constitutional order and ban arms, but to let these people who want to work in Parliament's leadership work in the President's Office go and work. We have to vote today for the resignation of the speaker and the first vice-speaker who are not speakers and vice-speakers. They are dependent on the Authority, and they have no right to run an independent Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] And then you and I will become as independent people's deputies. Let's do everything we can to get the honor, the dignity, the courage and the ability to make decisions back in this room. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u28	Thank you. Respectable Society!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u29	Yeah, you know, I've been waiting a long time, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u30	But you didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u31	You know, I've been taking notes since the non-faction second year. You are no different from power! Please tell me (people are looking at us), what are we talking about in three hours? Why did the Governing Council’s rostrum, where decisions were to be made, become self - centered again? Our loyalty, what we must do, must be done! Let's not fool society if we don't have 226! Turn on the Rada system, register the cards! If there are no opposition deputies, ask them: Where are your opposition deputies? Partly. Please tell me. There are no deputies, we'll sit one day, two, three. Now let's make a decision that we're going to make to all the people, and we're going to wait for 226 members to get honest in the hall. Stop these statements! Stop saying how grateful we are for all the ladies, look! Just for today, almost 100 dead bodies, what do we say? We say we have 227. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There isn't! But it will! And let's wait. But wait, you don't just have to say the word from the Supreme Council! Let's work on the documents that we'll accept when we have an honest 227 in the Council. And you, Mr. Koshulinsky, I will not ask you whether I can speak or not. I'm an MP from Berdichev. And I have the right, like all deputies, to speak when I want and what I want! And do not lie to people! Then we are no different from that part of Parliament. Sign up with your cards. Show me who's gone. Let's wait a day or two, but work on the decisions that we have to make. Stop talking!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u32	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u33	Mrs. Labunska, I want to tell you, personally, as a member of the Accounting Commission, I want to tell you, I'm asking you very much, we counted. When we first started, the Supreme Council allowed us to register at the workplaces, and before that we counted -- we were 240 people in the room. And then we just opened up an official registration. And so let's still show that a female MP and a man is a state-level, peaceful and responsible attitude. Let me read out the honor of reading Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko's application as we have just received. "Janukovich has long gone beyond the law. But what he's given the command today to conduct a principled sniper fire to strike at peaceful unarmed people is beyond extreme sadistic cruelty that cannot be inherent to man. We cannot look without tears and despair at the simple and honest boys who have risen up to protect Ukraine hiding from sniper bullets behind handmade wooden shields. These shields cannot protect them, they fall, struck by snipers and die in front of the world. They're being killed by a man who thinks he's their president. He kills them in the area of freedom, in the center of the European capital, in cold blood and in peace. There is no such thing as forgiveness or forgiveness. I demand that the opposition never again sit with Yanukovitch at the negotiating table. Each of us who violates this taboo will be associated with Yanukovich in the killings of innocent people. From this moment forward, the only requirement of the people, civil society, opposition, international community and every moral person can be the immediate removal of Yanukovic from office as President of Ukraine and his criminal responsibility for the mass killings of civilians. I ask the leaders of the democratic world to find an immediate way to deal with Yanukovich's case in an international criminal court with the immediate isolation of him from peaceful people as a dangerous beast. Praise to all who have died for Ukraine! Praise all supporters of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Don't step back! The dictator falls from day to day! Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Please let me speak to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u35	Glory to Ukraine! Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Now, in fact, every 20 minutes, snipers in Kiev kill one person. Since the beginning of our opposition, we have lost more than 100 people, peaceful protesters, patriots, who have gone out to protect their country, our land. Friends, the problem is that these people's blood isn't just on Yanukovich, it's not just on executive power. This blood is also on the Supreme Council, because the Supreme Council could make a decision that would stop this opposition. The Supreme Council could restore the Constitution in order to deprive Yanukovich of his dictatorial powers. The Supreme Council could have postponed two months ago the government's resignation -- what the opposition offered. Moreover, fellow believers, we have only hours left to make a decision that can stop blood, blood, friends. Because human life is the most precious thing in this world. And we can do that. What's more, I'm the only one calling the MPs: no hysteria, no friends, no calm, no confidence. We can do this. And we'll do it. The only thing I want to say, my friends, is, right now, everyone understands: The Supreme Council can make the decisions that I will continue to tell you about, the decisions that will change the situation in the country. But we see how many people today have not come to the Supreme Council, that is, people who are clearly taking blood on themselves. And from this day forward, we will not say that the entire Supreme Council is to blame in blood. The blood of the people will be blamed along with Yanukovitch, Zacharychenk, along with other criminals who fired will be blamed by those who will not be on the Supreme Council today. And we are obliged to each of the names of the deputies who today, when the Supreme Council is obliged to work, because, I recall, the Communist Party of Regions has adopted the agenda -- and today, the working day of Parliament, and those who are hiding today, who have not come to Parliament, take responsibility for the blood on themselves. And these names should be known to all Ukrainians. Friends, this is our responsibility. These names should be known by the parents of the slain children and those who are still being beaten because the Supreme Council is gathering votes. The next question, my friends, on our concrete steps that I am obliged to take today — I emphasize — is to make our Supreme Council, our Parliament. Of course, we must decide on the responsibility for the blood of those responsible. We have to abolish acts, ridiculous acts of counter-terrorism, attempts to introduce a military state, another attempt to kill Ukrainians. The Supreme Council must stop, undo these provocations, which have led to a huge number of human casualties, to thousands of wounded, to blood. Next question. It was announced that at three o’clock the Supreme Council was meeting. Everyone knew about it. We don't see the head of the Supreme Council and the first deputy here. This is their responsibility, including theirs. And that is why today Parliament must choose a new leadership that is capable of acting within the limits that today. Having the responsibility that every patriot today must have, including a national MP. So the second question is the re-election of the leadership of the Supreme Council. Next, dear friends. Regardless of who will be the next president of the country, we cannot leave this man with the dictatorial powers that Yanukovic illegally assumed. Therefore, the third issue that the Supreme Council is to adopt today is the restoration of the 2004 Constitution, which was illegally repealed. Restoration of the Constitution! The decision is, it is registered, and we are obliged to vote today. And as of today, we will live within the framework of the Constitution, which has been adopted by Parliament, which has been illegally abolished by the Constitutional Court, along with criminals who have contributed to this, who have given orders to break the law, to violate the Constitution. Next question. Within the framework of the restoration of the Constitution, the Supreme Council is able to decide not only on the resignation of a government that is not in Ukraine today. She is obliged to make decisions on specific ministers who continue to carry out their duties illegally. That is why the Supreme Council is under an immediate obligation to remove from its responsibilities the ex-Minister of Internal Affairs Zacharychenk, who continues to carry out all the duties that continue to give a criminal order that continues to command the killing of people. Next question, dear friends. Recall that one of the demands after the beating of the students was the punishment of those responsible for the beating. The number of perpetrators of beatings, killings, kidnappings is increasing daily. Bullying is not just for those on Maidan, bullying and beating up journalists. I want to ask you, who did the Henprosecutor's office open a criminal case against? Only against the opposition, against the peaceful protesters. No criminal who tortured people who killed people who beat children who beat journalists is punished. Therefore, the next question Parliament today must express its mistrust to the Attorney General of Pschenka. [[Applause]] And another acting minister who has no right to do so. A few hours ago, there was a terrible accident on the way to Kiev. There's been a coup d'état. Military personnel, who received an illegal order to go to Kiev, were killed. In the lives of these people, it is the responsibility of the acting minister of defense to give illegal orders to use the Armed Forces against the civilian population. And that is also the issue that Parliament should consider today. And the last question that we need to consider and make a decision that millions of our citizens are waiting for. Today, Parliament must also set a date for the presidential elections in Ukraine. And just after a list of these issues, after a positive vote for all these issues, we can say that each of us, the national MPs, has fulfilled his duty, stopped the bloodshed, saved the country, the country for which people are dying today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u36	Thank you. National MP Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u37	Oleg Lazko, a radical party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to provoke you for anything, and you all know what's going on in the country right now for citizens who are being advocated by Yanukovich. Today, there is an artificial opposition to the country’s division. Now, what's happening in Ukraine is that people are being killed on both sides by demonstrators from the Berkut side. I'm so suspicious that some third force is doing this to eat, when there's a struggle between the people and the authorities today, they want to eat the people right now. So I want to say to Yanukovic and those third forces who want to split the country up, "It's not going to work out, because today Parliament is meeting to make a decision." I'm proposing clear decisions that we need to make right now, not immediately, but when the MPs arrive, because let's tell people the truth, we're being watched by the whole country, today in the Supreme Council there are actually 225 people's deputies. As soon as I know, 10 or 12 national deputies are due to arrive. I'm talking to those deputies who think they need to go or they don't need to go, and I'm going to answer your questions, "You don't just have to, but you have to be in the room if you're the Ukrainian national deputy. You have to be in the hall." I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of the Fisherman Vladimir Vasilovich, and I am addressing the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Kaletniks, where are you? Where are you? The Supreme Council met for an emergency meeting. I address the Head and the First Deputy. Where are you? Millions of Ukrainian people ask the same question. Mr. Ribak, Comrade Kaletnik, immediately to the Supreme Council Hall and chair the meetings of the Supreme Council. I'm addressing those MPs from the Party of Regions and the Communists who aren't in this room. Where are you, why aren't you in the Supreme Council Hall right now? How long will you hide and avoid making decisions? How much longer will it take for Ukrainian citizens to die so that you can finally understand what you have to do? So all those who aren't in the Supreme Council Hall right now are cowards. They're cowards, they're people who aren't worthy of the name of a national MP, because a national MP has to be with his people. Especially when people are killed. So I'm talking to my colleagues who are still thinking about whether they should be in the room or not. Get to the Supreme Council Hall right now! Now! Mayan's watching us now! Now, thanks to the TV channels, because the "Council" channel doesn't work, others broadcast I know:ICTV, 5 channels, Public Television, etc. Now millions of voters are watching us through these channels. People good, voters who know the contacts of your deputy, immediately contact them and ask them one question: Where are you now, are you in the Supreme Council Hall, or are you somewhere with lovers in the Canary? And if he's not in the hall yet, honourable voters, get your deputy to come to the Supreme Council Hall! Stop! You voted for him, let him work for you now. Why do I insist that all deputies be here? Ladies and gentlemen, you must be aware that if the Supreme Council does not make decisions now, blood will be shed again. There are tens of thousands of people on the scene right now. Police officers were given weapons, firearms, and forced to fire, ordered to shoot people. Today, 60 Ukrainians have died. In the vast majority of them, they have a head and neck trauma, sniper impressions. I mean, if they wanted to be stopped, they shot in the leg so they wouldn't run, somewhere else. They were deliberately shot in the head and in the neck, to the injury. And I want those deputies who don't come to the hall to understand that every death will be on their conscience, every future death. So go to the hall, don't hide, the voters, drag your deputies to the lair to the Supreme Council Hall. And let them not be guided by orders from the President's Administration, not threats from the President's Administration, because people need to understand, our viewers, why are there no deputies in the Chamber? Because they are threatened by the President’s Administration, threatened by their families, their children, but today it is the fate of the country, whether Ukraine or not. Today, there were many suggestions to be made. I believe that the Supreme Council should immediately do so and that it will bring together the entire Hall is the Order of Two Points. First, get all the troops out of Kiev. Second, to ban the use of weapons against Ukrainian citizens, all units: the militia, the army, the security service, the border forces, the tax police, punishments, etc. That is, all military units forbid the use of weapons against civilians and withdraw troops from Kiev. This decree of the Supreme Council is to be adopted immediately. Immediately, accept this decision. Everybody, I'm underlining, Nestor's telling me, and the self-defence squads are also banning the use of weapons. First of all, there is no self-defence in the armed forces, if it allows for votes, let's formulate, prohibit the use of weapons by all paramilitary formations created according to the law and everything else. This will give us a guarantee of non-use of arms, do you hear me or not, Your Honor's fellow MPs? If we don't make this decision now, and there will be casualties again at night, there will be blood again, if we take this decision with you, the police won't dare shoot anyone who won't give the team. And then, I propose the following orders, this first is immediate, the following decisions: unlocking Kiev, firing Zacharychenk and the Attorney General, releasing all political prisoners and rehabilitating, not amnesty of detainees. Yesterday, hundreds of people are being held again, and rehabilitation is being delayed. Next. Assignment of presidential elections to Ukraine, return to the Constitution in 2004, formation of a government of national trust, elections. Elections, if I am now speaking to my fellow deputies, let us give time to the Head of the Supreme Council if, within half an hour, the Head of the Supreme Council does not appear in the Supreme Council, we initiate the question of resigning the Chief of the Supreme Council and his First Deputy as being unable to organize the work of the Supreme Council. And to the end. Now I want to address the Ukrainian citizens who see us, the good people, the Ukrainian brothers and sisters gathered in the hall today who are aware of their responsibility for the fate of the country. I promise you, we won't leave this room until we make those decisions that will stop the bloodshed. I'm absolutely sure if the Supreme Council doesn't make decisions, there will be casualties again, our duty is to stop the bloodshed. This is the main task. And so once again, I appeal to all the deputies, Christ God please, come to the Supreme Council Hall, we vote in favour of banning the use of weapons against citizens and for withdrawing troops, and then we will discuss all the other issues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, stop, please be human. We have enough applications to kill a person every hour. What are you doing? There are no factions in this room today, no parties, no opposition, no power. Today, there is only one goal in this room: to end the trouble that goes to the streets of Ukraine. The only goal is to restore the status of the geopolitical entity to Ukraine, not its object. And to this day, we clearly understand that there is a first problem, and whatever decision you're talking about needs a signature. And this must be the speaker's signature that this speaker won't post. Let's, excuse me, we're going to have to pick a speaker and work normally at the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u40	Thank you. I would like to welcome you to the speech of the People's Deputy of God.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, where are we now, at what stage of the event? A large number of deputies are now arriving. Not easy for everyone, some even in fear of leaving Kiev this morning, but now they are returning to Kiev. I have great confidence that today we will have votes to vote on the decisions we agree on. So first of all, I would now like to propose the creation of a self-titled working group to be members of all opposition factions, of all non-fractional factions, so that we can formulate a day-to-day order under which the votes of support will certainly be cast. Because, you know, some personnel issues have not been discussed yet, so there may not be consensus on them. Questions related to some issues are also not sufficiently addressed. We have to find the answer first, I understand everyone who comes here, they have the answer to the first question, is that the only way to put someone on the table of negotiations is to go back to the Constitution in 2004 and take the powers that have been stolen, in fact, through illegal constitutional change. Yeah? Yes! There's one thing. The second notion that we should certainly remove the Minister of Interior is that we have voices to do so, and that we need to demilitarize Ukraine, not just Kiev. Let's remember what we're doing right now in Hmelnickin, in Cherkas, where they're shooting each other. And once again, we don't have a civil war, we have a huge front against people, a society against power. And it was the authorities who declared war on their own people. That's why she doesn't have a chance to win, because there's never been a chance in history that power has won a nation, that's not happening. It's not a political struggle between individual political parties for power, it's the struggle of the whole society, it's 70 percent to the extreme degree against the power that usurped that power. And the third thing we need to understand is that we've certainly all said here that we can't close meetings. I think we're going to need this working group to work out the order that all deputies are going to do. Because we can't leave the street at all without deputies. Part of it has to be there and we have to develop a mechanism, it could be 10-20 people, as we quickly call them all to make decisions. We each do. Now every half hour we have an MP coming. We must be patient, no one promised quickly. People in the streets are dying right now, standing there for a long time and realizing that power is pressing so hard with its teeth for power that it's hard to lift, but we're going to do it. I'm making this proposal, I'm asking her to support it, to delegate to the factions of the opposition to non-fractional factions, to those MPs who think they might be useful in this working group, to make it, to vote with their hands -- it's perfectly normal. And to get this task force to start working on a day-to-day order that has full consensus and regulatory rules that we're going to use as soon as we have the votes in the room that are needed for a legitimate solution. Thank you. I look forward to supporting that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u42	Thank you. May I have the floor of the people's representative, Bezbach?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u43	Dear People's Deputies, I would very much ask you not to speak the ultimatum. Today, at least in one party, at least in another, at least in the third, one goal today is to stop the bloodshed. That's why I'm here and everyone else in this room came here to solve this problem. Finally, we started listening to each other today for a long year that we worked together. Therefore, in order for many to not shake the air with statements, the number of deaths is understandable, but if we don't solve a single problem with you today -- let's not stop the bloodshed -- the number of deaths will go. Please, let us, distinguished colleagues, talk about our problem on both sides, but we do not need to just talk about the military. You know, you've all seen that there are provocations to what's on the other side. I'm just calling on you: let's do the question today, how do we stop the bloodshed, how do we do it in this very room today, really, without leaving, to solve all the issues. Everything else, when Parliament goes to work, we'll be fine later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u44	Thank you. People's deputies, please try inserting cards, so we might be rolling the system now to see how the system works, if it can already work. May I have the floor of the people's representative, Griesenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! Without exaggeration, what is happening now in Parliament is being watched by the whole world. Not just Majdan, not just our journalists -- everyone's waiting for a solution. Why? Because the country is not ruled by President Yanukovic. The country is not ruled by a government temporarily headed by Arbuzov. Snipers already rule the country. It's unacceptable. In 22 years, Ukraine has never crossed a line beyond blood. In all the conflicts that have just arisen, unlike so many republics of the Soviet Union since the collapse. With different presidents, with different governments. Janukovic crossed that line. Therefore, I support those who have made clear that our decisions should be responsible and legitimate, and we should not act as the authorities did. The press is watching, she should see, or every deputy standing up, and if she's not, she's taking responsibility for the blood, or the "Race" system, and she's working. Let's not lie to each other. I'm addressing two categories of people right now. First, to big business, those who are called oligarchs, those who have representation in the Supreme Council, and their deputies are now missing. Each of you separately, Rinat Ahmedov, Colomoysky, Firtash, Pinchuk and others, spoke publicly and said they were for refusing blood, they were for dialogue, they were for parliamentary resolution of the problem. Let's see your position here. Where are the deputies representing Ahmtov? I want to see them. The country wants to see them. And their position is whether they're blood or they're for peace or they're for peace in the country. So did Furtash and others. Everyone knows everything in this room. And everyone understands that there's a limit to being defined. That's the first one. The other one. As an officer, as former Secretary of Defense, I am now addressing all commanders and military commanders in all military structures -- the Armed Forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence Service, separately the Department of State Security, because, according to me, snipers are from there, with the UDF -- you have the Constitution of Ukraine and the military statutes that are for you here, in this Council, the right not to carry out a criminal order. It's your right, let me put it this way, passive right. You can't act actively -- step aside, report to the table. Your families will not be lost, there will be food for you, and there will be nothing to worry about. We will help the MPs, as we have already helped those who have left. And whoever does what's right and will be on the side not only of disobeying a criminal order, but respects the main and greatest right enshrined in the Constitution, the right to life, and will help people now, believe me, even if you're released, you'll get a higher rank and higher office and you'll be worthy to walk in life after the change of power. This authority has not long been left. But you can't, the first thing you can do is look at the screens, see the blood, and sit at home. Moreover, you have no moral right to give orders to your subjects, after which blood, when killing women, children, is given to all in a row on the street. Snipers won't rule in this country, in our country with you. So make a choice for yourself so that you do not become plagued by your conscience for the rest of your life. The word "officer" is in capital letters, remember this, so it doesn't happen. In all the power structures, be worthy. And the last. Of course, they spoke correctly of returning to the Constitution as a temporary step in 2004, forming a new majority, government and so on, the leadership of the Supreme Council. But, believe me, this is not enough today after the team of Yanukovic killed dozens of people every hour and every minute. Therefore, the Supreme Council should clearly state its position: the requirement for the immediate resignation of Yanukovich from office of President and the announcement of the presidential election for the term. Without that, we can't leave this room. If we have to announce now the decision on the permanent meeting of the Supreme Council, until the oligarchs finally get here, let them also think about their future, and until all the opposition, who is now in Midan or somewhere else, is gathered, so that there is a clear legitimate vote, and all the journalists can confirm it. Then I propose that I sit for three hours, five hours, seven hours until we make a decision. But honestly, responsible, and each person should record it with his own voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u46	Thank you. May I have the floor of the Donya People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u47	In fact, Anatoly Gritsenko in the last paragraph of his speech has already sounded my position, because I do not see another possibility now to stop the bloodshed without the only requirement of the people standing on the barricades. Here most people participated either in Midan’s actions or helped the wounded, or they had already exported the dead. Can you please tell me something about the Constitution? Nobody talks about the Constitution. It is said that there are no more prospects for Ukraine with Yanukovic. Someone believes that only the militias, the Berkuts, and the aunt-bands themselves have killed and killed people for their initiatives? Does anyone believe that this is Sugarcane’s initiative? They'll take Zacharyczenko down, he'll be gone, Janukovic will stay. They'll kill. Each of us here can wait at the entrance. But before that, hundreds and thousands of people on Maidan could become. They could be dead. Without removing Yanukovich from power, there are no other requirements, no other prospects. Yeah. ask them how. You could say that there could be a hard choice -- today, we're going to take the Janukovich withdrawal act, maybe an easy option -- to make decisions about the election. But in any case, hiding like an ostrich, head in the sand, that we're some kind of constitutional act, some change of one or two ministers, we can solve the situation, it's wrong. He will remain in power and will kill again. They'll shoot. Someone didn't see the video of the Berkuts and Aunties killing people with sticks in the Marien Park together? Has anyone seen it? So there's blood in Yanukovich's hands, you have to understand. And we need to realize that the Supreme Council in the amount of 227, 225, you don't think 225 is legitimate? Wait a minute, and someone here wants to betray the people who joined the police, the B.S.A., now in different areas, in western areas in Ukraine, in central Ukrainian areas, did they do it legitimately or not? It's a greater legitimacy, it's a nation's right to defend against Yanukovich-Usurpater. It's legitimacy. And the Supreme Council, as it is now, must declare that this is Parliament. 220 has arrived, so 220 is Parliament. 227, so 227 – Parliament. After that, Janukovic's removal, the creation of the government, and let the government take responsibility for everything, the new government, including the people who believed, who now went not only to the barricades in Kiev, but to each of the district centers and take over the militia, the prosecutor's office, the BSS. These are our people, we have no right to throw them away. We have to take responsibility for them, which means that we form the governing bodies. Scary? It's scary for someone. Is it any less scary for the people on the barricades now under sniper bullets? Hence, the Supreme Council in the number in which it is should dare to take responsibility. After that, Janukovich was removed from power in any way. I'm willing to vote for any decision. The removal of Yanukovich and the creation of its own organs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u48	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u49	Honorable Ukrainians, respected people, above all, the eternal memory of those who perished in street fights, in street opposition to freedom and prosperity for all of us, regardless of political views! Only 67 were officially confirmed for this second, starting 9 a.m. today. Who's there to say that tomorrow we're going to meet up with some sort of commission and we're going to make decisions? Just now, just today and just an open-ended session to make a decision. These decisions must be legitimate. 226 and more people's deputies have to vote with buttons, hands, standing up, we'll decide that, but only 226 physically present deputies can do that. I don't believe we're able to provide that number of deputies. From the first approach, more and more people, representatives of the Party of Regions and Nonfractions, are coming in. I, like, talk to Sergey Tihypak. Sergey Leonidovich, you're the author of the resonant statements yesterday and the other day. Where are you? Come here. And today you've made statements. Take your men, fellow MPs, come here, don't wait till it's 226 and then you'll come. Then it may be too late. Go now! Now and only now is the fate of the country in this room resolved. We need to understand everything -- both the opposition, and the power, that authority, of course, that there's something else that we can understand that only Parliament is the only legitimate part of power that can stop the bloodshed. The President of Ukraine has shown no desire to stop killing Ukrainian citizens. So-called Minister Zacharychenko urges the police to use essentially combat bullets against citizens. Even current Ombudsperson Lutkowska has officially stated that no Ukrainian legislation and no international agreement allows the Ministry of Internal Affairs and any other force to use firearms against citizens now, even if they use the term "suppression of mass disturbances". Mr. Sugar! This responsibility lies with you personally. Putting on the form of a hacki and making a threatening appearance will not remove your responsibility. This is a question that can reach the International Tribunal in The Hague. These are crimes against mankind! Similarly, I appeal to Governor Dobkin, who today directly called for a breach of territorial integrity, and then urged those who have a different view of him and authority to destroy physically. Where in Ukraine were such heads of administrations that called for the destruction of citizens physically? And this is also a statement that goes to an international tribunal in The Hague. These statements, they confirm that only Parliament is the only place where the current deep political and already humanitarian crisis in Ukraine can be resolved peacefully. Moreover, the Security Service should not intimidate us with threatening statements, but rather engage in numerous reports that representatives of a third country are directly involved in the shooting of Ukrainian citizens. And these reports have been confirmed by the sutures of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia, which have been demonstrated on the stage of Maidan today, and by numerous eyewitnesses. If there are Russian snipers working here, if there's a Russian Special Forces here, if there's a Ukrainian Security Service, it should start investigating it, not scaring its people with allegations that we're going to shoot you all, split up from Maidan. If the speaker of the Crimean Parliament of Constantinople says that, using the situation, they are willing to separate themselves and join Russia, then the Ukrainian Security Service should, in fact, address the issue of such statements by such Crimean speakers and not allow these tragic events to be heard immediately, separate the Crimea from Ukraine, which is an integral part of Ukrainian territory. This should be done by the forces if they really speak of loyalty to the oath. Therefore, honourable colleagues, honourable brothers, honourable ones who are not indifferent to what is now, we must act today until the end of the day to involve as many of our opponents as possible in this room even now. We need to make sure that they come here and vote on a few basic decisions. Clearly, the issue of change in the direction of the Supreme Council is a matter of principle. Today's Calendar Plan speaks to the plenary meeting, where's Rybak? We don't know where. So if he doesn't show up, we have to change him. Spit on that Kaletnik, boys, don't mention him, where this commune didn't come or come. The Deputy Head of the Supreme Council is honest and patriotic, and responsible, he is now in charge of the session – Ruslan Kosulinski. We need the head of the Supreme Council. None. We have to do it in a legitimate way, 226 and more. They should then proceed to the vote on the constitutional act. It's a solution that not only makes the most radical in our opposition environment, more specifically, not so much. They may not be good enough, but some who are just thinking of joining the Ukrainian people now, who have been fighting for their freedom for three months and not only their own on the Maidan of Independence. We must legitimately vote this act in 226 votes and more. And the third. The government should only be elected by Parliament, not by the submission of the President, who has lost any confidence and any ethical ability to speak now on behalf of the Ukrainian people, when the number of victims has long since passed by one hundred, if you count it since January 19th. Thus these three decisions, which are crucial, must be made today, and Majdan endures, should not be intimidated by any state of emergency. Mr. Janukovic, you've already entered it, round and round the military, round the snipers with yellow bandages, and now they're still hitting civilians, already around the DAI was trying to cover the roads. Thus, DAI has already taken off its blockposts on its driveways to Kiev and is doing the right thing, removing all the roadblocks in the center of Kiev and doing the right thing. MacKeenko gave the command to run the subway, and he wouldn't let it, so the subwaymen would have left by themselves, because they're sneezes and they're with the people. The peaceful and multimillion - dollar Kiev rides the Main Independence, never afraid, never afraid of anyone. Hundreds of thousands of people by evening will be at the Mayday of Independence. Tell me, when other deputies mention that it is their duty to the people and to make those decisions that will stop the bloodshed, restore justice and take away the power of those who have lost any adequacy, and in pursuit of just keeping their own skin, they continue to shoot their own people. Just today, only an open-ended session and only the principles of decisions that will lead Ukraine to a peaceful development and a new full Ukrainian life. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u50	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Chumak Victor?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u51	Good evening, dear fellows! Victor Chumak, 214th constituency, Dniprovsky district, Kiev. First of all, I would like to express my sympathy to the families who are close to those who today have been taken away by the bad hour that is in Ukraine today. It's a really bad hour, it's a really scary time. The terrible times that are not ours, not Ukrainians, which are a scenario that is brought to us by some kind of black force. But first of all, I want to go to my colleagues -- the deputies in these empty chairs. Just one of your colleagues, Deputy Hanna Herman, said that those MPs who gathered here, they're hiding. They hide, they hide behind the walls of the Supreme Council. You know, it's not hiding behind the walls of the Supreme Council when we can express our thoughts freely. Hiding is an empty chair in this room when people begin to hide from responsibility when people begin to hide from responsibility to their people. I'm asking you, colleagues, those who are sitting here in this half of the hall, come here today, come and make the decisions that the entire Ukrainian people expect of you. These decisions are simple and clear, and these decisions should be those that will stop the violence that will end the bloodshed in Ukraine today. But I understand that many of you did not believe or believe that this national rebellion is a national rebellion. You all said it was for the money you paid. You'll understand that today, in four years, you've built a state that's completely ineffective in today's information world. We're sneezing with you in the hall, and in Donetsk or in Lviv, we're told: "Please." You will realize that everything we do with you knows all of Ukraine. You realize that the state today should be built entirely on other standards. And we're told that on Maidan, your channels, there's some people on Maidan who have a "load of shit." I want to tell you what "screw" is and why people went out on these courses. "Straight" is a thousand-year pension. Nonsense is a two-thousand dollar salary. Nonsense is a militiaman who beats his own citizen. "Straight" when the D.A. keeps pressing on business and everything. It's bullshit when the courts sell their decisions. It's bullshit when the President's castles are built for billions of dollars. That's bullshit! And I've always said that people against this crap went out on the field. And they'll be standing there because they don't have to go back. They will not and will not live in such a state. They want a completely different state! They want a completely different attitude toward themselves! No, they start to say, "Oh, radicals!".. Listen, and if two months people turn to their authority, there's been eight peaceful gatherings on the stage for two months and they say, "Listen to us! Hear us!".. And the authorities pretended that nothing was happening. Any quiet and peaceful people, like the Ukrainians, can be radicalized to such a state that it comes out and will be taken into their hands and their notebooks and everything else. We probably have a last chance today. And this is the last chance in these hours that we're going to have here. We don't have to leave, nobody has to leave! We must wait for all the decisions that we make, and they must be made in a legitimate way, all decisions must be made in a legitimate way, all decisions must be made if not by consensus, and compromise is a huge number of national MPs. What kind of decisions are we going to make? Please, the set is very large — from a small packet to a large one. I'm a big bag. What's a big bag? We need to change the Constitution, we need to consider that if the leadership of the Supreme Council does not appear here, we need to change the leadership of the Supreme Council. We must turn, or not turn, but talk about the appointment of the President's next election, we must talk about what we should do first of all to make a statement about the end of the bloodshed in the country, we must talk about taking all the force forces out of Kiev. Do you realize what happened today? When snipers started working on Maidan, I called the Undersecretary of Internal Affairs and said, "Who is this?" And he says, "I don't know." I don't know! So the force doesn't control what's going on here anymore. So let's get everyone out of here who can cause another disaster. Dear colleagues, I want to say again, and I want to address citizens who know in principle where their deputies live, who know how to reach them, how to approach them, how to approach them, how to gather, citizens, go out to your deputies -- majorityists, writers -- and marry them here, in the Supreme Council Hall, so that they can sit here and make decisions. Get married. You chose them not to leave until there was peace and quiet in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u52	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to the words of the national MP Smittuh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u53	Thank you for being able to say a few words. I don't know how you are, but it's going to be very hard for me to say today, feeling the grief that has happened to our state, there's no way to express all the pain that I personally, I think, and most of you feel what's going on in the country. In Kiev, for the last time, buildings were shot and burned in 1943 when Kiev was freed from the fascist invaders. And you know that in 1991, when Ukraine gained independence, it gained peace. And I don’t know what has happened that is such a sweet power that it is now at the expense of the lives and health of our people. I don't know what you can do to think about dividing Ukraine. I have nowhere to go, my parents, my grandparents, everyone was born and lived in Ukraine, they were defending Ukraine's independence, they were fighting for Ukraine's unity. And I have to understand in this respect that it's up to me what's going on in the country. I don't understand, and I'm talking to my colleagues and the Party of Regions, why we've been silent for three months, why we don't have the ability to listen, to do some kind of program, some kind of action. Why doesn't the Supreme Council work on purpose for three months? Why is the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine hiding today? Why do we have blood? What happened to us? Too big a government? Is there too much desire to have money? We're not taking it with us. How did our children today talk about the war in our country in schools? How did our children not go to school today? We've had so many questions about "why?" Over these three months, or maybe in these previous years of our independent state, that we have neither the right to rest nor the right to part, nor the right to talk about these issues. I wanted to say a lot. My soul hurts. I am addressing Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak while he is still the head of the Supreme Council. I address the First Deputy Igor Kaletnik as a wise young man. I'm talking to all the majors. I'm talking to my colleagues. I do not call for an official to vote for. I'm asking them to come back to the Council so that we can work out a document here that will appease, appease and regulate the state of our country today. I don't want us to share Ukraine. We're different. We can talk differently, we can go to different churches, but we can't allow in any further state like in our own country. Dear friends! Comrades! Who has a conscience, I don't speak, I don't call you to vote for someone, or against someone. Come into the hall, find opportunities. We have to work until the issue is settled. No more tasks. If anyone disagrees, he has a mandate to say that I am not ready. (Applause) But if he's a citizen and a deputy and he hurts for the unity and integrity of our state, if he survives, even if he speaks Russian or other languages, he should be here to express his point of view. He must make his views known. But he cannot stand outside today. Nor should it be expected that the foreign minister of one country or another will settle this issue. We don't have to wait for someone to write us a document. We need to propose concrete actions. And when there's a majority here, and I'm sure it should come together, both me and our colleagues have specific suggestions on these issues. Please, I pray, I pray and the Lord God please - come to the hall, express your point of view, support intelligent decisions, support Ukraine today. Don't let her break into pieces. I think I've been able to reach out to some of my colleagues in my own words, because a lot of people are smart, educated, experienced in the world. Families, children. I don't think they think otherwise. I hope that this will happen today. None of this room has the right to leave until the issue of our state is settled. If it's not settled, we have to set up mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u54	Thank you. May I have the floor of the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u55	Good evening! After November 29, last year, I did not speak from this rostrum, nor during any interviews on television, and so forth. I did not speak because I realized that on November 29, a huge mistake had been made in the state. It seems to me that the vast majority of the problems in the state today are caused, including, perhaps to a large extent, by this mistake. The Agreement with the European Union on the Political Association and the Free Trade Zone was not signed. I'm a long way from thinking that this is an ideal treaty, there's no perfect agreement, but it's opened the way, the way that's clear, predictable and predictable, the way I've been since 1998, by introducing my copyright laws, which are now part of Ukrainian legislation. Not for the pianist, but I'm just passing on my emotions, for example, the Freedom of Movement Act and the free choice of residence in Ukraine, which is my law, the European law, the Anti-Trafficking Act in Ukraine, I introduced it, migration legislation, citizenship and so on. And that's why it seems to me that, despite the fact that very few people are talking about this today, but on November 29, Ukraine had to sign the Treaty with the European Union. That's the first thing I wanted to say. The other one. We have emotions today, because all ordinary and normal people and human deaths, human blood is not statistics. It's grief, it's pain. But I'd like to keep these emotions on the back of our minds. Why do I say that? Today, a lot of people have been talking about the questions that need to be taken into account at this meeting, but frankly, I did not understand what the proposed agenda was. It seems to me that the issues that need to be addressed should be unified, and that would, in fact, if not fully settled the opposition and such a conflict situation, but that would relieve the tension. Because someone's proposing one thing, someone's proposing another, but I think we should propose things that are actually going to be voted by the 226 Ukrainian national deputies who are in this room. Otherwise, any vote, believe me, I don't perform a function of some priest with a known name, but otherwise, if you repeat the hand vote, something else, getting up, and so on, it's going to be the same reaction as this half of the room had a reaction to what it used to be. So my cold mind is now in the background of emotion, and it's telling me that it's like a colleague here said, "220, 210 -- what difference does it make? Let's say we're now the Supreme Council," -- we have to be very careful not to level, I hope, important decisions that can be made here. And the last moment. And it's an important moment. You know, Seneca said that some drugs are worse or more dangerous than the disease itself. I truly believe that today's Ukrainian Constitution, in the way it now works, is no longer accepted by society, and neither do we. So I would ask you, again, to deal with the cold mind so that the drugs that are being offered do no more harm to the disease. What do I mean? You remember very well, there are respected colleagues here, as with the entry into force of these 2004 provisions of the Constitution, a legal basis was laid on which the two leaders of the State, the Prime Minister and the President of Ukraine, were still subjective. But these are subjective moments. There were objective reasons why. The country was in trouble. All the time, there were fighting and even fighting for mutual destruction because it was legally possible. And the situation of countersignals (who knows, I think, someone has read this constitution), and the situation of the double appointment of heads of district and district administrations, when this issue has been manipulated all the time, and the situation where the President could send it to the Constitutional Court and stop any legal act of the Cabinet. So, understanding that we need to get out of the constitutional deadlock in terms of the allocation of powers, I would suggest at the same time (not delaying the time, no, believe me), but at the same time implement other positions that are not in the Constitution that are much more important to Ukrainian people than to deputies and officials in terms of the distribution of powers. For it is only the Caves of the hills. Where is the situation with local self - government? Maybe there's work to do? Where is the situation of local self - government when the community determines how to use it? Where is the situation of financial independence or financial independence? Don't mess with the Federation. I am a firm opponent, and in 2000 I was and today I continue to be. Where is the incentive for the region to work? Just like you made the region, you're gonna spend it. As much as you can use on infrastructure projects, on everything else and so forth. So it seems to me that, in parallel with the fact that we have to deny and balance the relationship between the branches of power, this triangle, we have to bring what really is more important to people: local self-government, financial autonomy, independence and justice for each region, and certainly a guarantee, a real guarantee of human rights and freedoms, which no one has ever seen in the 2004 Constitution, because then it took a third round of elections to balance the situation. I apologize for speaking for a long time, but I think I spoke on the subject. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the initiators of this session, which I have come to with complete consciousness, to decide this individually without groups and statements, because I thought so. I ask you to determine what questions can be really voted on today. And I very much ask that they be voted in a valid manner. Understand me correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear Society, all your suggestions, all your comments, of course, we'll work out, and after the presentations you'll get materials that will be put into the agenda. Stepan Ivanovich is now invited to the floor. Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u57	Glory to Ukraine! You know, dear Ukrainians, dear Ukrainians, because I'm in Maidan today on the 90th day and I want to talk about that there's no political party in the hall today, no political party, no political party, no one who isn't, I hope that it should come, because this morning, when I was supposed to meet and show Midan the Foreign Minister of Poland to Mr. Sikorski, I greeted my brothers. And when I went back in 15 minutes, he was dead. During this period of time, a person is rethinking the value of life. And we're people here today, not MPs, we're people today entrusted by the community to represent people in Parliament, whether it's from Donetsk or Kharkiv, whether we're from the West of Ukraine or Kiev. You know, for every human being, death is coming. And this is the purgatory that a person makes when he asks for a priest to confess both for his personal life and for personal sins. Today, we have representations not only of ourselves but of others. Just now, thanks to Michael Kostuk, I also called our representative, Freedom, who runs the medical service, Hanenko. We took 22 people to the morgue. And there is a 22 - year - old boy, and there is an 18 - year - old boy who, like a legion, lay and was covered with a Ukrainian flag, where our priests used to pray and confess and ask for forgiveness. No money is needed, no capital is needed when human blood is shed today. I'm talking to those who are afraid to come to the hall today. I want to say today an important kind of emotional, maybe my speech that doesn't apply to the MP's mandate. I saw about 70 people die in Maidan. Many of them had to be taken by the hands of our fellow brothers who were in the hall, and they had to be Christian. And here Andrew Cosemiakin just stood up, and I'll give you an example of morality. One man was severely injured in the pursuits. Does he have 15 to live on? He was bleeding for 20 minutes. He wasn't from our camp, not from what they say, on Mayan criminals. We took him on a stretcher, 8 men, and we ran. There was a "quick" where he could stand. In fact, we were injured but slightly weaker. And when our brothers from Maidan say, "Let him go, for he can die." And thank God that man is alive, not from our camp, because he is man. This is the value of human life, which today should give thought to every man who is in the hall and those who listen to us and those who are in the Maidan today. But not those who are shooting at the moment, snipers. And there are, it turns out, not alone at the moment in Maidan. I'll tell you why, I'll tell you why there aren't many members of the Supreme Council who represent other colors today. But there's no color. We had a mother and we had, God forbid, someone who had a father. You know, today you have to say a very important position like that. The position is that we can stay just people, MPs and make our choice in purgatory, and you can talk about those people who are in hell, hell, hell of an immoral behavior in society, hell of wealth and blood money, where they paid the berkutovations for $70,000, the second sherry for $50,000, and the taylors for kaif, who did everything: and they burned the House of Trades. And I was a witness when we were breaking hands here in Mariana Park, we were seven deputies, where we brought out just our citizens 50 people who beat even deputies, but we had to carry out a human mission, not a deputy mission. Today there are people in Ukraine who love Ukraine or who do not. I'm going to go talk to those people who are now called pantyhose, from other countries, Ukrainian tassels, potty. Guys, let's get out of here and get out of here. If today a parliament that does not work for an hour does not solve the issue, tomorrow we will be solved by the streets, a guerrilla war that will begin. I heard the oath of those who served in Afghanistan, here in Maidan, and today one of them died. I heard the oath of the other side, which is more radical, and it is also justified by shed blood. Our main task is to stop the bloodshed on Ukrainian soil in Kiev. We can do this as the legitimate authority of representatives of the west, east, center, south and north of Ukraine. I want to tell you why there aren't many colleagues today. They were frightened by the bells, and their families were frightened by the bells. But what's more, today those brainless fools who seem to be on the run, the great generals, have decided that at 21 hours they'll be cleaning up Maidan. That's what this is about. If there are no MPs, the ones we ask for as people, come, I have a specific offer -- women stay in the hall, all men break into barricades, the deputies of the Supreme Council, and become the first to stand in front of barricades to protect people. The MPs who are represented are the first to become the barricades, four or five today. This will be the position of man. This is the position the community is looking for. This is a position of self-science for each of us, because the most precious things: God and Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Please let me speak to Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Why are we sitting here for two or three hours? Because we are waiting for the national deputies to come here to stop the bloodshed in Ukraine. Time goes by, every minute passes, snipers kill people on the street. We're waiting. Today, I personally saw several snipers on Istituto Street, who were now stationed under a press kiosk and who were aiming toward Maidan. I was personally on the phone today, and I was told not to climb the street of Gruszewski, because there is a team to shoot at injury, at total murder. We're waiting today. Question: Who are we waiting for? Today I want to thank those brave people who are really the people's deputies from the faction of the Party of Regions who came here today, who are in the hall. I want to tell you the following, today is the day and moment of truth: either we all were elected in 2012 are national deputies or a large number of those elected are not national deputies. I want us all to understand that right now, people who come here don't have time to come or think about whether to go, depends on tens, hundreds, and maybe tens of thousands of lives. Because in a matter of hours, the flames of the armed struggle can cover an even greater number of countries than just here on the Main Independence, as far as right here in the center of the capital, in Kiev. I call upon all of you, distinguished national deputies from the faction of the Party of Regions, to come here to the Supreme Council, take responsibility. God has placed great responsibility on you today. You were elected to Parliament. It is up to you now whether people will die in Ukraine or not. I address each of you. I ask that the media announce every five minutes that a national MP from the faction of the Party of Regions is obliged to come to the Supreme Council Hall, obliged to be here, in his workplace. He was obliged because he swore an oath to the people of Ukraine. It is his direct sacred duty to be here tonight, in the Supreme Council. Requesting all television channels that broadcast that five minutes to announce the names of those national deputies from the factions of the Party of Regions and Communists that are not here, reminding them that their sacred duty is to protect people, protect Ukraine, protect the constitutional system of Ukraine. I want all of us to understand that all the deputies who are here are willing to vouch for every member of the Party of the Regions and from the Communist Party, the Communists who should be here, their security, if they come to the Supreme Council, will make all the necessary decisions to stop the bloodshed in Ukraine, in order to keep Ukraine safe, so that we don't lose it, for each of us, for our families, for our children. Honourable deputies from the faction of the Party of the Regions! Come here to Parliament now, we all beg of you, and we urge you, we now have no party deputies, we now have MPs, or nationals, or not nationals. Don't embarrass yourself! Do not dishonor your family, your parents, come to Parliament, stop the bloodshed. It's up to you now. Thank you very much for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u60	May I have the floor of the people's representative, Kupreyczyk?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u61	Irina Kupreyczyk. Fatherland's Party. Dear Ukrainians! I want to address every single one of you today. Today, there is no struggle and civil war among the people. There's a struggle between power, for which it's all about money being robbed and eternal power. On the other hand, there is the Ukrainian people, for whom the main thing is honour and dignity. Today there is no fight between the East and the West, that is not all. Today, we cannot allow our country, our Ukraine, to be divided. On Maidan and here in Kiev, there are both Dnepropetrovska and Harkov and Lviv and East and West Ukraine. Today there is the greatest crime that can be. The first is killing Ukrainians. Ukrainians who came both from Lviv and from Harkov, from Dnepropetrovsk. And Ukrainians, who I mean internal troops, are the children whose mothers have sent to serve Ukraine. And today, two crimes are being committed today: killing the people of our Ukrainians and, on the other hand, wanting to divide our country. And we must all do everything we can today to prevent that. I address you to every Ukrainian: you must think you must do everything you can to preserve human lives and preserve our country, our Ukraine. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u62	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Sich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u63	Praise Jesus Christ! I welcome this, for I hope that with the Lord’s help and will we will resolve the complex situation that exists in our common country and in our common state. Glory to Ukraine! I welcome this, because I hope that we will increase Ukraine's fame, because when in history we have introduced such a greeting, "Glory to Ukraine!"The hero of glory!"then those who introduced clearly knew who to give glory to, who in what struggles, who died in what battles, and how they increased the glory of Ukraine. We also want to increase Ukraine's fame in modern Ukraine in order to build it with a powerful, rich, democratic, social, legal state. That's exactly what I've listed as the kind of state that counts today as the reference state: democratic, social, legal. Today, I would like to ask everyone who is in the room for the maximum tolerance. It is not surprising that we do not respond a little adequately to the wrong formulations, to the not so clearly chosen words, and so forth. We're all tired, we're tired, we're tired, and we're even more tired, and today I've put on my armor for the first time in my life, because not only me, but a lot of deputies have had to go to this meeting under sniper fire. I'm not going to be original, all that sounds today eventually unites all who are in the hall. We're not going to be discussing today our ideologies of nationalism, social democracy, liberalism. About how these ideologies are based on some of the different readings that have to be based on economics, social policy, government, etc. We will have time to discuss when we settle the situation in the State, for if there is no State, there will be nothing to discuss. Clearly, then, there are several principles in these circumstances that should unite us. The first principle, and this has already been discussed, is the principle of humanity. There is nothing more valuable in the world than human life, every human life is the universe, so analyze yourself, you look at the world as if you are the center of this world. That is how everyone in the world viewed those who had died. No office is worthy of human life, no MP, no prime minister, no president, no minister, no speaker. If someone told me today that you give me the deputy's mandate and your brothers Sergey Didic would be alive, I'd give it to you, because I'll win it again, and he won't come back. And like Sergey Didic, my brothers and my countryman today are over a hundred, we've talked about this today, we'll never get them back. But if we're not responsible today, and responsibility is certainly the most important feature of politics, there can be twice as many. Who needs it. And the value of human life is the same as that of those on Maidan who are no longer in the arenas, as well as those who are against them, for each of them has a father, a mother, a wife, a lover. And even if the propagandized "Berkuts" or propaganda, or the paid-up goes and kills, and then he goes to bed himself killed, he has a mother and she gave birth to him, wanting him to be the perfect son, the perfect child, and she will also cry. And all our Ukrainian citizens and our Ukrainian children. That's why we're here, and that's the basic principle today -- the principle of humanism in front of everything. And secondly, I think it's no less important, that's all, that platform on which we have to unite is a platform of state ideologies. All of us are united in making our nation rich, powerful, as I have said, democratic, social and legal, so that not only in this room but every Ukrainian citizen can live in it comfortably. And when I talk about national ideology, it's not something abstract, it's something that will allow each of us, every Ukrainian citizen from child to age, to live a decent life, not to run abroad, looking for a better destiny. And obviously, the third key principle is the principle of assembly, and it doesn't just have the idea that it's very relevant to preserve the unity of the state, not to break it up, because the exacerbation of the situation, the escalation of conflict is what our northeastern neighbour needs most today. And for good reason today, there are compelling suspicions, and even evidence that this neighbor's agency is working in Ukraine, Kiev, and only the conflict is starting to end, and this agency is still setting it on fire. But when I talk about the principle of assembly, it means that if we want to build a normal, decent, civilized, rich, orderly life, not only those who are standing in Midan today, but also those who are allegedly taking action against Maidan today, who do not realize who is still being poisoned by post-Soviet propaganda, who lives (our brothers and sisters) in Lugansk, Donetsk, Kharkiv, without realizing that we are in fact both their rights and their worthy lives. Therefore, respectable colleagues, based on the principles of humanism, the national platform and the congregation, will be responsible to this day and will make decisions that will bring the state out of a difficult, political, economic, and especially spiritual crisis. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Before making the next statement, by your permission, a declaration made in the name of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Rules of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the Atroshenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich, constituency 206. Here's the statement. Here's to Atroshenka Vladislav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to join those words of mourning over our dead fellow citizens who have given their lives for the future of Ukraine. Under no other circumstances in today's situation I wouldn't allow myself the performance I'm planning, it would be a little wider than it would be on time today, but I see that we have this time, and I wanted to say some things honestly. Of course, if two words were to say about the history of the “disease”, the last one in quotes, those events, I'm a little bit disagreeable with my colleague Zarubinski, who said from this rostrum that the beginning of these events was precisely November 30th because of the non-signatories of the Euro-Integration Agreements. Convinced of another, today the main reason that has driven people, millions of people, to rebel against that State, which, for example, is politically tolerant, is disloyal to its citizens. Citizens cannot defend themselves in this corrupt state, citizens must pay bribes at every turn, citizens cannot see their future in this state. And it wouldn't be 30 November, it would be another day or another reason, and it would be a match for people to go out on the ground all over Ukraine under these circumstances and on this very model of state. And then things were going very fast, and there was still time in power to apologize, I think by December 5, there was enough time to get a sense of the situation. It was enough to take three basic steps: to go out in front of people, to apologize for the inadequate use of force on November 30 by the police to those 300 or 400 people who did not interfere, to create no threat, to remove internal affairs while investigating the minister. And to give a clear and clear explanation to society about Ukraine's next steps in the outer political space, the external political vector. And that would be enough. If these events were to continue, it would be a completely different story. The events unfolded in such a way that people were indignant at the failure of authority to respond to these events that took place were bloody. People were looking for answers to that question. There was no answer. Then came the shameful vote of January 16. I mean, I was in the faction of the Party of the Regions, like a lot of those in the faction of the Party of the Regions, and I was basically deceived and deceived by the fact that these were laws that were voted by hands and voted by the hands because there really was a fight, and I understood it so personally that fighting is the reason that people cannot vote with cards, and these laws harmonize our legislation with European. Next came the street of Gruszewski and the first victims. And that was not enough for the authorities to draw conclusions and to express themselves on that point. The last drop was for me personally, and I think for the whole world, for all Ukrainians, it was February 18th, when the authorities used automatic firearms against their people. This is the day on which the Ukrainian authorities lost their legitimacy. I'm sure of it. Today, I think Parliament is that institution, I don't want to repeat it, but it's my speech, it's my opinion, if I were to speak first, I'd say first of all, Parliament is the only institution capable in a legitimate way, and it's definitely legitimate to be cards, and so we don't repeat what happened on January 16. We have to go back to the Constitution in 2004, make a political and legal decision. There can be no immeasurable power in the hands of one man. The next steps are the appointment of a technical government, the replacement of members of the CLTC and the reelections, the steps are clear in a civilized world, and this is the only legitimate way out and the end of the bloodshed. There are some things I wanted to say thesis. First. I believe that we must gather as many votes as possible in the Supreme Council Hall. Not enough 226's legal enough, but these votes should be 240, 250. The more there are, the higher the degree, the higher the sample will be this decision, the higher the degree of legitimacy of this decision will be. To that end, I wanted to say the following words. You know, there's a lot of us to blame in this room. I want to say that in the faction of the Party of Regions there are a lot of thinking, sober thinking, well-weighted people who have gone a certain way of life and who can be talked to. Trust me. And I think that under other circumstances, if we were more tolerant of each other in the hall, there would be more of these people in the hall today. That's my opinion, and that's my conviction. Today, I agree with Derevyant’s words that the presence of a large number of deputies in the hall is very important today. And to do that, I also emphasize the need for the media, the Internet, to pass on the names of the audience every minute. Personally, I would very much like to see Sergei Leonidovich in this room. I have a personal story with Sergey Leonidovich and his absence in the hall personally I can't understand and realize. (Applause) I'd like to say the following. Today, while in Chernigow, I turned to the heads of state institutions with the following words. When I was in the car, I was in contact with the tank crew commander in Desna. He's a professional, Colonel Andry Mikolaiovich. I don't know him. This is my district, I know him, and I've had a lot of meetings with him. He's given me his word that if there's a tech team now, bringing out soldiers, officers outside, he won't carry out this team. Next: about the district managers. I went to the head of the district council, and I think it's a very important thing in central areas. It seems to me that today it would be possible to move away from the question of the grabbing of buildings: district administrations, SBAs, militias, and so on, and in these actions, dozens, hundreds of people could die. It would be enough today in these areas where, in principle, a more weighed and loyal MP Corps in the district councils, a vote in the district councils, a resolution on the loss of legitimacy of the state's active power. I believe that these legal acts today would have a higher political price than the seizure of premises. That's what I'm talking about at least the Chernigian region. And I'd like to say this. Today I received several calls from Russian television studios, Russian radio stations. They didn't expect, they saw my last name on other lists, and they were waiting for other information, and they were certainly surprised by my position, which went straight to them, in Russia. I think tonight we're going to be playing in the Russian field. Rules? I'm done. I'm sorry. I'm sorry! Everything's gonna be fine. Let's be tolerant of each other. Finally, I wanted to turn to the opposition today. Of course, blood is pouring out today. I'm sure we have enough wisdom and courage to stop the bloodshed. Tomorrow will come. I very much ask you not to forget in the following political crutches of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine, to whom we should all be very grateful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u66	Thank you. May I have the floor of the Pharion People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, as soon as I got the call, said they were dropping a flag from a flagpost near the Supreme Council. Please check your head! But I saw in this, unfortunately, a very powerful symbol: what's happening now is the destruction of the Ukrainian state. That's the first one. Second, it is a war declared by Russia and declared to us on a very signistic day and time. The first terrible casualties, beginning with Sandal Nigoyan and ending with my countryman, Yuri Verbicki, were January 22. On January 22, 1918, after the proclamation of the Fourth University of Gruszewski, Russia declared war on us. Almost a hundred years have passed since then. We've changed a lot. This was testified by Majdan. As opposed to you and me, all of us, the opposition and the non-opposition demonstrate a much higher political culture. We're here in the hall, we don't listen to each other even now, we're standing against each other, and sometimes we eat ass, we eat at this time when we should probably hear each other. And that's what we want to show a different political culture. I think we've only got three months to learn from our great people how to build the Ukrainian state, and we've got the highest political master-class from Maidan. And it seems to me that we, especially the opposition politicians, have not yet adopted it. That's the first one. The other one. We're picking each other up on crumbs right now. So thank you for speaking to those colleagues who had recently been, let’s say, set up for me in hard opposition. Thank you for your sincere words and for your openness. If we do not learn to eliminate hypocrisy and pharisaicism from politics, we will all have very powerful trials and trials of death. Today, 12 corpses were brought from the hotel of Ukraine, mostly young boys in the '90s, '92st and '89s. One pensioner was shot here. It's made a huge difference in our lives with you, I think it's changed. Lena Kostenko said, "Nothing that cures death," I see that for some in our society, death is not even a cure. The Lord has given us three fundamental gifts: the first gift is life, the mystery of life, the second mystery is death, which came to us today, and the third gift is love. God forbid she's in this room today winning for those 70 souls who have left today, for those 28 souls who have left yesterday, for those 5 souls who have gone away on January 22 they're looking at our bodies in this room in a way that doesn't feel at all. These people who died showed us the highest. Heroism. Until recently, I thought there was more to it than heroism. Now I realize that's really heroism in Cuba. Let us be worthy of this heroism of those people who today have become bodies because of the thoughtlessness of one man above all, Yanukovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u68	Thank you. I will inform you, by no means, the flag on the spot, all right, the flag hangs over the Supreme Council. It's all right, no one was hitting the flag. Here's to Sergey Soboljeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u69	Dear friends! Respectable citizens! So one of the speakers here said one, in my opinion, absolutely the right thing to do. Janukovic had two elections three months ago: either to sign a treaty with the European Union or to sign a treaty with the devil. I think he's made his choice. For a man who would not sign a covenant with the Devil would never give orders to shoot people, would never give orders to drop the armed forces on humans. That's why, in fact, the choice he made for himself, I'm sure, will never become the choice of our people. Because in this session hall there are neither party members nor party members, and in this room there are either Ukrainian citizens or scum. I can't call these people differently. For on the conscience of everyone who has not come to the session there are those who have perished on both sides. And I don't care who it is, or the 18-year-old guy who stood on the barricades, or the 18-year-old Dwarf who was thrown into these barricades. After all, blood is on Yanukovich's hands and anyone who hasn't come to this session. When I heard from Mr. Tihypak this morning that he and dozens of deputies from the Party of Regions had grown to the point that we had to film the Chief of the Supreme Council right away, turn him over, I thought something had happened to Tihypk. But I don't see him in this session room. And I think on Tihypka, if he doesn't show up here, there's the blood of those hundreds already dead and thousands injured. And Sergey Leonidovich will never wash away his team from this blood unless he shows up here in the hall. Because we need to make literally three decisions. The first decision is, no doubt, the replacement of the Head of the Supreme Council so that all the decisions we make here are legitimate. Second, we need to adopt decisions for those tens of thousands of young people who are now, including staying at the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council, who are begging the deputies, "Make a decision to send us to our locations." This is true of both the guards and the Santa Clauses and the Hersonians, and no matter who. All those who were actually brought into battle at Yanukovich's orders. True, some thought they would shoot and found that they could defend themselves. But I don't care in this case who eventually gets to deal with it. So the key question that we need to come up with is these guys have to go back to their locations. And they can't use weapons by any order. This is the Supreme Council’s decree, which is required for the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence to execute. It fits any Constitution -- old or new. The third decision we have to adopt is the decision to restore the constitutional system in Ukraine. No one will go back to any Constitution. Just as they tried to renegotiate the existing Constitution, claiming that it was no longer in force, it is this session hall that should restore the functioning of the Constitution in 2004. It's not a constitutional change, it's not a substitute, it's a declaration that the country has been living outside the constitutional system for the last four years, and so we have to restore this constitutional system in the country. And another fundamental moment is a moment of morality. Anyone we don't find voting on these issues actually understands: at any point today, tomorrow all that was on the streets, especially today, could continue. That's why it's a choice for each of us. And I think this choice is obvious: it should be a choice in favor of humanity, it should be a choice in favour of no more shooting in the country. That's the main thing. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u70	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Zubko? None. People's deputy Kaplan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Dear people of Ukraine! Today, millions of Ukrainians are observing the performances of national MPs, especially those they have never heard. And each of us today is talking about the Supreme Council being the last barricade of the Ukrainian people, the barricade in the struggle for justice in this country, for the right of people to live, not to exist, to be human, not beings. I am the national deputy of Ukraine, chosen by the simple people of Poltavska, who will not leave this hall until this hall gives birth to decisions that will stop the bloodshed in our country. None of us have the right to delay the return of Ukraine's history to stability, to guarantee the safety of our people, to any of the present and those who, I believe, come here to change its history, have the right to close "the history textbook of Ukraine," to close "the history book of Ukraine" and to put a stop to it. We're going to continue it and start with a capital letter -- a letter of unity of deputies, no matter what color their party flag is, no matter where they choose -- in the East or in the West. I'd like to address the people of Donbas and the South of Ukraine. The regime has betrayed you. You put the President in his presidential chair. The government of Azarov, which is not there, but which de facto is still working and de facto is still guided by this disgrace of the history of the country called Mikola Azarov, "climbs" and all of them -- they all got their time's mandate of your trust. And today, instead of bringing the Donbas mine into order, where there are explosions on government mines, where order is supposed to guide government, they're spending money on aunts. They spend money on fuelling hundreds of buses to take people across their knees to the antimad to pay them for it. They spend money on this, not to save millions of people from death, from diseases in the Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporzik, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv region. They left you alone, they don't pay you with problems, they don't pay you pensions, they don't pay the military, they're all on the treasury accounts that they stole from you today, they're all about arming the army against the Ukrainian people. And today you have to tell them your word, the word of a miner, the word of a metallurgy, the resident of Donbas, and even the idea that they might come back and continue to rule the country. I am very happy, and I am very proud that there is no room in Poltava today in the Poltava region, directly in Poltava. A few hours ago, people came to the city council and from there they took the city's head to a night where he had already said that he was no longer a soldier of Yanukovich, he was no longer a fighting unit, as he had previously said, or a party of regions project. The district governor handed over the State Administration to the People’s Council. And this wave will continue. I'd like to go to the regionals, and you've got a tough choice. One house knows what you're going to have to live through tonight and what choice you're going to make. But I wouldn't want those snipers who, by the way, judging from the media's information, based in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and shooting at the Kabmin club against peaceful protesters, killing people. And these dead men, these corpses, they brought under your houses and showed where your inactivity led to, what you're hiding your head in the sand and you're not here, you're not doing what you're supposed to do -- stop the violence in Ukraine. People are good, remember what year. 2004 It has been 100 years since World War I, and today the President of Ukraine is solving the third one, seeking to conquer the worlds, to set the planet on fire. Ukraine will not be awash in the international environment, it is a great country in which the future is great. And it's those regions that are now hesitant and making decisions that can start writing a new story, getting blood out of their hands, becoming Ukrainians, and proud of their entire lives, which they have left with the status of the people who saved Ukraine from death. Today is a chance for them, and I don't think they're going to join like Klimenko, who just flew abroad again after what the Internet is sounding like today. I am convinced that the rallyers are to go and watch the VIP hall of the airports today and watch where those who betray Ukraine flee, turn them back into the session hall, and go their own night to the apartment and house of everyone without excluding a major region or where they know he lives and come back here to save Ukraine. Today, this is a great opportunity for our nation. I want to thank the MEPs, and I want to thank the international community for being together with the Ukrainian people today, and we have finally awaited the imposition of sanctions against the criminal regime, because, frankly, we have already been abandoned by the hope that there is an international partnership, there are international responsible institutions, and they have given the people of Ukraine their confidence in this. And the last. During these two months, Ukraine has seen everything that can be seen, through everything that can only be survived. I want to address the President of Ukraine. A few weeks ago Kravczuk and Kuchma tried to become mediators and there was no Yushchenk. Why he was not known by the whole country, for he was shameless in this hall by his presence and was not spoken of by any negotiators. Today, Yanukovic has a historic chance to go, to go, and not be the same as Yashchenko, who has been spitting in the back for several years and will continue to spit as much as he will live. Release Ukraine, release it from the regime, and let people finally breathe and exist. Because these anti-maidans will show you flowers, berries will be tanks that will go out for the Ukrainian people when the military takes the position of Maidan. Countdown for a minute, everyone to the Supreme Council Hall to save the country. To save her people and to put her on the paths of prosperity, and those who are surrounded by Yanukovich's robes of his generals must go, to their place in the administration, and to the chair of the President shall be seated by a man who will carry out reforms in Ukraine. And give people the opportunity to live, not exist, to be human, not human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u72	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputies, Mr. Nadjajchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear Ukrainian citizens, today Parliament really knows what to do and should be done immediately to everyone here and now. The first action for all of Ukraine is to stop killing people. The first action, in the name of every Ukrainian citizen, is to stop the violence, disenfranchise and remove all who order the shooting. The first act, and it will be done today in this Parliament, will be voted by the national MPs who are and who will approach the Supreme Council today, in order for the Ukrainian army to likewise receive from our Supreme Council, from Parliament a ban on the use of military forces, forces and weapons against Ukrainian citizens. Our decision today is to adopt and adopt decisions that will stop the use of weapons against humans. The other one. Today, Parliament will have to decide on the responsibility of everyone who works in executive bodies, in public organizations, in medical and nongovernmental bodies, and for each deputy, including. Start a large-scale humanitarian action to save every human being in our Ukraine. Medical care, the immediate delivery of drugs, the restoration of all means of transport. To inform every parent, every parent from Donetsk to Chernigov and to Lviv about their children by the end of the day: where they are, what they are with, and how we help them. Similarly, the third thing that the Supreme Council will do today is that we have no doubt about it. By our decision today, which will necessarily be voted on, we will appeal to the National Security Council. To the Security Council of the United Nations, this is the organization of the Supreme Council's decision today to stop the shooting of people on any street in Ukraine will be brought to the attention of all countries that join the UN Security Council from Vladivostok to Los Angeles. This will mean our firm and clear word to the Ukrainian Parliament on security assurances, including from every UN member country. So we don't panic, we'll be brave and act here and together. We act together, acting in the name of every human being, every Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u74	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputies of Shufric?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u75	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Today is a truly unforgivable, tragic day in the history of modern Ukraine. In the streets of Kiev, tragedy, tragedy, tragedy, and social tragedy have taken place in these moments. People are dying on Kiev’s streets today, and that is unacceptable. Who's to blame? The guilty government? Absolutely. The government is to blame for what happened and could have happened in our country. But are we not guilty of what is happening? Guilty. Some -- because they called, others -- because they didn't pay attention to it, others -- because they thought it was going to happen. Some thought he was in control, turned out he wasn't. So today it is the shared responsibility of all of us. And together, we have this issue to settle. Today, I hear about the purposes of today’s meeting. Of course, the Supreme Council can do much. The authority of the Supreme Council is significant, but I'm paying attention to the legitimacy of any decision, because today the country is suffering from a rather questionable decision of the Constitutional Court of September 30, 2010. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u76	And are we now going to correct in yet another questionable way the mistake that I believe is to be taken by those who voted for it? It was no accident that the judges of the Constitutional Court concealed the names of those who voted in favour. And we have to get to the bottom of this. But this. [[B in m in s a l in]] But it will be later. Now we're talking about the need to balance the branches of power, and that's true. And I want to tell you that my colleagues from the Party of Regions, who today have a deep sympathy for all families of the dead, are willing to do so, but in a legitimate way. Where are they, you ask? They come and you see more and more every hour. Let us be frank and speak the truth to society. Yesterday, all the faction leaders decided that we would not work today and tomorrow, but that decision certainly did not foresee what happened today. Many of our colleagues hundreds of miles from Kiev, and believe me, they won't hide, they'll be in this room making decisions. Today I ask you to refrain from making decisions that can exacerbate the situation inside our room. Because today we need to concentrate 400 votes and more, 447 votes to settle the issue in our country. And we must do so today. I reiterate my deep regret over the loss of our citizens regardless of which side of the barricade they were on. And we're moving into this room to meet each other, we're starting to hear each other, very few people have paid attention to this, but today our fellow Ukrainian national MPs from the Fatherland faction -- colleague Kupreyczyk and our colleague from Dnipropetrovska Bezbach spoke Russian. And our colleagues in Freedom have taken with respect every word spoken from this rostrum. After all, we must come to the conclusion that no matter what language we speak, citizens of Ukraine, regardless of which side of the barricade they are on, are citizens of Ukraine. And really in Lviv and Donetsk, in Ivano-Frankivsk and in Luhansk and in Crimea and in Ternopolska today, people want one thing -- to stop fighting in Kiev, so that people don't die so that people have the right to their civic will. And we have to make sure that Ukraine is the only one we have and that it is strong. And that now depends on us being with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u77	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of the Prince. I won't. People's MP Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we all voted with you a few months ago to honor the 25-year-old withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and the days were near the monument to the Afghans. And I and my friends, who I served with in Afghanistan, was at a documentary that helped make my brothers and your colleague Sergey Kunicin. This film, on April 30, 1984, was actually shot in one battle by our first battalion of 682nd Motorbike Regiment. And we thought that in Afghanistan, when there was a war, in one battle, 67 people were killed -- that was an incredible disaster, that was a tragedy. And today, in Ukraine, in the last three days, how many people have died, like in a battle in Afghanistan in Pansher. I have a question: Who needs some rational and irrational argument to explain that we cannot stop the bloodshed and make the right decisions in Parliament? I have a question: Who is backing Yanukovich today? I realize that there is a family. Because, as in the past, Lazarus Kaganovich in Ukraine is soon to be taxed not only by all humans but by every fruit tree and every pig. Because once Kaganovich did so to destroy the rural population in Ukraine. I understand the interests of the family. Why do others protect Yanukovich? Here's a question. You can see that it is now the turn of the district council to repent of people and to say that they have acted wrongly for four years. Is there not enough conscience and understanding today to stop a more bloody war, with what in Afghanistan? By the way, in Ukraine, I would ask everyone not to use the fatalistic word "civil" war. Fortunately, we don't have a civil war. We have a small-scale war against the Ukrainian people. And we can't stop this little bunch of people. That's why we didn't and didn't have a civil war. Once we understand that, it will be much easier to find a way out of the situation. So my proposals are as follows. There's a first category of issues that I think unites everyone, is to stop the bloodshed and stop the so-called "anti-terrorist" operation. Friends, do you think the anti-terror operation is stopped? No, it's going on. According to the relevant decision, which has been sent here from Russia by a "poison" who temporarily heads the Ukrainian Security Service, because he has only recently arrived from Russia, and I understand that Russia's orders are being followed, he wrote down with his group the whole scheme that, to make sense of it, was sent to me in Zakarpatta by decisions of the courts that have already been prepared on the basis of an anti-terrorist order, that all the leaders of the opposition of the local Midans, all active activists, all journalists will be taken on the basis of decisions of the Kyiv courts that have already been drawn up. Don't we understand that today we have to stop this man, we have to do everything we can to make the so-called "anti-terrorist operation" go back to history, because, well, what could be an anti-terror operation, because the head of the Security Service explained to us how? He says that since terrorists are here, they need to be stopped. These are the terrorists that Yanukovich applauded because they are the same people on Maidan. So today, a bunch of people are struggling with the majority of the population of Ukraine. So the first position. To stop the bloodshed by guaranteeing that there will be no anti-terrorist, extraordinary, other states in Ukraine, and that all the people involved in these decisions should be retired. Second position, friends that you and I have forgotten. While we're having discussions here, we have the famous Supreme Council of Crimea already in Moscow saying that we need to think about how to get out of Russia. I'd like to ask my friend Constantine, who said this in Moscow, to give people money first, because he and his company, the Consul, took money and didn't build houses, return money to the budget, repent to those people, and then think about how to disconnect Crimea from Ukraine. Our second position in Parliament, which we must accept, should be to give a clear warning to those who think how federalism can do, how to break Ukraine apart. This is a clear decision. Crimea is the decision of the Constitutional Court. If they haven't stopped, the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Crimea and the corresponding criminal cases against those people who stand in the position of so-called separatist moods. This is the second category of questions. The third category is related to organizational matters. I think that we should bring it into line today when we say that every national MP should act as the electorate requires, I believe that we must, among other things, decide that we should be able to create parliamentary groups and allow the majority MPs who are currently trapped in the Faction Party system to form their own MPs, protect the majority groups and act with us. This restructuring of Parliament, I think, will give us the opportunity for a transitional period, because I think that the mission remains that way -- to stop the bloodshed, to prevent the country from breaking up and to ensure a solution that will lead to the presidential elections in the early days. Until early presidential elections, we must ensure that the economy is maintained, we must provide tools for honest democratic elections, and we must do everything we can to make sure that people are convinced that not only will the reintroduction take place in the near future, but there will be a new power that will return Ukraine not only to a peaceful but to the Ukrainian, European regime. And maybe the last thing you won't like is, you know, for the last ten years, I've been in opposition to Kuchma, I've been in opposition to Yanukovich, and I haven't entered any transitional and temporary governments, and I haven't maneuvered along with the party general. But I am far from political snobbery today, so that we can manifest it here. I think we should give everyone the right to act. And if Lord MacKeenko did the deed today, we must say he's a real man today, because in today's situation, headed by Kiev, he did the right thing. And if more people who have not yet come to the Supreme Council and want to get there, we have to support them, because today, these real men depend enough. Therefore, glory belongs to those who are capable of doing things. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Here's to Sergio Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u80	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the first thing people expect from us today is unity for us to demonstrate unity in this room. So I call upon all the politicians who have spoken and who will speak from this rostrum. Because unity can be destroyed by the word worse than a bullet. So everyone has some insults, someone has a lack of acceptance. Today, all the images have to be put in the same place and beyond. And that's why everyone has to show Ukraine, to show the Ukrainian citizens that we're the only ones here, that we want peace here on this earth. And that depends on: a) whether we're going to make a new democratic majority now, that's 226 or more, or b) if we don't create this democratic majority, but we're going to make a decision that people expect of us and there will be no more killings on the streets, not just Kiev, but on all the streets of our country. Second, what do people expect from us? It's a momentary decision-making, immediate decision-making. Because every minute, every hour of not making decisions is new killings, new violence, new anti-terrorist operations. Therefore, those who call upon the conscience of those who have not come to this room have no conscience; for them money and positions are more important to them than human life, than Ukraine. So they have their constituents, they know where they have public reception? They know what to tell their majority deputies why they're not here with the people? Why aren't they with you? Because I'm sure that unity is what I said first in the audience. And these people who came into the room have a civic position, they want to make a difference. I can tell these people are you, they're patriots who really want peace in this country. And the third. What do people expect from us? That's what, when we come out of the rostrum, we could each have hundreds of suggestions. I can tell you ten now. I ask, if the leaders of the opposition factions have made any decisions, let's not be upset about making these decisions, because there are more. Because there are more opposition deputies in factions. And that's why we're making decisions here. The fact that more opposition deputies were admitted. And that's why we have to obey now because this majority of the opposition deputies are accepting. And the question is to put together every decision that each of the leaders of the opposition factions of 226 votes and more. So when I finish my speech, I want one. Consider the first, the second, and the third. Now let's show the country unity, quick decisions, and unite this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u81	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u82	Sergei Sobolev just came up to me and stressed the news that you can all read because you're reading the iPad, the news that Yanukovic has agreed to the next term's election. Two hundred and twenty-six votes are enough for the election. Obviously there are international arrangements, but we can assign them in this room. Just as Donald Tusk, Prime Minister of Poland, said, he agreed, and they all spoke together about the urgent appointment of a technical government and the speediest changes to the Constitution. But we need to keep in mind the other. We now have 100 dead people, even more. We have events all over Ukraine where people take control of regional organizations, administrations, militias, we have titties, we have bullying and murder, and we have a situation that no one is in control of. I won't be here long. I really hope that these international consultations that have come to an end, as already reported by foreign prime ministers on their own television channels, will be announced to us by opposition leaders who have met with these representatives, and here will be a part of the majority, and we will vote on all of this. I have that hope. But we will not forget the hundreds of people who have died; we have no right to do so. We need to calm the situation immediately. And I want to make the next point. If we don't have 226 votes here, we still have to act. Notice, please, that all people in the regions and areas -- where they are re-electing power -- are stressing that they recognize the People's Council. What is the People’s Council? We created it. In fact, it's decorative, I'm sorry, it's the formation where we've gone from the democratic factions to the democratic factions, but there's no other action. So it seems to me that if we're not in this room immediately to gather 226 votes so that, according to the current legislation, we can appoint elections and take the situation under control, and create a government here, if that's not the case, then we should urgently give life to this People's Council, invite those national MPs who came out of the Party of Regions. Most of the time, start working in it, create a government of national trust, invite professionals. Because right now, I'm sorry, we need to do something about the snipers that are shooting. It takes someone to leave the military experienced here, General Kuzmuk, we have Cosmiakin, we have Jarem, there are many professional military personnel in various parts of this room, and we have taken steps to stop it. So I think we really have the last time today that we have to take the situation under control. Otherwise, if we don't become effective managers for the country to get it out of this military crisis and start building it either in the form of a working Supreme Council or in the form of a finally working People's Council, it will be very late tomorrow. Well, we're waiting for these colleagues right now, and then I think we're going to have to go back, if it doesn't work out here, to the effective restoration of the People's Council, which people in the regions have recognized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Here's to Igor Miroshnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u84	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! You know how hard it is for me to talk today because today is my birthday. Today is my 38th year, and this is one of the most tragic, certainly, days in the history of Ukraine, and this is certainly the most tragic day of my life. Because no death is worth celebrating and talking about except human lives. It is very important to talk about life today, and it is vital that we do not forget one simple thing, and it is said that we should abstain. Our maintenance, constant maintenance, and constant conversation led to bloodshed. 18 numbers were the last day of maintenance, when, unfortunately, our worst predictions came true and people began to die, not by one, but by tens and hundreds. These people are modern heroes, we've talked about missing heroes in the history of Ukraine, they're, their thousands, they're standing on Maidan, they're not worth money. And I want to say that this is an example of the unique self-organization of the nation, there are hundreds of thousands of Chinese, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, each of them making their contribution, their contribution to not being poor, and they remember one principle: "better death is worthy of glory than a disgraced life." There, people take their wheels, they take their food, they take their drugs, they support the heroes who die on the barricades, they die not for money, they die not for glory, they die for conscience, and they die for honor. And today we have to do everything we can to stop the bloodshed, today we have to do everything we can to stop the disgrace and stop their deaths, unnecessary deaths. People have come out against shame, and they are fighting today, so as not to be disgraced, they are willing to die. And once again, I emphasize, to every member of the Party of Regions, first of all, Communists, you know how we treat communists and their ideology. Today, the issue of human life must unite all Ukrainians, all responsible Ukrainians. Anyone who does not come to Parliament today and vote in favour of all necessary decisions will be personally responsible, along with Yanukovic, for every life that has been destroyed. I want to say an extremely important thing. Today, I have seen the faces of inner - military children, whom many actually consider to be enemies. Sad to say, today the authorities have also abandoned those who are in the pursuits of internal forces on the leading barricades of the role of “harmed meat. ” Similarly, she abandoned those Ukrainians who struggle for their dignity and glory. I looked into the eyes of those children whom today some 60 authorities had cast in the Ukrainian House and in the Yellow Palace. In order to break them up, rallyers who want revenge for their brothers were killed to kill them. They did so on purpose because human life is worthless to them. Do you want to be responsible for these crimes? No, it's not. These people are alive, and I want to calm down all the mothers and parents of those children who are serving in the internal forces today. Because there are no animals on Maidan, there are no terrorists on Maidan. There is a Ukrainian nation in Maydan, and this nation wants to live, and it will live in a free country. Today all these children, the Internal Forces, are fed, they are given medical care. Unlike what the authorities did to Midan’s activists when she killed them and then allowed them to die in car accidents without allowing national MPs or friends of theirs or even medical personnel. We realize today that we have no civil war, we have no conflict today between East and West, we have no opposition today to Russian-speaking, Ukrainian-speaking. We have no opposition to religion today. There's Janukovic's Family, his close and awe-inspiring, who are willing to bang and kill everything in their path, and there's the Ukrainian people. And today is a very important thing to do. We have to take sides with this Ukrainian people, regardless of party membership. Today, we have to realize, by the way, that with respect to those hares, the irony of fate is another. I got a call today from my christian who lives in Kharkiv, and I haven't seen her in a long time, and she's grown up, and she says, "In the middle of those guys who got held up by rallyers who saved their lives, so there's no bloodshed between Ukrainians, my boy, how he feels, I'm worried about him. He just went to the army, took him there, he doesn't want to stand for anyone." She's from Kharkiv, she hates Yanukovich just as much as she disrespects those bandits, Gepp and Dop, who said that in order to preserve the gold toilet, the Ukrainians could be destroyed. And we're going to do everything we can to make sure that every soldier of the internal forces who didn't throw in the rallyers didn't shoot the rallyers, but was used by this bandit power as a cannon meat, not become a cannon meat during the brotherly war and revenge and went home. I want to address every relevant law enforcement commander today. I was just talking to one of them, and he said to me, "vote and do everything you can to stop us from being used on the barricades." Today the flower of the nation is killed, today the Ukrainians who are 22-23 years old are the peers of Independence. Today, not only is Janukovic aimed at each one of them, but it is the heart of everyone who dies in Maidan and the streets of Ukrainian cities that Putin is targeting, Russia is kissing, and it is aimed at the heart of Ukraine. And if you care about the fate of the country you live in, you have to do everything you can to stop this gang. You must do all you can to ensure that no more life will be devoted to the altar of what will necessarily be a victory, for our fight is doomed to victory! No one can win the war against the people. No one will win the war against the people. And we want the price that's already paid to stop the bloodshed, enough to stop it, enough to stop it, enough to take the troops away, stop the use of weapons, solve the problems with those sniper bastards, some of which are considered by entertainment to be gunfire in peaceful rallyers, and target something in the left eye, or something in the right eye, trying to pinpoint a feather like that with a bullet-sniper to show what will happen to the Ukrainians who will live in the new roadie empire, they won't be able to do that. Today, I think there are a lot of very important issues that this House should approve, but first of all, to vote for a decision that, I hope, even those who say, "You need to abstain" will not hold back and get rid of their impotence, the decision to immediately cease the use of any weapons on the streets. And the second determination, immediate withdrawal, return of all forces, internal forces, Berkut, all without exception, to the place of permanent deployment where they are. They want to go home, they tell everyone. We have to give them this chance. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is the only legitimate government body trusted by millions of Ukrainians. For the regionals, someone also voted, and they also want us to stop the bloodshed. A decree that will allow every commander of the internal forces, Berkutu, other special forces to take their soldiers back to a permanent location. A decree that will allow anyone to give legitimate reasons to those who give them illegal orders, to show the Supreme Council’s decrees and not use weapons will save millions of lives. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to the heroes who died for Ukraine's independence!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u85	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Laupin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u86	Dear Ukrainians, I want to remind you that today is not just a war, today is a dignity revolution. It's a rebellion of worthy and free people against usurpers of power. That's where it all started. That is exactly what we need to decide to come to some peaceful solution. What is the reason? And where did this revolution start? In fact, the root cause was created in this room when you and I did not find any political forces with you in 2010 to oppose the illegal usurpation of power by Yanukovich. When the Constitutional Court announced its decision, then, in 2010, in this room, we had to stop this decision and not allow the introduction of an unknown text of the Constitution, which was never, in fact, legitimately approved by the Supreme Council. We have to get back to this room. Otherwise, the problem cannot be solved. There was a lot of discussion here about the legitimate way, the creation of a commission, everything else, in fact all of this then, first of all, we have to say that the Constitution never changed, four years of being deceived and forced to live in an illegally unconstitutional way. We just have to state the fact that we're going back to a valid constitution, it's never lost its validity. Then you can create working groups and commissions, improve the Constitution, move through reforms, which, by the way, requires a free people on the Maidan. Did they have another way of protecting their rights? Unfortunately, it was in this very room that we left them no other way. When the Supreme Council allowed Yanukovich his silent consent, its own. Her inaction allowed her to concentrate absolute power and allow him to direct this power to create outright corruption, and a system was set up in the country when there was no other way to protect her citizens' rights, except to go out and fight for her rights. And that's not why it's a question of whether it's a revolution or not? It was a question of when is this revolution going to start? Of course, the tragic loss of people, we have hundreds of deaths today, but the usurpers of power were first tortured, then individually killed, then killed by hundreds, but not stopped. They did not stop the Ukrainians and will never stop them. The usurpers of power today act as invaders of the country. And countries are doing the opposite, the whole resistance, and it's going to do it. Why do we need to make decisions today? But because the depraved Yanukovic and his depraved power ministers are capable of dropping troops as occupying authorities on their people at any time. But this will not stop Ukraine. The motto is, "Will or death!" In the last days, there has been, not a crossover, but a very personal sense. And those who sacrificed their lives made that slogan. They chose death for the will of their people. And these are heroic acts. That is why today we need to make decisions and not leave this room, that their lives have not been wasted, that they have not offered in vain, however tragic this may be. We must realize their purpose for which they have made this sacrifice. We have to change the country, we have to destroy this usurpatory power, we have to destroy this monopoly power and create a real democratic Ukraine. How can we do this? In fact, everyone knows. In fact, it just wasn't political will, and honestly tell yourself, honorable or disrespectful MPs of most people who aren't here today, you just didn't have the guts to do it. Because in order for regional MPs in this room not to think, in fact, no one's ever been interested in it, they were just doing the tasks that Janukovic, the usurper of power, gave them. And that was almost four years ago. Therefore, we are simply obliged to correct this situation and to adopt decisions that will really be taken as decisions that lead to a country’s recovery from the crisis. And I'm sure we can do that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Dear Society, I'm going to ask about 9:30, I hope we can get to the vote now, so I'm asking who's in the towers, in the buffet, to ask my friends at 9:30 to be in the session room. By that time, I hope that by that time we will have a full number of people who will want to carry out the tasks that society has set for them today. As I speak, I invite the national deputy Kanovts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u88	I have a heartache, a heartache, I have to say. Today, a citizen named Yanukovic declared the day of mourning, the day of mourning in Ukraine. He said it was cynical yesterday. And on that day nearly a hundred persons were destroyed. One and a half years ago, he said, "No drop of blood is worthy of power." Think of the cynical words of the first official in the country! No drop of blood, no announcement of the day of mourning, and no total extermination by snipers in Midan. I'm in pain because yesterday I left my district of the late Andrew Korczak. I'm in pain because he died today from Hodor's Tochin Roman. He is now fighting for the life of Pekush Yuri, who was removed from his spleen and kidney, as well as under threat of arm amputation, two bullet wounds. In the Tocin of Romana, the sphere hit high. And that's what Zacharychenko says today that doesn't apply the fighting units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I would now like to turn from this rostrum not to Yanukovich nor to Zacharychenk, nor to those who will support this criminal leader of the state. I want to address the leaders of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, who have been very supportive of Yanukovic for many years. Where's your voice today?Oh, my God! Where is your condemnation of the actions of your beloved president?Oh, my God! I want to talk to all the judges who put our boys in jail for two months. You're shutting down the courts today. Do you think we've forgotten your names?Oh, my God! Why do you remain silent today and do not condemn the operation of this regime? I want to address those heads of administration that haven't retired yet. What are you waiting for? I'm retired, all of you! The ministers of this government who is now in charge of Arbusov! Do you think you're going to be ministers?Oh, my God! I'm retired, all of you! Get out! This authority should lie on the blades, only then will he realize that there is no operator on anyone. And finally. In support of the demands that we have to vote today, this is demilitarization, this is the return to the 2004 Constitution, this is the replacement of the Fishbuck, this is the interim election of the guarantor, and I want us to be sure that today, if we succeed, we also appoint the Prime Minister from the opposition. But we must now appoint a minister of internal affairs, a minister of defense, who is to replace Zacharychenk and Lebedev today, and surely the Attorney General of Pshonka! These are the key decisions that we need to make today. And the last. I want to speak to colleagues from the Party of Regions who are not yet in this session hall, as well as their mothers, women and children! If they lack the spirit to come to this hall, tell them that the stain that they place on their reputation, named, will come to light on their generations. Push them into the decision to be immediately in this session hall and so that we have really, as colleague Atroshenko said, a decision of a high trial -- a large number of nationalists in this room. [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u89	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u90	The Grand Charity! The weight of the word that flows from this rostrum, and the thoughts that we speak, and the truth that is behind the words that we say, and whether we believe those words that we speak ourselves. It's a very important thing, because we're often populist about all these things, we're saying a lot of different words, and there's absolutely nothing to be done about them. This phone is breaking up today, like most of your phones, because many young people who have been waiting since the third hour of the day, what will be the decision of the Supreme Council, and everyone expects it to be, and everyone who calls is hoping that this decision will be positive, that all of these things that we have in Ukraine today will stop, and that the authority of that leadership that we have in Ukraine today will stop. And we realize that it's going to take some time to think about it again. How many deaths, how many more people have to die in order for this consciousness to come? There's a big question mark. Each of us in this room has already made a fortune in the vast majority of us. We are very wise people. We feel sorry for our family but for our own. Because the death that happens in someone else's family, it's kind of past our hearts, it's the least of our worries. And maybe today's guy who died in 1994, I think there's still going to be money to send that guy home because he wasn't standing on Maidan for money. And we understand that many of the things that touch our heart and our soul must pass through every row that is in this room. And what, we're going to address those people right now: MPs, Ukrainian citizens, who just don't exist right now? Do they hear us saying this right now? Hardly. Where are those leaders of the financial groups of our Ukrainians who have large groups of deputies who are boasting that they have 40 people there, 30, even more people who can influence politics? Where are they? Why do these things happen all the time beyond the closure of our souls? We're talking to you here today, expressing the feelings that I was looking at right now, just outside -- two minutes ago, the Omonites came from there, right there at the metal fence, sitting there, because they're also tired of this terrible test of the soul. Where do we get this feeling from each other and understand to say taboo is stop. If there is no political will in the leader of our nation, and he can do it in 15 minutes if only the Lord God and the church to which he goes will make him a great intellectual messenger to understand that it is necessary to do it, what must be done with a concession, and what kind of language you speak, because these are other things. Dear friends, we will probably be waiting a long time for that half of the hall that may come today, rather than the only thing that will not come. And we're going to say a huge number of words here, and we're going to blame them, and we're going to say -- there's some people there to reward them with words that's not worth anything. We're worth waiting for that moment and understanding, let's have a little bit of it, so we need to figure out a way to get those twelve dozen deputies, but they just want to live in our country, so they can figure out a way to get out of this situation. Because we are held hostage by a large number of people who care about our country. So we're not going to wait, and the whole Ukrainian people on this indifference, how do we do that? I've only been an MP for a year, a lot of things I don't know how to do. But here the vast majority of those who are and who can boast of calling on one, the other, the third, the fourth, and the fifth may need to do so in order to take this authority in a different way, gentlemen. Let's just shake our strong heads and realize that not only do we have to wait for the bullet, but we have to wait for our heart to respond to each other's memories, remember that. Dear friends! Let's now wait for our leaders of the three factions, which are also those deputies who came from the Party of Regions and let's think about another option -- the choice that will give life different powers. We feel like we're being dragged into some kind of pipe of big negotiations. Time's not waiting, Majdan's not waiting. Try to spend six hours on Maidan right now. Try to spend six hours on the barricade or even on that side behind the omonics, and we'll feel this kind of energy and this kind of experience, and it'll come to our minds that we understand what we need to do, gentlemen. We don't have time to wait. Time, we do not know how much Jehovah God has given us to live in this world and what we will dream of. Today, more than 50 charter flights abroad are said to have flown from Julian. It's more likely that it was flown by simple miners from Donetsk or simple workers from the region of Ivano-Frankow, who took their families. It's more like they're flying! Well, let them rest there. And we know they're not here. But they can't be here physically, because planes don't come back very quickly. Gentlemen, everyone in Europe is hiding, and Europe has not yet announced a list of those to whom all the benefits are taken and who will lose their savings abroad and so on. So far we don't have this data, and we realize it's another ossification. Because neither Europe nor America need our Ukrainian people. We need ourselves, gentlemen. And until we realize with these heads that we have before us a living man whom the Lord God has given to live in this world, we have no right to take life from him. No one has the right to take his life! Because that cartridge or that bullet that was on television today, we have seen, in the hands of officers or common people, that sniper is working against us. Gentlemen, I urge everyone not to withdraw from the Supreme Council today until we find a way out of this situation. But we're running out of time, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u91	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to the words of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u92	Glory to Ukraine! Dear MPs, colleagues! Indeed, it is difficult to speak today at a time when Ukraine is in the fire, when fighting is taking place on the streets of Ukraine that war has come to the Ukrainian home. Long before, we had heard this expression “although there was no war. ” And it was as if we had declared independence without blood. But, society, I want to say that in Ukraine today, where the national symbol is the flag of Ukraine is recognized as a revolutionary flag, or practically a flag that fights for the will of the state. If the National Hymn is recognized as a song of opposition, it says that Ukraine is in occupation. It's about society that for 23 years of independence, we don't have a de facto Ukrainian state. Unfortunately, there is a criminal-oligarchy clan here led by Yanukovic, who has declared war on the Ukrainian people, who have given the command to kill and shoot Ukrainians who want to change this state, who want to protect their families, who want to choose justice and the right to live in their God-given state, on their God-given land. I find it hard to speak because yesterday my friend Alexander Capinos of the Kremenec died, and it's literally been weeks since he didn't live to be 30 years old, and he's a patriot who has devoted his life to fighting and defending Ukrainian interests, which is never for himself, but always for people. And last year, he was starving for 16 days to protest the approval of regional languages and the destruction of Ukrainian language. Today, another of my countrymen, Ustum Hudduk, was 20 years old, and in front of his father, it is practical. And it was very hard to look into my father's eyes yesterday, who came from Alexander, but what struck me most was that the blood in my veins had practically settled when my father said, "How's the playground, how's the situation on the ground?" And I thought to myself, God, how unbreakable we are, the Ukrainian people, that the moment our children die, the most precious thing that is, and they experience and think how they are now fighting Ukraine further for the will of their country. To the extent that these are dedicated people of ideas, someone today said that we had gained independence free of charge. No, it's not. We're getting it right now. We have become a nation that has been sprinkled with blood. And this nation is consecrated by this holy blood of those patriots who today pour it on Ukrainian soil, who are fighting for us to live in another country, we live in another country, where there will be no "breath of the done", where there will be no "breath of the mentua", where there will be no selling judges, where there will be no hope of a decent life in their country, where there will be no driving around the world, wandering in search of a better destiny to feed their families and loved ones. And I believe that what is happening today will never go to waste. This death will not be forgotten, and all the criminals and the executioners who gave instructions to kill Ukrainians will be punished. And especially these moral freaks who fled the session hall today, who here adopted dictatorial laws that pushed the Ukrainian people into rebellion, will also be responsible. They will have no place on this earth. They will have no place in this state. And the Kings who fled to Moscow, and the Koleschenkas, and Bondarenkos, all of this nonsense that brought our state into that situation today, must bear responsibility, as should the executioners who ordered the shooting of Ukrainian citizens. But we have to understand, society, unfortunately, is now using the Moscow scenario, the Kremlin scenario, in Ukraine. When action began, on Maydan today, when Ukrainians were killed, information was available on the Internet from Russian sites that the rallyers captured the Supreme Council. It was Putin's plan that would give him carte blanche to apply in Ukraine the state of emergency and the introduction of troops and the same, as it were, peacekeeping forces on the side of the Russian Federation. These were planned actions. We have to understand that yesterday, and today, their own politicians, they say one thing: so to speak, there is a war against Russia. They're afraid of it. They fear that the Russian people, by the way, who, along with the Ukrainians, are fighting here in Maidan, and have been killed today from the Kaliningrad region. Because in the hotel "Ukraine" we saw those boys and citizens of Russia who are now fighting alongside the Ukrainians to overcome the banditry. But they believe that we too will help the Russian people to overthrow this Kremlin of bandits under Putin’s leadership. Because the victory of Maidan, the victory of Ukraine will give the Russians the same strength and faith to overcome those bandits who are now in control and abuse. But I am convinced that our nation will not lose, the Ukrainian people are unbreakable. We are now standing and fighting on barricades all over Ukraine, not just in Kiev. We see what's happening in Central and Eastern Ukraine, how Ukrainians are rising with faith that they're going to change this state. And I am convinced that the Lord God will give us the strength to overcome those invaders. And I understand that there are enough MPs in parliament who have yet to come to vote in favour of these necessary laws: banning the use of force on the streets of Ukraine now, we have to disband criminal groups like Berkut, we have to go back to the legal constitution of 2004. And I'm sure we'll do it, or we won't leave. Glory to Ukraine! And glory to all the heroes who are now fighting for the Ukrainian state!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u93	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Dubella. Is there a Dubyl? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u94	Empathy and low yields to all parents and families who lost their sons, patriots and inner-military children. Empathy and low insinuation. Dear brothers and sisters, I address everyone today, first of all, to this half of the hall, you must come today to stop this bloodshed. How can we be home with you? I've seen Yuri Miroshnick, Nestor Schufrich, Vadim Novinski -- you also think you're Orthodox people, I'm talking to you today, you don't need to talk about someone abroad, how someone can be abroad at a time when people are dying, come and become like everyone else on the front line, stand between the people of the internal forces and the Berkut and do everything you can to stop this bloodshed. And you're talking about someone who's abroad and someone can't make it here today. Or let's make a decision, leave the hall today, and come tomorrow or tomorrow and make a decision. How can this be said when families today wait for their parents, their children?Oh, my God! Youths who have died, how will they live these days if they are buried? When we leave this hall today, how can we look them in the eye? I am addressing all of you Orthodox people: come to the hall, and let us join together and stop this bloodshed. And we're not going anywhere from the hall today. I know that there are a lot of good people in this part of the room who are hurting for Ukraine, for the Ukrainian people who have been helping Midan since the first few days, helping our patriots in Ukraine with drugs, warm things, food and much more. I know they feel the same way. We also guarantee you that we will be. Today you have stood up for the Ukrainian people and a great deal of gratitude to all the majors, all the national MPs from the Party of Regions who came here today to defend the Ukrainian people in order to stop the bloodshed. We will do the same tomorrow to protect you and your families. And I invite all of you to come to the hall so that we can stop the bloodshed with you. I thank today the famous Montenegrin land, where patriots also gathered in the city of Priluki from all regions: Srebrenica, Varna, Visnian, Talaiewsk, and Chernigow, where thousands of people gathered from all over Chernig region to support the Ukrainian people. Today, the head of the Archduke of Montenegro wrote a statement that he was coming out of the ranks of the Party of Regions. Today, First Deputy Governor Sagittarius Mikola Ivanovich said that he condemns the actions of power and that he is not on the side of authority, that he is on the side of the Ukrainian people. Today, the head of the U.S.A. came out and said that he would not carry out criminal orders. I'm talking to them all. Abandon the ranks of the Party of Regions! Protect the Ukrainian people. You all swore, you all said, "I swear to the Ukrainian people!" You, when you receive rewards, you also say, "I swear to the Ukrainian people!" Not to the president, not to the officials, not to the deputies, but to the Ukrainian people. As we walked into the hall today, we were approached by soldiers of the inner armies, the Berkuta, they literally begged us to make all the decisions in the hall today to stop the bloodshed. They're just as tired. They were begging us! So let's do everything we can to stop the bloodshed. I address the commanders, the generals, the Commander of the internal forces. It is equally up to you today to stop the bloodshed -- both of us and you -- to stand up and protect the Ukrainian people, to tell the authorities that we are not going to execute them, that we are going to become a guarantee shield between you, and that we are not going to give those orders. I thank everyone who's in the hall today. And let's not leave here with you until we make all the decisions to protect our Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u95	Thank you. For short information, please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I have just spoken to Vladimir Vladimirovich, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. He became aware of information about his departure on charter flights from Ukraine. He's in Kiev, he is. But listen to me, to the end, sit down! What a man you are, Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u97	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u98	Vladimir Vasilovich is in Kiev. Sadly, he was ill in the afternoon. Now he's consulting with the doctors, and we have to respect our speaker, and he's doing everything he can to let him come here. So let us wish the Head of the Supreme Council health, and I hope that we will see him today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u99	Yes, please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u100	Oleg Lazko. I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u101	Oleg! Thank you. Oleg Lazko. Please. You will have your word, Mr. Oleg. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Oleg, thank you. Please, Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, respected Ukrainian citizens, have buried a 20 - year - old young man who was standing in the center of Kiev in the district of Kozeleck, Kosachevec. The wife stayed with a two - year - old child. After lunch today, three more coffins were brought to Montenegro. I think I'm addressing all colleagues, the members of the Party of Regions, I'm addressing the members of the Communist Party of Ukraine, as the head of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, you and we should, as the people who declare that we stand up for people's position, social rights, we should first ask questions about people's lives. If you are with the people, come to the Supreme Council today and make decisions that will not kill this people. If you're not coming, whether you're coming or not, we're socialists, we're initiating in the political environment the formation of the left-wing political forces that stand for the protection of the people and for the protection of democracy. The political forces that unite against dictatorship. If you have a dictatorship, don't go back to the Supreme Council. You will go along with the dictatorship and with the history of Ukraine. Next. I want to speak to Sergio Leonidovich Tihypak personally from this rostrum. Once, when I told you that I would not vote in favour of the economic part of the Association Agreement with the European Union, because I argued that we should vote only politically, you told me that I wanted my children to live in a European country. Sergey Leonidovich, I am addressing you, come here, there is not enough voice for people in Ukraine to live without being killed. Dear colleagues, this refers to everyone who's not in the hall right now. I address you, Mr. Kosulinsky, first name all majors, deputies who come to the county every time. Before them now, in their districts, the coffins have gone. So if you don't go to the Supreme Council, you have the responsibility of going there. If we had gathered two more days ago, when we had our first address with our non-fractional Vladimir Litvina, we would not have these dozens of innocently lost lives. And right now it's not about who's going to betray who, who's going to betray who, who's going to talk or betray Janukovich, or who else is going to talk or betray our conscience, whether we're going to betray our people, or whether we're going to betray our story at all. It is said that England, Britain, is impossible for a dictator, for there are not enough villains to support this dictatorship. Honorable national MPs who are not in the session room, do not be the villains who support the dictatorship to kill people. And those on Midian and those without weapons against them. The other day, as soon as I started storming Midan as a national deputy, I went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and I wasn't missed in passing, and the next guy said that the minister didn't have time to meet me as a national deputy when my constituents were killed. Not a respectable minister of the interior! You sent them there, you didn't come to the front, you hid in the office, and you sat there and watched the kids die. When Tsushko was the minister of internal affairs and there was a political crisis, he personally went to the Attorney General's Office if he gave the team a cabinet. Tens or hundreds of people would have died. He personally went to the prosecutor’s office, entered himself, and with his authority stopped the bloodshed. If it were you, Mr. Zacharynko, sir, there was at least Mogillov's "real mint," he'd be standing in the front and he'd understand, if people were to die, we'd have to take each other out and negotiate with the others. I went through 2004 and 2005 and the "Ukraine Without Couchma" action, and then we went as national MPs, if we were fishing, in the first sherenght, and we were talking to law enforcement. And the lawkeepers were talking to us, and we were talking about how we were doing the stock. What happened two days ago at the Supreme Council is part of the guilt and the decision that was made by the opposition leaders that led people to the Supreme Council. But the minister of the interior does not need to transfer responsibility to the people who have come. A wise decision from a law enforcement officer: If you are in a conflict zone, you can do anything to keep people from dying. I believe that today we must, once again, insist that if we do not have consensus, and it will be found, we will find consensus on one thing: a decision to remove all paramilitary units from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, from the Ministry of Defence from the centre of the city, full demilitarization. And of course, the second decision is that we have to make decisions that will address political conflict not only in the center, but also in places. I think there should be a group of negotiators from the Supreme Council who will meet with the President and produce a mechanism that will ensure today that the regional governance mechanism is developed. The best way to do that is to place the responsibilities of the heads of administration on the heads of the district councils. For all the heads of the district councils are chosen, live and have authority and trust in all the regions. This will immediately remove the conflict between the center and Kiev. And we're going to stop the chaos that's coming. Today I am addressing once again, honourable national deputies, return to the session room, this matter of conscience, personal conscience. And you and your children, if you don't, won't forgive you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear society, please, with the "Council" suss, I see, it's starting to work, it's going to work, let's check it out. I'm asking you to put up some cards so we can check the work of the "Race" system. Please invite everyone, we're about to start voting. I'm asking you to check the quality of the "Council" system. Please invite everyone to the session room. [[B in m in s a l in]] While you're inviting your company to join the session room, I'm going to announce in accordance with part 3 of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which states that the parties of the region have resigned: Razwadowski, Shapovalov, Bondar, Bobov, Blagodir, Rudzkowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u104	Thank you. Please come to the rostrum if you can go to the rostrum. Please turn on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I'd like to provide information. It's just that my application hasn't been read right now, because I've filed it for registration on Monday's 17th count for exit from the faction of "regions."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Respectable Society! Respectable Society! We still have a few people who signed up for the performance. I'm going to ask, as briefly as possible, for the sake that we're about to go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask for the word of the People's Deputy Stojko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. I got it. National deputy Stojko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u107	Dear friends, dear Ukrainians! Glory to Ukraine! Indeed, now is an exciting and responsible moment for each and every one of us. We've heard a lot of MPs and I want to say briefly, but what I think. Because it was all about the cold mind. I would like to say about the warm heart that is beating at each one of us, the love of Ukraine, our land, the Ukrainian nation, our people. And when people die today on the side of the barricade, where we stand three places already, and in front of us are the Berkutites, the inner armies, we need to understand that one person who is responsible in Ukraine for the deaths of nearly a hundred people is Yanukovich, who is a bad person to me personally and who I do not have the moral right to call president. Because this person should not simply step away from authority, but he must be accountable to us, to the Ukrainian people. And I believe that the time will come when this happens, I believe that those judges who have changed the state system in Ukraine will respond and, in fact, have brought about a coup d'état that is still working at the Constitutional Court today. I believe that an underprivileged minister will answer to the Ukrainians, who is now serving Zacharychenko, the minister, and I believe that the Minister of Defense will also be responsible, who has allowed himself, without the decision of any committee of ours, or the Council of Security, to introduce troops into the Kiev. And along the way, we saw many of the deaths of those young men, the paratroopers, who were on their way to Kiev. And as Alexander Kuzmuk said, in his reign, when he was secretary of defense for six years, not so many people died when they were laid down today, power***, in one day. Therefore, we do not have the right to retreat today. We have to step in and protect people. We must do everything we can to ensure that Ukraine does not burn in the fire so that Ukraine can live freely, happily, in the European family of nations. We have to do everything we can to ensure that there are no such bastards, district leaders who say we have to kill people. And that's Dobkin and he's like him. So, my friends, let's all vote and change the situation in the country as one really cool mind and a hot heart. Let us vote in such a way that this dictator, who today solved the massacre in Ukraine, would not simply leave his post but would kneel before the Ukrainians and answer for all the thefts. It's Yanukovich. Shame on him! And glory to those heroes who today at the barricades protect our will with you, the will of Ukraine! Praise the heroes! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u108	Thank you. May I have the floor of the national deputy Sabia. May I have your message, please? Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! A mass rally had just ended in Berdjansk, where sisters, the mother of the military section of Berdjansk, had been sent here to Kiev for slaughter. They accepted an appeal to the President and so-called acting minister of the interior of Zacharychenk demanding that he return immediately to part 76 of 77, because one was tragically killed and 26 were wounded. They don't blame people. They directly accuse Janukovich and Minister Zacharychenk of throwing their sons, the brothers, into battle. They demand that they be returned immediately to Berdjansk, and I think that these are the words that all mothers, wives, are saying about all the soldiers who are now in Kiev. We must do our utmost to make sure that they go to their homes and never raise their weapons against the people again. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u110	Dear, indeed, national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u111	Ukrainian people! Thank you, Ukrainian heroes! Praise be to those who have fallen at the hands of usurpers! I am convinced that these people who died for honour, for dignity, for justice in Ukraine, we have to assign the posthumous title of heroes of Ukraine because they are real heroes! [[Applause]] These are real heroes who really gave their lives for Ukraine, not the heroes who bought these titles at the President's Administration. We are obliged to make changes to the State Budget and, at the expense of the funds currently available to sustain the President of Ukraine, to take full custody of the family of all these Ukrainian heroes for life. [[Applause]] In these days, the beastly flower of the Ukrainian nation was killed, and in these days it appears that the flower of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union was killed. Among them: Sergey Didic, Mountain District Organization; Basil Moses, Cyverskow City Organization; Alexander Kapinos, Cremenac District Organization; Parachuk Yuri, Kharkiv City Organization. Active adherents: Oleg Uskevich of Drogobich, John Tur. Two of my assistants were killed today. Sergey Bondarczuk, head of the Starocostinian City Organization, and Mikola Dziavulski, member of the Shepetov City Committee of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Two other assistants were seriously injured: Anatoly Panchuk and Yuri Kravchuk. They were injured while taking the bodies of their slain companions. But the sniper, despite the fact that they were taking the bodies, continued to shoot. There are seven majeure deputies in the Supreme Council, five of them are here in the session hall. There are no two so far. This is Alexander Gerega, who is more known in town as Alexander Matkov, and this is Sergey Burjak. I demand of them, and I have the right to do what they blasphemously promised the people to come to the Supreme Council and protect the Ukrainians at last. Because they told it by giving money and various gifts to people. The blood of those men, the blood of all those who have died from the Hmelnichinas today, will be on their heads if they do not immediately appear in the Supreme Council to decide the fate of Ukraine. We are the most responsible today, we must do everything we can to make Ukraine finally social and national justice. We were under the impression that someone wasn't in control here today, but it was the authorities who lost control, because they were knocking at her, and she didn't hear, but she didn't hear, and she didn't open it. This power led to the death of many Ukrainians four years later. And this power must go. And we have to make sure of that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u112	We already have enough. I see the "Race" system is working. A very important decision, an incredibly important decision to make today. (Noise in the hall) Society, I'm with your permission, given the emergency situation that is in the state today, I'm going to allow myself now to read from the voice the ruling of the Supreme Council, which the whole country is waiting for. I ask you to be very careful. Invite all the people into the session room. I'm asking everyone to come into the session room. Respectable Society! Once again, I urge everyone to come to the session room! We have a very difficult situation in the country. Today, no one can afford to relax. Respectable Society! I'm asking you to include the "Race" system. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Respectable Society! Please be careful! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to include the "Race" system. [[21:59:08]] Registered -239 [[Applause]] There's a check-in in the hall. [[Applause]] Respectable Society! Thank you. There are 239 national deputies registered in the hall. A decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on condemning the use of violence that led to the death of Ukrainian civilians. Expressing the sovereign will of the Ukrainian people, seeking to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, taking into account the numerous facts of the killing of Ukrainian citizens, other crimes against humanity on the part of law enforcement officials, the withdrawal of mass protests during December 2013, in February 2014, determining the need for unconditional compliance with the Ukrainian Constitution. Taking steps to reduce tensions in society and prevent further escalation of the conflict in Ukraine by identifying an anti-terrorist operation as the beginning of preparations for which the Ukrainian Security Service and the anti-terrorist centre decided on 19 February 2014 was not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. Considering that according to article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations, only the protection of Ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity has been imposed, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations cannot be used to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens or to bring down the constitutional system, to remove the authorities or to impede their activities. In view of paragraph 31 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which decision to carry out an extraordinary situation in Ukraine or in certain areas of Ukraine is made exclusively by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the absence of grounds for the introduction of an extraordinary situation in Ukraine is decided by the Supreme Council: First, to condemn unequivocally the use of violence that led to the death of Ukrainian citizens, torture, torture, and other crimes against humanity. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and other paramilitary formations immediately cease the use of force, and prohibit the use of any weapons and special means against Ukrainian citizens. Third. Banning an anti-terrorist operation announced by the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian anti-terrorist centre on 19 February 2014 in Ukraine or in its separate areas. Four. Ban the heads, commanders of associations and divisions, officials, the primary and military forces of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office and other authorities of the Ukraine's local self-government, citizens' associations, institutions and organizations from the anti-terrorist operation as provided for in the anti-terrorist operation plan, such as those that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's laws and aimed at illegal restrictions on citizens' rights and freedoms. Fifth. With a view to implementing paragraphs 1-4 of this Order, the Ukrainian Security Service will immediately cancel its decision to conduct an anti-terrorist operation in Ukraine, announced by the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorist Centre on 19 February 2014. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine immediately ceases to block the blockade by law enforcement officials on transport communications, other streets, areas, alleys, boulevards in Kiev, and other localities in Ukraine. Ensure that law enforcement officials return to their permanent locations. Ban the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence from using the Ukrainian Armed Forces in an anti-terrorist operation, which was announced by the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Anti-Terrorist Centre on February 19, 2014. It is also urgent to ensure the return of military personnel to their permanent locations. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will cancel the decision to restrict the entry of vehicles into the city of Kiev. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. I'm asking for your attention. Please turn on Volodymira Litwin's microphone. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, if we come out of what we had, at least, 240 votes, let's hear it. We discussed these proposals, and tomorrow we agreed on this project. So I'd like to ask, let's now consolidate us. It's about the name of the decision. The word "peaceful" is deleted and simply "citizens of Ukraine" because the text is followed by Ukrainian citizens. Next. In the paragraph, "Considering the numerous facts." "Kills, injuries and injuries of Ukrainian citizens, other acts that fall under crimes against humanity." [[Applause]] Next, clear the text and continue it with the words: "in the course of mass protests during December – February 13, 2014." The next paragraph is to be completed as follows: ".acknowledgment of the need for unconditional compliance (the word "appointments" thrown out) The Constitutions of Ukraine (the word "life" replace urgent measures to reduce social tension and prevent further escalation of civil (add word) conflict in Ukraine." The following paragraph reads: "Acknowledgment of the intent to conduct the Anti-Terrorism Operation by the Ukrainian Security Service and the Anti-Terrorism Centre of Ukraine on 19 February 2014 that do not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine." That's how it's gonna be. Next, the following paragraph: "According to article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations, solely the tasks of defending Ukraine, protecting its sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity, and the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations (the word 'nobody' to throw out, there is no such word) cannot be used to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens (whom everything else is deleted because it is not clear what the overthrow of the constitutional system is referred to)." I'd like some backup. Next paragraph. Add only a word in this way: "Having in mind the position of article 85, part one, of the Constitution of Ukraine, in which the final decision (and further text) on the introduction of a state of emergency (all of this remains). Because the final decision for the Supreme Council, you know the President's decree. Please be supportive. In the operative part, the first paragraph is set out in the following wording: "Certainly condemn all acts of violence that have led to the death, injury and injury of Ukrainian citizens, their torture and torture, which refer to the most serious crimes." In the second paragraph, honourable colleagues, add the words "other paramilitary formations cease immediately and prevent further use of force." Period. And as a single sentence to say, "prohibit the use of any kind of weapon and illicit special measures against Ukrainian citizens." The third point remains virtually unchanged: instead of "or" "or" "or". "All over Ukraine or in separate areas of Ukraine." The fourth point is unchanged. Fifth paragraph: 5.1, 5.2 — no change. But in 5.2, write this phrase: "to ensure the reasonable availability of the protection of state institutions and to take steps to return a special warehouse that is not active in public order to the locations of the location." And plus, honourable colleagues, another point is proposed: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the authorities of the State, provide all necessary practical assistance to the families of the victims, the victims and the wounded, to provide them with, for the living, the necessary medical treatment." Also, my fellow believers, I would ask that we make a judgmental decision. The following entry is added: “to oblige the authorities of the State and local self-government within five days of the date on which this decision takes effect to bring all their decisions into conformity with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine”. A separate point: "The Ukrainian security services and the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office shall immediately investigate all the facts of the appeals and activities of individuals and formations that threaten the territorial integrity of the Ukrainian State. On the results and actions of this issue, inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 11, 2014." Another point: "The Ukrainian Attorney General's Office conducts a full investigation into the deaths, injuries, injuries and violence committed against participants in the events of November 30, 2013. Twice a month to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the progress of such investigations until their completion." And lastly, the closing point of this content: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine assumes responsibility for resolving civil conflict, calls on the national MPs to participate in plenary meetings, to make comprehensive decisions to stop the illegal development of events and to resolve the opposition by peaceful means. I think it's okay. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Society, I understand that we have many thoughts. I understand, respectable company. (Noise in the hall) Stop. I'm asking for your attention. I want to point out that we're going to put this decision in the agenda first. I ask you to vote in favour of setting this decision in order of day. Entry into the order of the day's decree that we have announced. Dear Society, I ask you to vote for the inclusion of the Supreme Council's ruling. Please vote. Please include the "Council" system. Please vote. [[22:11:25]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Society, we are voting on this decree as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] . On the basis of this, we are voting for a Supreme Council decree condemning the use of violence that has led to the death of Ukrainian civilians. I'd like everyone to vote by standing by, considering. We're voting on the ground. Please vote on the basis. [[22:12:31]] For 233 [[Flushing]] I beg your pardon, Olega Tuggniboka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u115	Oleg Tuggnibok, Freedom faction. Society, we support all the amendments proposed by the national MP, Vladimir Litwin, and I ask for one more piece of legislation. Attention! Don't scream, please. One more point. The authorities of the pre-trial investigation should appeal to the court for immediate release from custody of all detained protesters (some day?) 19-20 and stop criminal persecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u116	Thank you. Here's to Peter Dustenka's word. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u117	From the 17th.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u118	Dear friends, Vladimir Mikhailovich and I also agreed, in the text of the amendments announced by Vladimir Mikhailovich, it sounded "December 2013 – February 2014". You all remember that the peace action began on November 21st, and on November 30th on the Kiev Maidan was the first blood, so instead of the "December" amendment "November 2013". Is there no objection? Second position. I call on everyone to really support Lithuania's revisions and the general text of the ruling. The only position that we have is a very negative experience when we say in a determination that not all parts of the internal forces are returning to places of permanent deployment, but only those that provide reasonable sufficient capacity. My friends, we must ensure that the inner forces, the Berkut, return to their permanent locations. If we have to do something about it, we'll make a decision and we'll make sure it's safe. Is there any objection? Please be supportive. The rest of the positions, please put and support Lithuania's amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we can now show the country that we can solve this terrible battle without blood, and this will be the first step we should take. We support the repairs that are bugged. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Without "reasonable adequacy," all the other amendments can be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u122	Before I do, except for "murder" and no "date." Yeah? All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u123	All of it. Dear Society, please take your seats, we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u124	Except for "murders." Except for "kills" and except "give," right?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u125	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u126	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u127	Copy that. All of it. Dear society, I ask you to be careful, we are now doing a preemptive action, we can stop the murder. [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable Society, Dear Friends! I'm betting on the vote on the draft "Prohibition of the Use of Violence, which has led to the death of Ukrainian civilians", as amended by the People's Deputy of Lithuania, taking into account the rights of Peter Prashenko and the rights of Oleg Tuggnibok, except for those he has declared. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please vote by standing. [[B in m in s a l in]] In general. [[22:17:48]] For 236
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u128	Respectable Society! Announcing a Break Ten minutes. Please announce recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u129	Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, please be seated in our seats. We are continuing the work of our plenary meeting. For information. I ask you to turn on the microphone to the national deputy Viacheslav Kirilenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u130	Respectable Ukrainians and respected colleagues. Right now, as we vote for peace in the country and for the muscle to leave position and return to base, just, practically at the moment when we voted. In Chercas in a dam, on his way out of Cherkasa, Cherkassky "Berkut" shot peaceful protestors in virtually one dead person, at least 10 wounded. So far, this is the peace of Berkut. Criminals. Parliament must decide the issue today as a matter of utmost importance. We urge the Berkut of Cherkas, those who have a conscience and a conscience to lay down arms to cross over to the people. And those who criminally shoot people will be punished. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u131	Thank you. For information, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u132	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues! You know, I thought today I was where these guys were, already the dead, come on, I think there's an opportunity to go to MacKeenk, let's say we could even prepare a document like this, if there's support for most of these guys in the Supreme Council and bury them next to the Ashold grave, provided the parents agree. It would be very normal, we would have a place like this, you know, the gravity of a certain historical one of ours, the Crutches and this revolution of ours. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Respectable Society! I'm proposing the continuity of our meeting today. I ask you to vote in favour. Dear Society, I understand that not everyone has yet reached the session hall, please stop. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite everyone to the session room. The Secretariat, please invite people to the session room. Respectable Society! In accordance with article 60, part 3, the Head of the Supreme Council has received statements of withdrawal from the faction of the Party of Regions from the national deputies of Moshak, Kovac, Haydosh, Laño, Bugka. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause, "young people" shouts.]] Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! As soon as the boys from Korostishev called, they said that they would make monuments free of charge for all the fallen heroes of our Maidan. Please, my parents' phones, give me my phone. We'll do it. Thank you, Heroiam!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u135	Dear National Deputies! I ask once again to invite all the national deputies to insert their cards and enter the session room. Dear National Deputies! Everyone please come into the session room. We're going to vote now. Please be careful. See if your cards are working. They've invited people's deputies. You see, people's deputies are coming in. We will now vote in favour of our order of work, taking into account the situation that is today in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. It's hard to work when, I realize, everyone's on hard terms with these emotions, but we have to continue this work today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote a motion for the continuity of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the end of the political crisis in the state. Please turn on Arsenija Yatsenyuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, there is a request that we all make a responsible decision now. In the country, it's not just a political crisis, it's a country of civil opposition created by the government. And Parliament must work every day, as we have demonstrated today, that the Ukrainian Parliament is capable of taking full responsibility and of making the decisions that the country needs. The continuity of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine means that Parliament will work every day, it means: and on the weekends too. This decision changes the calendar of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was approved by the relevant decree. Therefore, there is a request to put to the vote a decision on the continuity of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-02-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear Society, I ask you to vote for this order. Take it easy. Your Honor, I ask you to put it to the vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[22:58:57]] For 229 [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a small announcement. Literally, several hours ago, while performing duties to ensure the security of foreign ambassadors, namely, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of France, Germany and Poland, were detained by employees of the Ukrainian Department of State Security in the Beresteyska Metro area, who were mistakenly accepted as a "tatsuki". [[B in m in s a l in]] There was also uninterrupted traffic, which was carried by the workers. I'm going to ask for an opportunity to avoid an international scandal there. To make it impossible, let's say, to avoid this problem. There were ambassadors. They're protecting the ambassadors, there might be a problem. Thank you. Respectable Society! I'll call it a break by 10:00 tomorrow morning. Thank you.
