ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit down and prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. I'd like you to sign up. [[10:02:59]] There were 288 national deputies registered in the hall. We're starting our session. Dear colleagues! Traditionally, I'd like to welcome our colleagues to their birthday today. This is Heleway Oleg Ivanovich and Martinyuk Sergey Vasilovich. [[Applause]] Please listen to the announcement. According to these statements and in accordance with article 60, part three, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputies, Clovis Sergey Petrovic and Vladimir Leontijovich, from the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! Now the representatives of the MPs and groups will be able to sign up for the speech and perform. I'd like to brief you very briefly. Without prejudice to the aggressive actions of the Russian Federation Armed Forces, you and I are returning stability to Ukraine. In addition to the Cabinet of Ministers, which has begun to carry out its duties, we are restoring local administrations. And in most areas they're already operating in normal mode. In the near future, I am convinced that the entire executive vertical will function effectively in our country. At the same time, everyone probably knows that at a meeting of the UN Security Council this night, a representative of the Russian Federation said that the Russian Federation had entered an army or was about to enter because they had not yet been identified, and what is interesting is what is being done after a petition by Ukrainian citizen Yanukovic. I want to say, my fellow countrymen, and the Supreme Council certainly supports that only the Supreme Council, and only the Supreme Council, can make decisions in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukrainian legislation when it comes to the introduction of foreign troops into its territory. This is the exclusive competence of Parliament. And no provocation can be used under the cover of any citizen's statement, even an ex-president. At the same time, the Attorney General's Office is investigating mass killings in Ukraine. And one of the main figures in these matters is ex-President Janukovic of Ukraine. That's why the Attorney General's Office will address the Russian Federation, where the ex-president is now, requiring his extradition to our country, where an honest and impartial court will be provided. In order to quickly remove the tension that has arisen today in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Russian Federation must immediately return the troops of its Armed Forces, the Black Sea Fleet, to the places of permanent deployment, remove all its military units from autonomy, stop interference in the internal affairs of our country, and the extradition of Ukraine to Yanukovic would facilitate the speeding up and normalization of the bilateral relations of our countries. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I would like to propose this proposal to form a statement by the Supreme Council, which would refer to the clear emphasis of Parliament's exclusive competence to bring foreign troops into the territory and to normalize the situation associated with the withdrawal of military personnel from Ukraine. Is there no objection to forming this statement, Parliament? None. Is there a proposal to support the vote? Please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:08:20]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before making a decision on the order of today's session, I would like to ask you to sign up for the factions, the MPs. Please turn on the glade system for recording. Dear colleagues, from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Oleg Tuggnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u2	Dear Society, Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Perhaps we have never in the history of an independent Ukraine had such a unified and mobilized one nation. The entire Ukrainian people, regardless of their territory of residence today, are the only ones who understand the processes that are taking place in Ukraine in Crimea and are ready to defend their homeland to the end. Ukraine declared war, and the Ukrainians accepted the challenge. Obviously, the plan to resolve the war against Ukraine was prepared in advance. Russia has still waged an information war, an energy war, an economic, a humanitarian, a religious one. Putin was confident that, after the end of the Sochi Olympics, he would be able to take control of Ukraine peacefully, conduct such a flash-breed. Moreover, the real state of defense of our nation wants better. During the last few years, the targeted Ukrainian army has collapsed. It was also damaged in terms of personnel warehouses, and it was damaged in terms of providing adequate protection and weapons. For today, Putin's plan, and it's already quite obvious, and it's happening all over the world, and it's going to collapse. Ukraine does not run into an invader with an outstretched hug. On the other hand, we are proud today of tens of thousands of Ukrainians who go to war and are willing to volunteer to join the army. Today, we are proud of those civilians who go out against the Russian military, come out with their bare hands, unarmed. Today we are proud of those soldiers in Crimea: sailors, marines, who do not yield to the temptations of such new traitors, new colonels, as this former Admiral Berezowski, and vice versa, sing the glory of Ukraine and swear allegiance to the Ukrainian state. Today, we are proud of members of the families of soldiers in Crimea, their parents, who understand the assignment of their parents, who understand the assignment of their children and support Ukrainian military personnel today. Today, we are proud of our representative at the United Nations, Mr. Sergeyev, who was brilliantly, brilliantly at a meeting of the UN Security Council yesterday, protecting Ukraine, protecting Ukrainian positions, protecting Ukrainian language. Moscow’s plans, society, are understandable. First. Moscow assumed the role of a gendarme. And what they want to do now in Ukraine is by blackmail they want to solve their strategic issues that we can't give up on in any way. They want to end up in Ukraine with a federalisation. They want to provide dual citizenship in Ukraine. They want to introduce a second national language in Ukraine. They want to ensure a guaranteed permanent stay in the territory of Ukraine of their Armed Forces. In no case can we succumb to similar provocations. Today we must be the only nation. Today we need to be all of us together. Today we have to fight off all these attacks. It is because of this that the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union will not, during its confrontation with Moscow, focus its attention on possible provocations that may take place here, in the hall, including in the language field. We will not give in to these provocations, we will not react, but we hope for the proper understanding and patriotism of all Ukrainian national deputies. We want to remind ourselves that we cannot speculate on constitutional fundamental principles: the principle of national Ukrainian language, the principle of not losing possible dual citizenship, the principle of ensuring the unitaryness of the Ukrainian state. And I want to call everyone. We must be ready to defend our homeland, we must be ready in the event of a real military intervention to fight the enemy and win. We will not give up any Ukrainian land. We will surely win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given by the faction of the Communist Party of Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u4	Dear voters, dear colleagues, I think that every citizen of our country today has heartache and anxiety. Such anxiety, such anxiety, never occurred to our independent state. And we, as a parliament, each of our political forces must do everything wisely and balanced to ensure that there is peace in Ukraine, that peace prevails, and that every citizen feels protected from the new authority. Once again, I stress: The Communist Party, our faction has consistently and persistently advocated the preservation of the territorial integrity and unity of our nation. In order to ensure this, not in words, but in fact, we believe that a number of priority steps would have to be taken, the goal of which is to calm society and guarantee all parts of Ukraine, which are equally and respectfully applied to all authorities. First of all, we hope that the Head of the Supreme Council, acting as President, should be assured that he will promise the Language Act that he will officially announce it. We'd rather speak two languages: the Ukrainian and the native languages of the population she considers to be her own, than the language of bullets and shells. I think everyone will agree. Secondly, we have to do everything we can to make Crimea more autonomous, although if we read carefully the current Constitution of Crimea, which was adopted by the Supreme Council, then autonomy is enough, most importantly, to be able to use it effectively. But this is any kind of deepening of autonomy, we're advocating that it deepens and resolves within Ukraine alone, and no other state. Thirdly, we must express our assurances to the eastern and other areas that their national, cultural and values will necessarily be respected in the Ukrainian State. To calm down, and not just to calm down, but to guarantee that every area of our Ukraine must be guaranteed from any distortion. Four. Maybe if we don't completely eliminate it, and we suggest that we completely eliminate such power as the governors, let's go that way: if we choose the mayors, let's choose, let's let the territory choose the governors. And let them be accountable to the central authority, not to those who are sometimes imposed by central authority on a particular region. I think it'll be much better this way. And another very important point. You and I are obliged to do our utmost to resolve a conflict that occurs, including in the Crimea. We must all realize that neither part of society nor any other part of society should call upon our territory of one army or another. We need to realize that if there are armies of other nations in Ukraine, our home will be on fire, and the flames of war will be on our territory, that some or other nations will decide their interests here. And so we need to have a diplomatic language to talk about, in fact, today to resolve any conflict, and most importantly, to calm society and preserve the integrity of our state. These are, in our view, the most important and priority measures that we must take together to appease society. And what especially stings and hurts for the supporters of our Communist Party, for the voters who voted for us. I would like to remind and read, my fellow Members, the European Parliament resolution, February 27th. The 12th paragraph states, stresses that the people of Ukraine alone have free and without external interference to make decisions on the country's geopolitical orientation; calls for temporary authority to guarantee all democratic, political powers their democratic rights; condemns the attack and destruction of the main office of the Communist Party and the attempts to ban the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u5	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u6	Once again condemns the attack on the destruction of the Communist Party's main office and attempts to ban the Communist Party and other parties. Until our office is freed, until the persecution of the Communists is stopped, the faction of the Communists will not vote in the Supreme Council. So, unfortunately, reality. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the Fatherland faction of Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like, on behalf of our faction and I think, from Parliament, to thank our citizens, who in today's difficult situation have proved to be wiser, more balanced, more responsible than all politicians combined. Today our citizens understand the situation very clearly in Ukraine, and whether in Crimea, I mean the wives of our military personnel or those who are in pain for the unity of Ukraine, today they are doing more than we have taken together. They are today protecting the territorial integrity of the country. And I think we need both our military personnel and their families and all the Ukrainian citizens who speak in Russian, Ukrainian, Crimean Tatar language, Ukrainian independence language, territorial integrity language and respect for our Ukrainian state, thank you deeply for our faction and the Ukrainian Parliament. Instead, I would like to draw the attention of politicians, public figures, journalists, who, fortunately, are not so many today, have decided that there is a unique opportunity to make a pianist at war. My request, my friends: you don't have to do that in war, you have to protect people and protect the country. I am especially grateful to the leaders of all the media, who today are coordinated and clearly protecting our territorial integrity, our interests. As you'll see, today, the channels in the only symbolism on the background of the State Flag show that they are behind the only Ukraine, "for a single country." And this is an example for all of us, how we need to negotiate and act together in a difficult situation. The next thesis is extremely important. I'd have to say that very many of our Ukrainians who live in Russia today, or many of Russia's citizens understand the difficult situation and they're with us, and they're taking a clear position. I really like this perhaps a little bit of thesis that the Russians are writing in Russia today and Ukraine in Russia to people who hope that Putin will save them from something. This thesis sounds simple enough that you will not speak Russian, you will be silent in Russian, if Putin is still in Ukraine, God forbid. So I'd like to tell everyone who's living with the illusions of who's going to bring salvation to Ukraine to understand and look at the situation in Russia, and consult with journalists or those who live in Russia, what happiness there is, especially after the Sochi Corporation. Next thesis. I'm concerned that today, in the negotiation process and among experts and international experts, there are these things that, he said, Ukraine should go to the idea of federalization. Friends, I want to publish to you the results of the last sociological study and tell you that in a difficult situation, don't give God the wrong way, the wrong way. The survey was conducted two weeks ago: 70 per cent of Ukrainian citizens - for a unitary decentralized state, and only 17 per cent of them support the idea. east supports the Federation – 29 percent, south – 25 percent, west – 9, center – 5. Advocacy, attention, the Party of Regions for Ukraine to be a unitary decentralized state, 57 percent. The Communist Party's proponents for Ukraine to be a unitary decentralized state, 56 percent. We have no problem with the federal state. We have a problem with local self - government. We have a problem of economic freedom in the regions. We have a problem with decentralization of the budget. We have a problem with the freedom of territorial communities because a person lives in a village, in a village and in a city -- and he doesn't want any criminal authority called "Goblin" to say that we need Crimea. And the community, I think Crimea doesn't want the head of the Supreme Council of Constantinople to repay debts to Russian banks in Crimea. We have to make it clear to the people of Crimea, and to the areas of East and South Ukraine, that we will do everything we can to make decisions in the local community, and the budget has been distributed in the same way with regard to the local community, not the churches at the level of the areas or the level of Ukraine. So, friends, no federation. Extensive local self - government, freedom of every human being, freedom of speech, religion, and worldview! That's the only way we're going to keep Ukraine. Only then will we live in the great Ukraine, which we are proud of. Glory to Ukraine's one and only!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko's strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u10	Dear criminals! Let me say first of all, thank you to each of you for your support of Ukraine’s independence in these days. And it must be said that you have done much more for this than we, politicians, including the members of the Supreme Council. Here we have to be self-critical. We also have to thank, indeed, the Ukrainian army that restored the officer’s honor, and that is what we need to talk about today. And so the proposals from our faction today are the following. First. The state has indeed blamed the Ukrainian army, and we ask the Head of the Supreme Council today to give the budgetary committee a chance to review this poor Ukrainian budget, but all of these lines of expenditure that may be directed towards financing the Ukrainian army find to raise this funding. We also have a specific proposal to go to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine asking to make changes to the Cabinet Order, which determines the location of the participants in the fighting. Our boys in Crimea these days were involved in fighting, and they have all of them -- all of the military serving in Crimea in all of these garrisons -- to get the right status. They should be counted one day in three assignments, and they should receive immediate social and financial guarantees. Third. We appeal to the Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We appealed to our colleagues from most to go together to the Crimea so that it would not harm us if there were only representatives of the political forces who might today. If we come alone, we'll call the wrong reaction. And to go to Crimea together to explain the position, to explain to the criminals how important Crimea is to us and to solve its problems. That's not how it works. Let's make an order from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll delegate special delegations there. They're shared by members of all factions, so that we can go there and work. Similarly, we want to turn to the Red Cross, and to the Ukrainian, international, requiring and requesting that this important international organization perform its functions more actively and deliver on time the humanitarian assistance that our military needs today. Our faction officially addresses all the criminals, especially the military, who would like to move their families out today. We're ready to accept them in Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, Ivano-Frankivsk, in Ternopilsk, in Lviv, to make sure that your families are safe. If you have such a desire to know that Kiev is with you. I believe that when we show this union today, dear colleagues, around the Crimea theme, we have to speak equally honestly about the fact that you and I are going to defeat this "hydrate" that is trying to destroy an independent Ukraine today. If we're being honest in human resources policy, our party requires illustrations, not by ideological or party signs, not by which party they belong, but by whether or not this person has committed crimes against Ukraine and Ukrainian society. We are very glad that the new authorities, and you, in particular, dear speaker, are able to correct our common mistakes so quickly, especially by language law. And we ask today to correct the mistake - and how the Acting President of Ukraine to cancel the Order on the appointment of Mr. Bolotski as Governor of the Luhansk region. This man is involved in Anti-Maidan, where our boys were killed. Yesterday another boy, 26 years old, was killed by his aunts in tents that he had built in Bolotsky. What are we doing?Oh, my God! And it's not about who the political power belongs to, it's about whether he's willing to be a faithful son of Ukraine, whether he's an adapter. We don't have the right of any enforcer, no corrupter brought to power. It's very serious, and we're going to stand up for it. And also the final offer. It is very right that you have suggested, Mr. Head, that this statement be made by the Supreme Council regarding the fact that our Supreme Council, by joint constitutional decisions, has never given or consent to the introduction of foreign troops into Ukraine. But we have similarly appealed for several days because we have no right to pretend that we have not heard the disgraceful decisions of the Russian Parliament. And we have to make statements to the State of Russia and the Russian Federation from the Ukrainian Parliament, where, first of all, it's fair to say what happened is that we condemn such decisions. When our neighbors make a single decision about the start of a war, it is obvious that no Russian policy of their children into that army is going to send and kill Ukrainians. The second question. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u11	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u12	The second question. We have an official body -- the Ukrainian-Russian Inter-Parliamentary Commission -- that hasn't worked for a year. Last time she was supposed to be meeting, by the way, last October in Dnipropetrovsk. And at the suggestion of the State of Russia, this meeting was cancelled. We ask the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ask the State of Russia to immediately assemble this commission. And so that the army wouldn't speak, but the politicians would say, during our open dialogue, they would talk to Russian colleagues about all the issues that they were trying to solve there on their own. Dear friends! Thank you to all who are at this time standing at each other’s shoulders for the sake of Ukraine’s unity! The glory of Crimea and the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u13	From the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, who's going to perform? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u14	Dear friends! Today the attention of the world is tied to the Crimea. And I can tell you, I flew in from Crimea today. I'm talking in front of this whole room. It's all quiet in Crimea. But from this rostrum, I now convey the opinion of all the Crimeans. Crimea has always been a consistent proponent of Ukraine's integrity. Crimea has always respected the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Crimea is a complex, multinational region. It must be considered as, by the way, with all other regions of Ukraine. But today, the Multinational Crimea combines one idea. We are against bloodshed, we are against aggression, we are against war in all its manifestations. A bullet by nationality does not choose. Clumsy for peace. Crime of order in the country. But what, then, is such a high degree of civil opposition?Oh, my God! Yes, the Crimeans and other regions want to hear their rights, their interests, their mentality, their history and the wisdom of building public regional policies. As far as Crimea is concerned, these are the interests of Crimea's autonomy. You know, we're talking a lot today, we're making statements, we're throwing out a lot of slogans, we're in a hurry to get into the Crimean theme. This is the least today and the greatest deficit in specific cases and in specific actions. What do I mean? Today, it would probably not prevent our Council from creating a group of deputies from different factions, from completely different, and from going to the Crimea. Go to Crimea without fear and engage in a dialogue with the criminals. Go to Kerch, go to Sevastopol, go to Simferopol and listen to what people like and how excited they are in Crimea. So I'll tell you when we're with you, hopefully we'll go to Kerch, you'll hear the Kerch's opinion. They said to me, "Vitalina, what should we do, what do we do, how do you blow what our biggest holiday is New Year's Eve, 8th March or Easter?" No, it's 9 May. On May 9, a young and old man takes a candle and rises to the eternal fire of Mithridat to honor the memory of those heroes who liberated Kerch. And today, the Kerchians tell us they're the invaders. How can we live with that? And that's what we need to hear, and that's what we need to understand, and that's what we need to take into account if we want to sew up our country and make it one. They're going to Sevastopol, and they're going to tell you about their heroic past. We're not afraid to go to Simferopol. And I'd like to invite you, distinguished colleagues, to meet the mothers who buried the sons who died here during the Maydan celebration. These are our soldiers, soldiers from our army. They served Ukraine and carried out command orders. You'll hear what those mothers tell you. We're not afraid to meet people who are really afraid of having radical elements knocking on their doors, scaring their children, getting them out. That's what I think. But I want to tell you, dear colleagues, they're afraid of lists. You'll say there are no lists. Now, after that, we'll get in the car and go to the airport, and I'll show you the lists that hang. Is that right? Are we working on the stitching of a State to formulate a common humanitarian policy in our State?Oh, my God! You will meet Berkut, whom you have recognized as an enemy of the people, which is a very powerful factor that is now raging in the regions, including the Crimea. You don't have to be afraid, you don't have to close the subject that's bothering the criminal. I repeat and repeat: Crimean interests always. One minute. We always have to be careful. And in order to sew the country, you don't have to say what Oleg Tuggnibok just said, what we're going to do, and we're going to follow your ideals. We have to listen to everyone and take into account that Sevastopol's mentality is different from Lviv's mentality, but it is. And as long as we don't tolerate that you may speak another language, go to another church, worship other heroes, but you have the right to that story, that opinion, until then our state will be gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u15	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u16	I call on everyone to work together, not through words, but through concrete actions. Only a tolerant relationship with each other and a perception of the history of the other half of Ukraine will enable Ukraine to become one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u17	Dear friends, I think the entire Supreme Council supports both connections and tolerance in relation to all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of where they live, either in Lviv or in Crimea. But, friends, what does this have to do with military aggression against Ukraine and, in particular, with the introduction of armies into the Crimea? And I think we need to understand: we're going to do everything in our own home on our own, without any outside intervention. And our position, respected colleagues who today say that they are in opposition, should also be united. Unification around Ukraine without intervention, without the armed forces of a foreign country. And what we're going to do is I think most people here are convinced of that. And the Ukrainian people are convinced of that. Thank you very much. Please, Anatoly Kinach, European Development, faction. Economic Development, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the Economic Development Group. Ukraine is gradually building on the consolidated actions of the State's society in a peaceful, legal way to cope with the profound systemic social and political crisis. The Economic Development Union welcomes the new quality in Ukrainian politics when Ukraine's national, political and economic interests are a higher priority in terms of current, personal or political conditions. Once again, the world's co-operation has come to realize that Ukraine is a peace-loving state capable of civilized, peaceful methods, based on international standards, protecting its dignity and territorial integrity. This emphasizes once again that only those States that are consolidated, and those nations that respect their history, culture, people, ensure the heritage of generations. And once again, I emphasize the truth that there is no rallying above the graves, and there is prayer on the graves. The Association of Economic Development welcomes the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Armed Forces of Law Enforcement in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for its high level of patriotism, allegiance to the oath and to the country of Ukraine. At the same time, we ask that we focus both our attention and our actions on the current issues that determine the vitality of the state and society. We welcome the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to resume negotiations with the European Union on Association and Free Trade. We suggest that we do not waste time, especially in the economic area, where there are huge risks to Ukraine, to the maximum extent possible to consolidate the efforts of the Cabinet of Ministers and Parliament. Including perhaps through the creation of a joint expert group to ensure that integration processes do not turn Ukraine into a raw material supplement, into an exporter of cheap skilled labour or an import-consuming range. It is very important, and we hope that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine will approve the Personal Composition of the Temporary Special Commission on the further improvement of the Constitution of Ukraine towards the formation of a parliamentary-presidential form of government that will enable local authorities, local self-government, to delegate their powers to places, along with resources, to ensure more effective control of the people, of society over the activities of the government. The most basic issues are those that need to be addressed immediately. And we're proposing, together with the government, in the strictest possible terms, to balance Ukraine's State Budget for 2014, to concentrate our resources in the priority areas, to put strict order in matters of public procurement against corruption. In all states, government purchases are very important for loading enterprises located in the state, from the point of view of their purchases, and for the preservation of jobs. No less serious issues that we expect and are willing to work with the government: monetary and exchange rate policies. And we expect from the government, along with the National Bank, where necessary, with parliament, a clear programme for restoring access to resources, strengthening the financial system. Without these factors, the economy cannot develop. Transfer pricing, small and medium-sized businesses, innovation policies, import substitutions are those issues that we urgently need to address in the context of Ukraine's development and, above all, the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. The Economic Development Union calls for all to unite efforts to bring the state out of a systemic crisis and to create the irreversibility of Ukraine’s development as a European competitive state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, please, from the MP's "North European Ukraine" group, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u20	Dear Head, dear colleagues! The balance on the brink of war, and now we are in that state, must come to an immediate end or end in peace. But for this, obviously, we all have to come out of the simple truth, from the historical realities, that Ukraine is very well-concealed and, unfortunately, Ukraine is still badly sewn up. And this problem is felt in difficult moments, in times of trials that are multiplied by resistance inside the country. It is obvious that the decision of the Russian Federation, which is unacceptable to Ukraine, does not bear the underlying stake of force. We're counting on our internal strife, our internal support for such actions, for people who can perform dirty functions. It is clear that the calculation is also taking a negative reaction to thoughtless, hasty steps, including those carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including in general the new authorities, especially in sensitive matters that we are talking about, and we are not in any way making practical decisions by repeating the spell, thinking that these appeals will calm people. So it's quite clear that we need to take extraordinary steps to bring about an elementary order in the country, so that people, including the Crimea, in the east and south of Ukraine, see that order in the country is, that there is peace, that is the protection of everyone. We need to calm people down, give them faith as a minimum. We believe that the unity of the people is a guarantee that the strong scenario will not be implemented with regard to Crimea and Ukraine in general. And these days have shown that society has been brought together, despite all the discontent, despite all the trouble, people want peace. Another thing we need to understand is that saving Ukraine from the annexation of its territory and the destruction of Ukraine is something that no one can do for us. To do this, it is very important to demonstrate realism and human resources, as our colleagues, particularly Irina Heratchenko, have already talked about. To stop the vacchanal, to rely on those who have or can master the situation, has the support of people, to refrain from purely party assignments. It is unacceptable to conflict on two fronts: inside the country and working together to solve the problem of peace with Russia. We all need to make thorough decisions so that we do not deepen our conflict. Therefore, we suggest that we accept an invitation to the Ukrainian people. We've already addressed everyone: international organizations, to the world, but to accept a call to the Ukrainian people, in which it is clearly stated that the rights of everyone, especially in sensitive issues such as language, belief, national question, will be taken into account completely and further. The other one. Dear colleagues, and in this connection, because today it is said that the language problem, which has been annulled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law on the Principles of Language Policy, is one of the key factors that have disrupted the situation in Crimea, and the Head of the Supreme Council, who has declared that he has made a commitment to the law, most people do not understand what the law has made. Let's make a decision now. I would like to take this proposal calmly: we vote against our decision. And at the same time, create a commission that works the law, and say that this law works, and it's practically not working, until a new law is passed. So we're going to shoot. Dear colleagues! If there is a question about the fate of Ukraine and which decision to make, let us make a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I ask then, along with your colleagues from the profile committees, to prepare a draft request for the Ukrainian people to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. With regard to the Temporary Commission, which should urgently prepare a new draft language law. It is for this matter that we must make a decision today. Dear colleagues, and this is very important, indeed, I have been approached by many non-fractional deputies. I'm asking you, let's give two or three a chance to take three minutes. Is there no objection? None. Please, Oleg Lazko. Then there's Mikola Rudzkowski. In three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u22	Oleg Lazko, a radical party. I want to say that Yanukovic, former President of Ukraine, is going to enter Ukraine's history not only as a person who gave commands to kill people, but also as a person who, in order to return to power, betrayed his own state, betrayed the Ukrainian people. Janukovic was in line with French marshal Petten, who worked with the fascists. Janukovic was in one line with Norwegian dictator Kwisling, who worked with the fascists. They likewise called on the fascists to occupy their lands. To return to power, Janukovic asked Putin to bring troops into Ukraine. This is a national betrayal. And so I demand that the Attorney General's Office file a criminal case against former President Yanukovic for treason, for the promotion of military aggression against an independent Ukrainian state. The other one. Those events that have taken place in recent times regarding Ukraine, the military aggression of the neighbouring country, as it seemed recently, brotherly Russia in relation to Ukraine, should force Parliament to think about further action. The truce that we have received today as a result of adequate action in the middle of the country, as a result of the support of the international community, this truce can end at any moment if we do not act adequately. Ukraine, in view of the threats to our territorial integrity and security that have arisen, must address the issue of non-block status, the elimination of off-block status and NATO accession. Ukraine has to decide on the issue of the return of nuclear status to our country, because the guarantees given in the 1994 Budapest Memorandum do not work. Ukraine today needs to pay the utmost attention to the support of the army, since the one who does not feed his army will feed a foreign army. And the last thing I wanted to say in the absence of time. I want everyone in Ukraine to understand, we are a different country, we speak different languages, we may have different characters, we have different political views, but when it comes to protecting the country, when it comes to uniting the country, we have to be all together, regardless of the views, regardless of the politics. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, given the difficult situation we have today, I think Parliament should be constructive and unique in its actions and decisions. And so I propose, given that there are many speculations about Victor Yanukovic's appeal to the President of the Russian Federation about the deployment of troops into Ukraine, I propose, understanding what's new. Amendments to the 2004 Constitution are exclusively the right to take such a decision in Parliament, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to prepare a ruling today and to vote that this appeal is illegal, invalid and the Supreme Council decides that the Government of Ukraine is capable of controlling its situation in the State on its own. That's the first one. Disavow this address. The other one. I believe that the Supreme Council today should make a working group, prepare a package of proposals for criminals, for the people of Eastern Ukraine. First of all, a group of national deputies should come to Crimea and propose a clear list of legislation on the selection of the city’s head in Sevastopol. The second is that it eliminates the changes that we have proposed under the Language Law, and the failure to return more to this issue that people will be able to speak Russian fluently in the Crimea. The other one. Third. The adoption of a law on the free economic zone in Crimea that will calm people. Four. Once and for all, it is decided that in all regions of Ukraine, who wants which monuments they set up, and only the community makes decisions on these matters. I think so. And the next. We talked a lot about what happened to the democratic revolution of the people that won. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council today has to make a decision, and the government, in order for the people to support this government and power, to abolish medical reform, to abolish pension reform. The Supreme Council must give up parliamentary intrusiveness, withdraw benefits from judges, and appoint successive elections for both the Supreme Council and the local authorities. To form a new authority that would benefit from the trust of the people. Then the government and authority, the Supreme Council, can rely on the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! People's deputies are insolent. And we're putting the risk under performances. I'll give the replica an opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u26	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! As a non-fractional MP, I ask that we have the unity that is now in the hall, not to be disturbed, all the proposals that there are, to put to the vote, only when we see what the left can and the right half of the hall support them. That we have more than 300 votes and that we do not provoke new conflicts. It's different. There is now such positive information in the media that it is as if the minister of defense of the Russian Federation ordered Russian troops to fold and return to their locations by March 7th. I want to say that the main reason why such an order is given is that it is not the help of international organizations, although it is a great thanks to them for their moral support, which is the whole of Ukraine's integration. Uniting and west, and east. The unity of a nation that, nearly 46 million people, cannot be captured by an army, there, 10,000 or 100,000. This was the hope that these actions would cause a conflict between the western part of Ukraine and the eastern part. It didn't happen. And so perhaps Russia's political leadership has decided that we should go back to the location. That's very good. I want to give you some terrible statistics. Official sources: 82 people died during this revolution. I want to say that trying to say that it was a revolution between east and west, it doesn't withstand criticism. Because 35 of the 82 people who died are people who, for example, from the Donetsk region -- 3 people died, 5 people died from the Kharkiv region. In total, 35 people were killed, representing 42.7 percent of Central and Eastern Ukraine. It's a terrible number, it's almost half. And these are people who spoke Russian and who were defending their civic interests, not the interests of the West or the East. So let's maintain a connection -- and no aggressor will ever come to our land. Thirdly, I would like to propose to you, Your Honor, that we immediately accept Parliament or a decree or an appeal to the government. Contact the International Monetary Fund, the Paris Club of Creditors to write off some of our debts, some of our government debt, and restructure some of it to allow us to look at some 100 billion dollars in the 2014 budget for other needs. Other countries did not even address such difficult circumstances, and they went to meet them. Now that certain officials in the West have been arrested, now that we have information that part of the funds has been taken by the Yanukovich family to the East, we should go to meet them. And then there, let them take the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the performances they called Oleg Tuggnibok’s last name. One minute to reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Using the right of reply, since my last name has been mentioned, I want to refer to those national MPs who are still trying to provoke here using a language map. I'm not asking any more of you, I'm asking you to stop doing these language provocations, stop distributing these road propaganda that's constantly going on here on Ukraine that's going to happen. Society, I want to remind you, those who continue these provocations, that the blood and responsibility for the crimes of the Yanukovic regime are also on your hands, on the hands of those who loved him and made him boil. And you keep doing those provocations. And don't speculate on that, please. Now we have to be the only one and together, one to win the enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As for the proposal to make a statement by the Supreme Council that it is exclusively Parliament that has the right to invite foreign troops into its territory. We've already talked about this at the beginning of the session and voted that these should be the basis of the statement. So it's already done. Colleagues, there is a suggestion to move on to the consideration of the order of our meeting today. It's in all your hands. I ask you now to sit down and vote on the inclusion of this agenda before today's session, and to consider it. Please turn on the "Council" system and let's vote. [[11:01:45]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! The first question is very important for Ukraine. While we are negotiating aid, there is a draft law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between Ukraine as Borrower and European Union as Creditor and Credit Agreement between Ukraine as Borrower, National Bank as Borrower Agent and European Union as Creditor for providing Ukraine with macro-financial assistance to the European Union of up to 610 million euros. Remember that question. Is it necessary to give the floor to the Minister of Finance? I won't. We have considered this issue many times, and we have the opportunity to accept it and ratify it. Dear colleagues! Please make up your mind then and without discussing the matter. I bet on a vote without discussing it and making a decision. Please vote. [[11:03:01]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Bill No. 73, the title is long, I've already heard it. Is there any need to repeat it? None. Draft Law 0073, please accept as a whole. Please vote. [[11:03:38]] For 280 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next question that we need to consider with you and on which we have highlighted some of the speakers from factions and MPs is the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draft a bill to amend the Constitution of Ukraine. You all know that the Supreme Council restored by its decision the constitutional number of votes the effect of the Constitution, which was adopted in 2004. It's this very constitutional act that's going on right now. At the same time, of course, both the activities and government structures, both the President and the local administrations, which were in force during the Constitution, have shown that this project requires further development, including not only the distribution of power between branches, but also protection, the real protection of our citizens, and their interests. That is why, during the Conciliation Council of Heads of Deputies and Groups, a proposal was made to create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council to draft a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. This committee includes representatives of various factions and groups, so that we can take all the proposals into account when the draft Constitution of the Parliamentary-President Republic is being clarified. To take into account the thought and the setting, and the east, and the center, and the south, and the north. You all have this project on your hands. Is there a need to discuss it, or can we make decisions? There's a note to the project. Please turn on the microphone for the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The point is that the seventh paragraph does not specify the time limit by which this temporary special commission should operate. Yeah, we've seen it, it's written. Alexander Valentinovich, I'm addressing you. Allow me to talk to the Head. The point is, there's no deadline for the commission to act. And it would be logical, if it were possible, for the deadline to end when a decision is taken by the Supreme Council as a whole on this bill. Because we don't know when we can make some final decision right now. It's obviously going to be the next session under the Constitution. But whether it's September or October or November, we can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u31	Offer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u32	Proposal: A deadline for the adoption by the Supreme Council of a bill amending the Constitution to be prepared by this temporary special commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u33	No objection, dear colleagues? There's no objection. I was approached by non-fractional deputies, asked to give one position of membership to this commission and to the non-fractional. There's an offer to agree, and non-fractionals will collect signatures -- and make a proposal for their candidate. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Taking into account the observations made by the People's Deputy Knazević and taking into account the quota for non-fractionals, please support the draft Decree (No. 4348) on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the preparation of a bill on amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, which has been adopted as a basis and as a whole. Enter suggestions, we'll write them down. On the basis and in general. Please vote. [[11:07:30.]] For 288 For 288 votes. Decision taken. Turn on the microphone to the head of the committee, National MP Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I wanted to offer you something else: considering that we are working today in a budget economy, we may not be able to make a separate machine, not to make a separate material and technical provision for this commission. We are prepared by the Committee on Legal Policy to ensure the work of this commission so that we do not spend too much money and too much human resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, I think we have an opportunity to ensure the work of this commission: it will consider a very important issue. There's no denying that the committee will help. I think this proposal will be supported. At the same time, the commission should work as an independent body and make proposals that will be approved by the Supreme Council by the number of votes that will far exceed 300. Dear colleagues, we move on to the next question of our agenda: the question of the release of judges. I want to inform you immediately before I give the floor to the High Council of Justice. I don't see anyone, by the way, from the High Council of Justice. Yes. He's on the left. This issue was discussed at the Conciliation Council. And, on the one hand, honourable colleagues, the Supreme Council, like the entire Ukrainian people, should take very seriously and carefully the question of the appointment of a judge in connection with the fact that the judicial branch of power has been deformed, compromised, in view of the fact that justice in Ukraine has in fact been absent in recent years. And that is why these are principles and weighty questions, and we must treat them with great respect and responsibility. At the same time, there is an offer to consider the release of judges. But the number of proposals for release was much higher than what is now to be announced. Why are not all proposals for release now put to the vote? Because many judges who now want to retire and receive huge allowances, etc., have had serious violations during their activities when considering matters that violate the law, the Constitution, and so forth. Therefore, questions will now be considered, only in connection with retirement or in connection with the health of those who cannot do justice. All other issues will be dealt with separately by the committees and working groups, which I believe should be created by the Supreme Council. And now I'm asking the microphone for the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is on the draft Decree (No. 4346) on the discharge of judges in connection with the age of 65. The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposes that judges be dismissed: Lviv's Court of Appeal – Krayevska Miroslav Vasilevna; Zitomir District Court of the Zitomir Region – Černjavský Mikhail Vasilovic; The Economic Court of the Mikolai district is the court of the Semenova Anatolia Kostinović.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, are there any comments or questions on this matter? I won't. We can vote. Please put this project to the vote. 4346, please vote. On the basis and in general. [[11:11:48]] For 269 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u38	Next project, Decision 4346-1. The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposes that judges be released in connection with the inability to exercise their powers of health: the Court of Appeal of the Kirovograd Region – Golša Oleg Anatoliyovich; The Chilean district court of Odessa County is Gavrish Margarita Zacharynovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, are there any comments, objections? I won't. Can we take it as a whole? Please, the number of the Decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u40	4346-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u41	4346-1 please accept as a whole. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:12:50]] For 264 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u42	The next draft of the decree is 4346-2. The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 6, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposes that judges be released in connection with the acquisition of legal force by arraignment of indictments against them. Tulchin district court of the Winnick district of Lulka Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv district Kulinichenko Hennady Volodymirovich Alexandri District Court of Kirovgrad, Petuskova Sergia Anatoliyovich Shirayiv District Court of the Odessa district of Parinuk Sergey Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, is there a question for this project? There's a question. Please turn on the microphone. Romanyuk, national MP, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u44	The Vitalia Klitschak faction, Romanyuk Romaniovich. Dear Chairman, we are invited to release the judge of the Obukhiv district of the judge of the Kyiv district of Kulinichenko Hennady Volodymirovich. I don't have any questions about him. I have a first-instance decision. But after carefully reading Kulinichenko’s material, I can see that his request is to postpone the consideration of this release by acquittal to a court of cassation. On February 18, however, the court of cassation discovered the conduct, and you know that. There is the High Qualifications Commission's advice, dated February 3rd, on the validity of his sentence, is the decision of the High Council of Justice, which was dated February 3rd. Please specify whether the judgment against the judge is valid today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u46	The indictment against the judge, who accordingly, if you read in the criminal file, made more than a dozen decisions on the alienation of state-owned property of military land and made a decision -- forcing the authorities to form land that belonged to the State or local government, gained legal power at the time of the court of appeal. An accusation at the auction station does not stop the validity of the sentence. Therefore, the Higher Qualified Commission has submitted this appeal to the High Council of Justice, the Higher Council of Justice has made this appeal in accordance with the Constitution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has to make a decision. I don't think criminals in manti should do justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! Do you need to ask me again? Please, Romanyuk, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u48	I'm sorry, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Judge Kulinichenko filed a cassation complaint, I'm not defending him, I can't say whether he's a criminal or not. But imagine that the cassation facility that Judge Kulinichenko handed over, the cassation facility would confirm his truth or leave him unchanged. And how, then, will we look when we make a decision regarding his release? I propose that Judge Kulinichenko be transferred to another time when the decision of the cassation facility will be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u49	I can confirm that the decision is legal, the verdict is legally binding, the constitutional rules provide for the right of the Supreme Council to decide, and you decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Can we vote? Exclusion from this judge or without? With the exception of this judge? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! I'm talking to people who want to be a lawyer or who don't want to be a lawyer. Recall this situation: On the way to Boryspol on the right side of the road, there were people living and sleeping for more than a year where a similar judge took the land. Next. On the way to Boryspill on the right under the village of Gora, two huge stains were produced. Age-old forests have been cut off. Well, with the permission of those judges, there's a gas station right now, and there's something else. The court has proved that he is guilty, that he should appeal to his health, but according to his colleague Lavrinović, he is not such a man in a judicial robe. Please, Alexander Valentinovich, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! I think we have the right to put questions to the vote. In the event that this judge will cassationally prove his innocence, the committee will consider his restoration. Therefore, when he has no comments, and unfortunately for most judges, he owes the Ukrainian people a colossal debt for the betrayal of his oath, for the decision was made not by the Constitution and the law but by the instructions or the bribes. So, dear fellows, let's make a decision. I'm voting on Decree 4346-2. Please take the decision as a whole. [[11:18:32]] For 266 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u53	Next project (4346-3) on the release of judges. This is a draft decision that applies mainly to those who have applied for retirement. In accordance with article 126, part five, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the application for resignation is proposed to release judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine - Harchenk Vasil Vasilovic; The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine - Zarjek Anastasia Alexiyevna, Moskalenko Viktor Semenović, Przikov Evgen Volodymyrovich, Handurin Mikol Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Nekles Victor Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Winnitsk Region, Güzola Pavel Petrovich; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region - the Forest of Vera Sergiyevna, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Lupin's Ludmila Mikhailna. The Court of Appeal of Ivano-Frankiv district, Flisak Roman Josephovich. The Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region, Borisenko Petar Trochymovich, Melniczuk Valery Alexandrovich; The Court of Appeal of Poltava Region is Antonova Volodymira Mikolaiovich; The Court of Appeal of the Sumskie District, Lugo Mikol Grigorovich; The Court of Appeal of Kharkiv County, Bykov Larissa Petrovna, Hook Valentine Vasilovna, Kiselov Grigori Stepanovich, Toustolous Alexander Antonovna; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region, Dubchenka Anatolia Pavlovich; The Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region - Smagluk Raisu Ivanovna; the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol - Alyeu Natalija Galovna; The Kyiv Court of Appeal - Usnka Vasil Grigorovich; Donetsk’s Court of Appeal - Manjour Valentine Vasilovna Kharkiv’s Court of Appeal - Afanassiev Vladimir Viktorovich; The First-Major District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Zabar Galin Yakovna; The Provincial District Court of the Horn of Creature of the Dnipropetrov region - Valov Valentina Grigorovna; The Kirov City Court of the Donetsk Region is Christopher Boris Alexandrovich; The Red-Leiman City Court of the Donetsk Region - The Frost of the Line of Ivanovna; The central-city district court of Gorlovka Donetsk Region - Jorgerdin Alexandr Ivanovich; Novograd Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir Region - Hickek Mikola Grigorovitch; The Lenin District Court of Zaporozhye - Dzizenko Lilia Anatoliyevna Lutuginian District Court of Luhansk, Kutishtsev Lidija Pavlovna; Kamenka-Buzki District Court of the Lviv Region - Gorsko Lidija Bogdanovna; The railway district court of Lvova - Riginu Lyubov Mihaylovna; The first-major municipal court of the Mikolai district - Gorbenko Svetlana Anatoliyevna; The ship’s district court of Mikolayeva - Batchenka Vejacheslav Grigorovich; The Killia District Court of the Odessa Region is Boškova Mikola Ivanovich; Kodima District Court of Odessa District - Followed by Vasil Maksimovic; The Suvorov district court of Odessa - Jurik Volodymira Fedorovich; The Provincial District Court of Harkov - Grigoriev Alla Alexiyevna Lissian District Court of Cherkas - Zolototopy Alexander Ivanovich; Ummansk District Court of Cherkas - Marinchuk Mikhail Pavlovich; Spolyan district court of Cerkas region - Mishina Mikola Ivanovich; The Hotinsky District Court of the Chernovetsk Region, Hergeliziu Remus Fedorović, Martinyuk Anatolia Omelanovic; Righteous District Court of Kiev - Dubinina Vitali Ivanovich Gagarin District Court of Sevastopol - Eudemimus Irina Arsentiyevna The Economic Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Sokolova Irina Alexandrovna The farm court of Volin County - Cherniak Love Alexandrovna; the Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov region - Bodilovsky Maria Mikhailnovna; Ivano-Frankiv District Economic Court, Circle Olen Mikitovna; Lviv County Commercial Court - Gulika Grigori Stepanović, Stansk Lukjan Lukjanović And also to release Great Helen Volodymyrna from the post of Judge of the Red Army District Court of the Donetsk Region in connection with her application for discharge at her own request.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I see there's a point to this project. Please, National Deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u55	Oleg Lazko. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! We are now invited to release these judges in connection with the application. So each of them, when they're released, gets an output of 300 to half a million dollars -- 100 minimum salaries. At the same time, we do not know who we are releasing. Maybe among these judges are the people who committed corruption, who carried out political sentences, decisions, etc. on a command from the President's Administration. I mean, I suggest you take this question out of consideration today, in person, for each judge. And, Alexander Valentinovich, I think we have to change the law at all. What is it? It's going to be half a million out of the way! Work in the village comes out, 100 bucks won't be given. A man in town, a doctor or a teacher comes out -- 100 bucks a union won't give, and here they were sitting, bribed -- and then from the state half a million dollars a hand, give him no idea why! Take that question off, take it out on every judge, and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this is indeed a pressing problem, especially in the context of the crisis that today is the economy after the fall of the Yanukovic regime. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Griesenka. And then the national deputy of Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! I'm in favour of delaying the consideration of this issue, and in principle not to be. As judges, they will work. If not, answer through the illustration. But I now have a question to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the heads of factions and to those who represent the coalition. How did this question arise today? The daily routine is formed on the Conciliation Council by those representing the majority. I ask that no more such questions be raised in principle. If people demand illustrations and we promised them, they cannot be considered here without an illustration. They're either going to play, or they're going to work honestly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I remind you once again that the Conciliation Council has decided to rule solely on judges who are of age, health, or judgment. And I'm also surprised why we're looking at this right now. National MP of Labunska and National Deputy of Kyde. And I feel like we're taking this issue off the table before we do an expert study on everyone who applied.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, Alexander Valentinovich! I also want to point out that there are people on the lists who refused to make the decisions that the authorities then demanded. And there they were just forced to write a statement of resignation. This is a very important decision. And I'm asking you to do something with the committees. We have strange things going on in the committees. We have previously considered, as you say, the decision that we will make in the room to vote for age and health. I don't understand how this decision came about in the hall, how the committee head signs and submits it. We didn't have that kind of arrangement on the committee, because there are people they've dealt with, and we have to stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I ask you to gather a profile committee and find out why these questions arise. Please, National Deputy Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u61	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There was an accusation at the Conciliation Council’s address, and it was said that the Conciliation Council was inconsiderate. So yesterday, when I take part in the Conciliation Council meeting, I want to inform the esteemed society: it is precisely we who have stressed that we cannot pass such a decision and release the judges with huge payments of financial assistance, which is still not in the Ukrainian budget. Everyone needs to be examined. On the contrary, if there are charges against those judges who want to run on purpose right now, criminal cases should be opened or released for the article without proper payment of the material. So the issue at the Conciliation Council was not consistent; it was not good for the heads of factions. The questions must be immediately taken off and reviewed by each judge on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I fully support the speeches of the national MPs, and we're taking this matter off the table. I'm asking the committee to make sure that we have those agreements that we reach at the Conciliation Councils, that they are implemented, that no improvisation takes place. That's it, thank you. Let's close this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u63	Alexander Volodymyrovich, we're taking down the question. Dear colleagues, right now I want to do it. Let's check and draw conclusions. Dear colleagues, I just want to read the announcement that proves once again what court system we had. You know that in violation of the Constitution, the laws in force of Ukraine have passed, the authorities have tried blackmailing deputies and some of them have been depriving them of their mandates. And justice is being restored today. We have reinstated the work of the deputies who have been unlawfully deprived of this right by the courts, in violation of, I reiterate, the Constitution of Ukraine, where there are clearly defined motives for depriving the deputy of the mandate. And yet another justice is restored. I declare that according to the Order of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine of 28 February 2014, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich is the national deputy of Ukraine. [[Applause]] So it happened that it was the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yacenouk Arseny Petrovich, who was appointed as the National Deputy, who was on the "Fatherland" list, who created the vacancy that Sergey Vlasenko is now filling. I welcome Sergey Vlasenka for the fact that justice has been restored to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, another announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy Gruba Grigori Ivanovich of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! We keep working. And now we have, you see, the day of the restoration of justice. Your attention is now being paid to draft Act No. 4295 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to clarify the calculation and registration of taxpayers. This is a project by the national deputy Karpuntsov Valery Vitaliyovich. Dear colleagues! Before we look at it, there's an offer to do it in a simplified way. No objections? I won't. Please vote on the summary procedure. Please vote. [[11:31:15]] For 219 Decision taken. It's a procedural decision. Please give the floor to the national deputy Karpuntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u65	Glory to Ukraine! I'd like to consult with our colleague Vlasenko. But once again, I would like to stress that constitutionalism alone will restore justice in Ukraine. Project 4295. Please, colleagues, note what it's called: "To make changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the precise calculation and registration of taxpayers." If you look at the project's objectives and tasks in the explanatory note, it also coincides with a bill aimed at clarifying the calculation and registration of taxpayers, excluding the Tax Code. Well, in this case, the impact faction once again emphasizes that the continuity of the work of the Supreme Council also determines the continuity of the work of the committees. And according to the Rules, we must act. As a matter of fact. There is a conclusion of our administration that recommends the adoption of a bill in the first, just a bill that has been adopted as a basis. I support this management decision. And I want to tell you. That the text of the bill that I have passed does not fully address the issue of its name regarding clarification. There's a pretty substantial and pretty good offer from the people's deputy Teryochin, and I'll ask her to make a sound. And although the committee has decided to vote on the basis and in general, I insist that this draft decision be taken solely on the basis that we can take Teryochin's amendments into account on the committee and continue to endorse them as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u66	I mean, I got it right, you're offering to accept it in the first reading and in the shorter procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u67	And by the abbreviated procedure, correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u68	And by a reduced procedure, prepare and accept as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u69	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Thank you. Is there a need to discuss the project? None. Can we vote? I ask, my fellow Members, to consider and support the bill (4295) on amending the Tax Code to clarify the calculation and registration of taxpayers in the first reading. Please activate the "Race" system and identify yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] The author wrote on the first reading, honourable colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Please vote. Please make up your mind. [[11:34:04]] For 259. Decision taken. Please now vote that the bill should be drafted for a reduced procedure before the second reading. So the author insists, I get it. Yes, please vote. [[11:34:28]] For 256 Decision taken. I'm asking the committee to work quickly, and this bill is a bill that we have to adopt, because this one, let's say, is a position in the past law that was purely political, and we have to take it down. Dear colleagues, a very important question we need to consider with you right now. I give the floor to the Head of the Spiritual and Cultural Committee, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. And we are discussing the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draft the Law on Development and Application of Languages in Ukraine. Zarubinski, a national MP, wants to ask a question. Is that a question? Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy while Viacheslav Kirilenko approaches the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u71	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Perhaps I would like to ask Mr. Viacheslav the same question immediately: Do we want a result or a process? When this group is formed, there's a list of who's involved. Look who's getting involved. We want the result, so let's bring here the representative of the University of Luhansk of eastern Ukraine, the philosopher, the representative of the Tavrish, or what it's called, Simferopol, the representative of Odessa. There are two representatives from one academy here from all the higher education institutions. Well, it's a good academy, but it's not all of Ukraine yet, do you understand that? Mr. Viacheslave, if you want the result, please include all those who are engaged in languages, in all languages in Ukraine, otherwise it will be another mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, please, let's speak to the committee head and then ask a question. I think we're going to take all the suggestions with you because it's our shared responsibility. This is a very important question. And we should not underestimate. And all the experts that need to be involved need to be involved: from the west, from the east, to be a balanced version of the law. Please, Mr. Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u73	Thank you, Mr. Head. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland faction, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. You know what has arisen in society as a result of the need for a new Law on the Development and Use of Languages in Ukraine. Various discussions are taking place, both political and professional, around this issue. So there was a need to create a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that at the level of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, who had agreed to lead it, it would start its work. Members of all parliamentary factions and groups, as well as non-fractional groups, should be involved in such a commission. And I fully agree that experts from all the leading universities in Ukraine from all areas, regions and territories that are professionals and language professionals should be included in the expert part. So now that we vote in favour of this order, we can vote in favour of the parliamentary part, and in the professional part, or add the point that we can recruit experts and continue without completing the list of experts in the draft resolution, or remove all experts in general, and allow the commission to have a comprehensive list of experts -- it could be 15, 17, 20, 25 people -- formulate. And now to vote only on the part of the temporary special committee. If there is no objection, I would suggest such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again not to speculate on the names and questions that have been brought before the commission, take a decision and read it carefully. I now, let's see, I see all those who raised their hands, let me give you an opportunity to ask a question. National Deputy Tihypco. All those who want to do it, let's face it. Whoever wants to do it, I'll give them a chance to speak. It's an important question, let's not limit ourselves in time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u75	Mr. Head, I agree with part of what the reporter is offering. I wouldn't be teaching a list of experts today. I'd let the group figure it out. Because there should be more than just philosophers -- there should be lawyers who use language, local self-government, and so on. But I would like, I think the commission is very important, and I would like to raise its status. I'd like you to lead the task force.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u76	Dear friends, you know, very busy, Sergey Leonidovich. This needs to be addressed in a professional way. I just, well, honestly, I don't have to sleep at least an hour at night. So let's do it anyway. The commission's deadline is very limited. We need to take this question right away. So I would ask those who will work on the committee to make it a priority for themselves. And they threw away all the other stuff and they were only dealing with it. I mean, my dear colleagues, there is no political dominant here. There is only one dominant, which is the responsibility of Ukraine. Realizing that there are so many speculations about this issue. People's MP Popescu, turn on the microphone. I can see all the hands. And Heratchenko too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Popescu. Highly esteemed presiding, high-ranking Head! How do you feel about the need to take two points into account when drafting this bill? It's very important. First moment. It is mandatory to preserve the existing system of teaching in the languages of national minorities in order to reassure people. And second moment. At locations where language minorities make up a significant percentage, a compulsory study of the language is provided. The percentage is determined in the way it is used in different countries of the European Union. And then send a bill to the Venice Commission and make a round table and a discussion with all the national minorities in Ukraine. How do you feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u78	Mr. Viacheslav, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u79	We talked to a colleague of Popescu about these suggestions he made. I personally have no objection to these theses he makes. I don't think they'll meet the opposite on the committee either. You know, there are now four only basic drafts in Parliament on language law and language application and about eight amendments to the Language Act. In principle, the basic principles on which we should build new language legislation are known. And I think that's the subject of the committee itself. Once again, I agree with the proposal made by Zarubinsky's colleague and colleague Tihypco that we should now approve our own MP's composition of the Temporary Special Commission, and the comprehensive list of experts to expand and approve this list as a newly elected commission of deputies of all factions, groups and non-fractionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u80	Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will now speak on behalf of Mary Mathios, because in Mary Vasilovna the voice has disappeared. So Maria Vasilovna proposes that we call it the law: the order in which languages are used in Ukraine. This is how she insists on this position. The status of languages is defined in the Constitution. The use of languages should be defined exclusively by law; this is article 92, paragraph 4, of the Constitution. Language development is obviously not regulated by any law, it's a natural process. It can depend on the politics of the language state and, above all, on the politics of a government that either promotes or slows down the development of all languages. That's why we ask, and we think it's more right to call it, the Law on the Order of Application of Languages in Ukraine. As for the position of vote, we support the idea that today we should vote only on the parliamentary part, and this working group itself will determine the list of those expert speakers from all regions of Ukraine who will make the law balanced and will only do the honour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u82	I understand the head doesn't deny it. People’s MP, Kyda Then - Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Thank you. We've already been given a detailed draft of the decree, where the already recorded representative of the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom, Irina Farion. But I have an offer. Mr. Valentine, there is an offer: To this project, to include Vijacheslav Kirilenko as the head of the profile committee. Because it won't be a full-time job for this committee without cooperating with the committee, once. And the second. Viacheslav Kirilenka already has bills that can be considered by this commission. Please consider and add Viácheslav Kirilenka to the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u84	Please. The national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u85	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Dear colleagues, a new Ukraine is born and a new, full, and fundamental Language Law, not a political one, not a conjuncture, but a normal and long - term Language Law, is to be born along with it. And to do that, I emphasize, you know, that in fact, a fictitious translation and ratification of the European Charter of Languages by Medvedchuk led us this way. Instead of the minority languages that the State must protect, there has been a totally incorrect translation and regional languages have been introduced. We have to rediscover, there is already a translation of the real Charter, with the seal of the Foreign Ministry, take and re-examine, ratify the normal Charter, and it will lead us on a very normal path to accept this already, once again, fundamental.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u86	Please respond, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u87	Around the European Charter of Regional Languages, and more precisely the authenticity of translation, the writings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have always been broken in a number of recent summonses. So there is a point now to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other interested authorities to give a final official interpretation, a final official translation into the Ukrainian language of the European Charter. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues! We should bear in mind that the Venice Commission should also conclude that a project to be carried out by a temporary special parliamentary commission is to be carried out. And if so and if there is such an understanding, we should be aware that by March 11, this year we can work on our version of the project, but by March 11, this year, the conclusion of the Venice Commission is, of course, unlikely to be there, and in this case it is crucial and extremely important. Please consider this too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u88	Thank you. Turn on the microphone of the Shufrich People's Deputy. I see all hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I am convinced that society welcomes the decision on the promise of the Language Act. In the same way, most have taken a very responsible stand toward the situation that is now taking place in the country. I am convinced that the new law, which will now be developed by representatives of all factions, will certainly be better than the one that works today and raises so many questions. We need to unite around the language issue, not disunite, especially today, when we face considerable challenges and challenges. I hope that working on this bill will unite the Supreme Council and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u91	Istvan Highdosh, the Sovereign European Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 23 February this year to repeal the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of State Language Policy has offended many of the social organizations of national minorities and has created conditions for political speculation, which is an extremely undesirable phenomenon in this complex social and political situation. Many international organizations and experts have given a positive assessment, characterization, and approval of the repealed law. In general, it is in line with the international commitments undertaken by Ukraine in the area of protection of the rights of national minorities. Therefore, by repealing this law, the European and the world community condemned such a decision by the Supreme Council. I am asking you, Alexandre Valentinovich, to apply the veto to the Ukrainian Act on the Loss of Validity of the Law on the Principles of State Language Policy because they believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! All 23 years of Ukraine’s new independence have taken place and discussions are taking place around the language issue. That's true. But you and I have to be objective: the previous Act on Principles of State Language Policy actually introduced Ukrainian national language into a state of humiliation and follow-up language. This is a fact that is confirmed by all the standards of this law. At the same time, we must take into account the linguistic diversity that exists in Ukraine and really ensure the protection of the languages of national minorities. It should be said that national minorities such as such and minority languages have been protected in Ukraine since 1992 when the Basic Law on National Minorities in Ukraine was passed. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, three official languages function separately: Russian, Ukrainian, Crimean Tatar. And no interfaith complications in Crimea have arisen or arisen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u95	Therefore, our task is not to recognize the objectivity and effectiveness of the previous law; it is harmful to Ukraine as a whole, but to work out such a law on how to apply the languages of Ukraine, which will conform to article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly states: Ukrainian is a national language, Russian and other languages of other national minorities are being protected and developed. It's our job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u96	Guys, guys, come on, I see three more hands, let's go. People's deputy Lazko. Then, from the Communists, Matthew's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u97	Oleg Lazko. I'm very often called by Russian-speaking citizens and they start their conversation by saying, "I'm sorry I speak Russian." I want to address all the people who speak Russian who are going to call me next, please don't apologize to me for what you're saying in Russian. Speak the language you are comfortable with. But as a Ukrainian, I ask all Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine to respect the right of Ukrainians to free communication in Ukrainian. I ask and ask all the civil servants to speak in Ukrainian, speak in your life -- how comfortable you are, what you've grown up to know. And I want to look around the world who is now listening to the lies of the first Russian channel about the plight of Russian-speaking citizens. Dear world, there are no problems in Ukraine with the use of Russian!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u98	Please, the people's representative of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a colleague of ours now, has just said in this room that a new fundamental law on languages should be born in Ukraine. But of course, this is not something we can agree on. But, notice, the sixth paragraph of the temporary special commission is to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council by 11 March a draft law on the development and application of languages in Ukraine. Can this be done? There's only seven days left. Can we at this time prepare a law that we would like? I don't think so. Success may not be the best way to help. The other one. One more. I'm not talking about the number of grammatical errors in the text of this project, the proposed draft regulation. Note that such projects should at least be read.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u100	Thank you for your observation. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, I agree with my colleague Matthew in the sense that we should read every rule of this new bill that will be considered and submitted to the Parliament of the Ukrainian Society. So to say that the law that will solve all the issues will be filed by March 11 is extremely difficult. But we can decide that the basic rules will be approved and agreed upon within the Temporary Special Commission, and the first version of the draft law will be sent to the Venice Commission for Democracy through Law. After the commission's conclusion, and we'll ask for it as soon as possible, we have to submit this bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for consideration. Let me put it this way. Previous Law on the Principles of State. politics was adopted against all the conclusions of the Venice Commission. This is not to be repeated and should be followed in accordance with the spirit and letter proposed by the European community in all parts of language legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u102	People. Turn it on. Ladies and gentlemen, let's give this important question a chance to tell the MPs. We'll be able to vote. Please turn on the microphone of the Pharion People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! I consider it a huge mistake to promise, to repeal the Language Act. This law was clearly Ukrainianophobic and boasted of a brutal violation. Violent violations have been reported by various international organizations as well as by expert commissions in Ukraine. This law has become the greatest disgrace for Ukraine. 232 deputies voted in favour of repealing this law, so his promise is an invasion of the MP's will. That's the first one. The other one. This law, which we are about to work on, has the primary power to protect and disseminate the state status of the Ukrainian language. If any section of this law restricts the state status of the Ukrainian language, it will warm Putin’s plans for the introduction of a second national language in Ukraine or any other language. And now to the word of the Dochin: when Napoleon captured Russia, all the off-branded Russians firmly refused to speak French. France fell. Instead, Russia stood.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u104	Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u105	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Alexander Valentine's Day, question to you: tell me, have you vetoed the law or not, and how can you see that? If you have not vetoed, then I have a proposal to return to the proposal of Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvin to vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I spoke to the citizens of Ukraine yesterday and explained that we had held the Conciliation Council -- and I supported the proposal of the deputies, and I fully agreed not to sign the law repealing the law that we have just discussed with you, until the Supreme Council passed a new law on language. And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies to focus on adopting a new balanced language law. I ask that we do not drag the political rope: who is more, who is better, who is more professional? We need the law to be satisfied, not primarily by national deputies, but by the people of Ukraine. That's what we have to work on. I'm asking you to give People's Deputies Pinzenic a chance to say. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u107	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We all understand, realize, what a sensitive law that requires restraint, attention, and care. We are also well aware of how many forces are trying to speculate on this subject. In this regard, I appeal to all of us to support the proposal made by my colleague Matthew. Today, we have an important political unity in Parliament that we are prepared to adopt a law that will never be used by anyone to speculate. Therefore, the quality of the law is more important to us than the speed of it. So I proposed to support Matthew's proposal to give more time, perhaps it would be necessary to include other representatives before the commission, but to adopt a law that would not allow anyone to speculate around the language theme in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u108	Please. And a proposition for determination. Mr. Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I have a specific offer, two suggestions. The language issue is extremely sensitive, and we've seen it in the Crimea Peninsula. Involve in a temporary special commission a representative from Crimea, a national MP and a representative of the humanitarian sector. I'm offering Vitalina Dzos. And the second question is to extend the term of office of a temporary special commission until March 31st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, there are suggestions, let's still formulate them so that they can be voted on. First. There have been proposals to put outside this regulation a list of experts who should be involved in drafting this law in order to balance the representations of experts representing different schools in different regions of Ukraine. Is this supported by a proposal? Supported. Next, dear colleagues. I would also ask the working group that we are about to create, a temporary group, to involve the leading cultural actors, science, particularly those represented by the First December Group. They were eager to take part in the drafting of this law. That's a second offer. The third offer. As for the number of participants in this group. There was a suggestion to include the head of the profile committee. It was suggested to include a representative from Crimean deputies, Vitalina Dzos. And there was also an offer to leave one quota for non-fractional deputies, which is also determined for their representative. Is there no objection to these proposals? I won't. Dear colleagues, one request. Can you give me another Crimean representative? Because we included her in the temporary committee under the Constitution. This contradicts the Rules. Is there another offer? I didn't hear. Give me your name. From Crimea, we're ready to take the name. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u111	I propose that I offer Lutik's Valentine's Day to Ivanovna, the city of Kerch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u112	No objections? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, let us not disturb the hall. Please turn on the microphone. I can't see without my glasses.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head! I propose to include Gemelov Mustafa as a representative of the Human Rights Committee and as a criminal who knows the situation that is currently taking place in Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u114	No objection, dear colleagues? And also Cemilov will be included in this commission. There's no objection. Dear colleagues! There was also a proposal for the latter to increase the commission’s time of work until March 31st. The only requests, dear colleagues. When it is possible to prepare this law quickly, it must be done more quickly. When there is an opportunity to speed it up, please speed it up. I understand that this should be a very professional, balanced law. But we do not have much time to calm people down. So there won't be any speculation about the language issue. With all these proposals, can we put the project to a vote? We can. Dear colleagues! Please put to the vote draft 4347 on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council for the preparation of the draft Law on the Development and Use of Languages in Ukraine and to vote on it as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[12:02:53]] For 275 Decision taken. Honorable fellow workers! Now, wait. Dear colleagues, please calm down. We still need to make a decision, a statement came from Stepan Kubiwa, who is asking that his mandate be terminated in the short term. In accordance with article 85, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decides to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, elected in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of the political party of the All-Ukrainian "Fatherhood" in connection with a personal application for the formation of parliamentary powers. Dear colleagues, may we put to the vote, this decree does not need to be included in the agenda? We can. Please support Decision No. 4350, which I have just announced. Please activate the "Council" system and vote. [[12:03:55]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there were a lot of suggestions here, so I understand that the People's Chamber of Commerce wants to say on this point, about the active participation of the people's deputies in the normalization of the situation and in the Crimea and in general on the outside, let's say, the fronts around Ukraine are trying to create. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that the Conciliation Board of Heads of Deputies and Groups has proposed to sign an order that I have already signed for the establishment of an Advisory Group with the participation of the National Deputies in order for this group to work towards normalizing the situation with all the local councils and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and East Ukraine, and to use its capabilities and knowledge during international meetings. I'll let you know. Information about the composition of this group will be announced when there is a need to increase it, we will always meet. Please, Nestor Ivanovich. And we'll risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u115	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, let me continue in Russian because this issue will directly concern our people in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. On instructions and in agreement with the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have refrained from commenting on Friday, but today, given the public interest, we will talk about this. The Supreme Council of Ukraine met with the leadership of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The whole package of issues raised by Parliament and the Autonomous public was delivered. A preliminary decision has been taken to establish an Inter-Parliamentary Working Group to examine changes to the Crimea Autonomy Constitution, with regard to the empowerment of autonomy. We must pay tribute, this question has not arisen today, and this is not a matter of new power. For more than 10 years, including myself as a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I have not once addressed the central authorities: the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the initiative to engage in dialogue and to begin consideration of changes to the Crimea Constitution, which was not once promised to the Crimeans. I am sure that in the site that will be created by the two parliaments, we will be able to find the path of compromise and unity that is so necessary today. I am grateful to the leadership of the Crimea Supreme Council, the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its understanding and active position on all issues related to initiatives and issues of concern to the public of the Autonomous Republic today. With regard to consultations with the South-East Regional Councils, I am confident that the position of the Supreme Council will be clear. Today, all of us are united in the fact that, regardless of where we live, the language of communication and religion, we are all united, living in one country, must hear and respect each other. And this will be a real step towards a demonstration of unity, not in words, but in concrete actions, which our colleagues today have called for from different factions. I am sure that our strength is in dialogue and unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-04-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I would like to comment very briefly. Because, in fact, dialogue is important. Unity is overwhelming. At the same time, unfortunately, honourable national MPs, today's decision in Crimea and in the Crimea is not controlled by the Crimean Parliament, which sometimes adopts decisions that conflict with the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian law, but which forms, let's say, organs that, well, do not fit into the Constitution today. And we have to go back, I'm going to the Crimean Parliament, go back to the constitutional plane, and we're ready to sit down and talk to you seriously. But today, a decision in Crimea is taken by the military leadership of the Russian Federation. And that's the problem. Because today, unfortunately, the Crimean Parliament cannot decide on the return of Russian military forces to barracks. Let's be honest about this. And so the prerequisite for solving all the problems in Autonomy is, of course, the return of Russian military personnel to the part where they should be based. And leave Ukraine, especially the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. This is the main prerequisite for solving all problems, and I am convinced that we will solve them, dear colleagues, necessarily. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us consult you about our further work. We have this job on the committees. And really, that's what we have to do, because, you see, we have a very limited order of days of questions that can be voted on, but the questions that need to be voted on are much more. But they need to be prepared professionally on the committees. Parliament has long not worked on the directions set out in our parliamentary committees in extreme conditions, and serious laws need to be drawn up. At the same time, given the danger that remains today, taking into account the situation of our relations with the Russian Federation, taking into account the situation that is taking place today in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I would ask the national deputies not to leave the city of Kiev, so that we can gather our parliament at any time to make the necessary decisions, as we agreed with you. And this week we're working on committees, ready to meet here at any moment, in the session room, to approve the relevant important decisions. And we're taking a break with you by 10:00 next Tuesday. I hope that this time Parliament will work on a schedule and agenda that we will approve with you. Thank you.
