ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit down, we'll start the registration of the nationals. Please turn on the "Council" system and log in. [[10:05:16]] There are 295 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Traditionally, my dear colleagues, I'm informing all of you that we are celebrating the birthday of the national MP Ilyuk Artem Alexandrovich and Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, who is 60 years old today. (Applause) Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats and I want to inform you that tonight in the Donetsk region in Mariupoli, the terrorists were trying to capture the military for the purpose of taking possession of weapons and armor. After the third attempt to use automatic weapons, grenades, bottles of burning mixture, criminals were counterattacked by the National Guard. Three criminals were killed, 13 injured, 63 captured. Others have run and are now being chased by the police. [[Applause]] I would also like to inform you that the 25 separate Airborne Brigade, whose military has shown cowardice and given up arms, will be disbanded. And the military, who are responsible for this, will answer to the courts. The Ministry of Defence, the Attorney General’s Office, was assigned to do so. Dear colleagues, we have a very important and stressful schedule today. The only colleagues, I have now received a statement from the Party of Regions and Communists requiring the Rules to declare a recess. I want to ask the leaders of these factions: 15 minutes enough for a break? So you're only asking for 30 minutes under the Rules? Dear colleagues, I suggest you, dear colleagues, before we take a break, can we exchange speeches or do we exchange speeches after the break? Dear colleagues, the opposition insists on holding a faction leaders' meeting in my office. And according to the Rules, I cannot forbid them to make such a request. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the secretariat to inform the National Deputies that the meeting of the Supreme Council is continuing. And we will need to make very important decisions. I ask my colleagues to take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, while the national MPs are coming up, I would like to announce that, according to the statement and in accordance with part three of article 60, I am reporting the departure of National Deputy Volkova Alexandra Anatoliyovich from the MP's Party of the Regions. We have two factions -- the faction of the Party of the Regions and the Communist faction insisted on a break, according to the regulations, I invite the leader of the party of the region of Alexander Ephraim to announce the statement. Please. Lechchenka is given by Mr. Ephraim, national deputy of Lechchenk, please. People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u3	I'd like to start with a wish: "Good morning!" Unfortunately, I cannot say this until my countrymen are killed in the East. Ukrainians are killed, people are killed. Not criminals like you, Mr. Turkinov, you just called them. And people are killed by Ukrainian citizens who have gone under bullets for their beliefs. Just like they went under the bullets of the guys at Maidan Independence in Kiev. A hundred of them stayed on bridges in Kiev forever, and you came to power. You came to power by armed means, then you legalized your power by means of carcasses, traitors who betrayed the Party of Regions and their constituents. Yesterday you despised them, and today you were not begging for their services to become entrenched. When you came to power, you began to act as howlers and, with the help of your Western consultants, to bring German occupation orders here. In response, you received a Russian rebellion in the east of Ukraine and far from meaningless. The meaning of this rebellion is here, in this folder. Yesterday there was an assembly of deputies at all levels in the Donetsk region and I was instructed to read out the resolution, the appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Assembly of Deputies of all levels of the Donetsk Region, combining the demands of our countrymen, states that stabilization of the situation in the region can only be heard if central authorities wish to hear the voice of the inhabitants of eastern Ukraine. In expressing the views of our constituents, we are asking the question of amending the Constitution of Ukraine, where powers will be divided once and for all between the regions and the centre and the status of the second State in the Russian language. We are seeking new principles for the formation of regional authorities, direct public elections of regional and district council presidents, the formation of regional councils and district councils, the dissolution of regional and regional public administrations. This will be in the interest of all regions. People must choose the authority that governs them in the region. The autonomous budget policy within the unitary country and the distribution of taxes between centres and regions, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code by no less than three hundred votes, whoever comes to power, should not affect the financing of the regions. It is for the benefit of any region, any area that wishes to earn and spend honestly on its citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u4	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u5	Thank you. The process of amending the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine through a referendum and a vote in Parliament should be initiated immediately. I stress that the people require a referendum. Also at the Assembly of Deputies at all levels, we have drawn attention to and underline that it is unacceptable and illegal to attempt to use armed forces and special units to suppress protests in eastern Ukraine. Soldiers, you shoot your men, your citizens! Remember that! We believe that no Ukrainian citizen, a resident of the Donetsk region or any other citizen who has taken part in a protest for his beliefs should be held criminally responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, three minutes is given to the faction. I gave you one minute. How much time do you need? Please, half a minute, please, half a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u7	We insist on the adoption of the Act on the release of such persons from punishment at any stage of the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u8	I asked for half a minute. Give me more half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u9	We insist on the adoption of a law that liberates such persons who have protested in the East of Ukraine at any stage of the investigation. Ukrainian citizens must be equal in their rights to defend their political convictions. The same law that was passed with regard to the Maydan rallies in Kiev. [[B in m in s a l in]] Until our demands are met, the Party of the Regions is refusing to vote in favour of any kind.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. We need to make many important decisions. I just want to tell the representatives of the Communist faction Party. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, calm down! That their structures in the country protect the Ukrainian Constitution, the integrity of our country. And they are brutally opposed to those who are arrested who are trying to dissipate a country that is trying to engage in criminal terrorist activity with a weapon. (Applause) And those who defend Ukraine will always have the support of the Ukrainian people. And a huge request to those political forces that in Parliament consider themselves opposition, to determine whether they are with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people or they are with the aggressors who are fighting against our state. (Applause) Ladies and gentlemen, we have an announcement to make today. Look at how much time we've wasted on these negotiation processes. One minute from the factions, please log in. Colleagues, I'm acting in accordance with the Rules. Please, Freedom. People's MP Melnik passes the word to Oleg Tsagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Oleg Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u12	Glory to Ukraine! It is simply unacceptable to listen to similar things that have just been heard from this rostrum. Yes, we recognize the right of all residents to peaceful protest, we recognize that people can have their positions, and they can appeal to power. But comparing the actions of the divers, the terrorists, the separatists with yesterday's dignity revolution, with the action of the rallyers, the Protestants against the bandits, against the bandit regime, is cynical and unacceptable. Today, there is a clear question: an anti-terror operation has to be in operation, it has to be implemented. And to cover yourself with a living shield: women, children and pensioners are not only criminal, it is not only unfair, but it is contrary to the rules of the Geneva Convention, the Fourth Geneva Convention. And that means, and this is treated in international legislation as a war crime, and to cover the war crimes of Moscow terrorists, the invaders here, in Ukraine, are absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u14	is absolutely unacceptable. And here we have to put the watershed clearly: these representatives of the Party of Regions and Communists -- they're defending the interests of the Ukrainian State or they're defending the Kremlin's interests. Judging by their actions, this is a Kremlin agency. There the traitors shoot with their rifles, and here these traitors shoot with their buttons!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u15	People's Deputy Robber.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I must say from the faction that we are prepared to share the statement of all factions if there is a condemnation of separatism and an appeal to Ukraine's unity. We are willing to work for decentralization and work to make Ukraine a comfortable state for every citizen and every citizen. And I have to say from myself. Dear colleagues, take this as my official request to the Attorney General's Office. What's Igor Kaletnik doing in this room, who's sitting right here in the middle of us? This is the person who is responsible for January 16th! This is the man who made dictatorial laws that turned my state into North Korea in 20 minutes! He doesn't have to sit here!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u17	Please, People's Deputy Klitschko, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u18	Dear friends! Colleagues! I want to talk to everyone who's watching this broadcast on the "Rad" channel on TV right now. In fact, a few minutes ago, the meeting with the Head ended, and those statements that have just been made here from this rostrum are not in harmony with the spirit and mood of the meeting. The key issue to date is to stabilize the situation in the country. People who turn, regardless of the region in which they live, want full confidence and stability in the situation. They say, "Please put order in the country." Today, the country is crumbling. I am recently in Parliament, and I can clearly confirm that this room has begun to split the country. Where politicians in pursuit of their political goals kill the wedge on the issue of language. There's never been a question like that! And anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u20	You speak Russian, Ukrainian, Donetsk, Lviv, Ternopolis, Odessa, you are understood everywhere. No problem, people understand both Ukrainian and Russian. No, we need to raise that question and kill it. Please, please! I understand you don't need to politicize today's issue with languages. Yes, we must be able to decentralize power today, we must be able to: they want to speak Hungarian in the regions, they want to speak in the region in the local language, in the one, in the other, please. With regard to the State language, this is a separate issue. There's no doubt about it! We must compromise and compromise regional languages today in order to stabilize the situation in the country. And by radical statements, we put ourselves in the next round.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u21	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u22	We are entering another cycle of radicalization of the situation in the country. Our key task is to stabilize, restore order, calm, preserve the integrity and independence of our country. And that's an assignment, regardless of the party membership of each of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u23	Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u24	I give my word to my colleague Sergio Anatolyevich Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u25	Please turn on the microphone of the people’s deputy Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u26	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues, today we all truly understand the measure of responsibility that rests with all of us. The situation has indeed been brought to a close. Any unwary word, any reckless action can lead to serious burns and serious consequences. Unfortunately, we already have when the blood spilled. And we understand that there are several reasons for this. But one of the main things that lies here in this room is the cause of double standards, a double approach to addressing the same issues. And if we're talking about the fact that weapons shouldn't be playing in Ukraine today, it shouldn't be walking anywhere, starting in the city of Kiev. If we are talking about the need to liberate buildings, they must be released everywhere, given the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u28	And if we're talking about what we need to figure out today, how do these anti-terrorist operations carry out, shooting at residents living in neighbouring homes, using aviation, it's not clear why, at 2:00 a.m., over the people of the city of Mariupol?Oh, my God! And when we talk about the 17 wounded, in these lists of 17 wounded -- all the people of Mariupol, 2, really, the Doñaki have fallen, I think we need to, in order to find all of us a "thank you" and not to finally break Ukraine, sit down, calm down, take a head with two hands, walk away from the harsh rhetoric and make balanced decisions, stop the economic downfall of a country that is not just going down, and the country is going into economic abyss today! And tomorrow they will go out to the streets of their mother, who will not be able to feed their children, and then it will indeed be a rebellion! And we all need to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u29	Please, National Deputy Martinjak, Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u30	Give the word to Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u31	Please, Olesia Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u32	They say the separatists are like the Midianites. They don't. Another madman was buried on Monday, Anatoly Nechiporenko. On February 18, he was beaten in the head, fighting for his life. So, I'm telling you, he was cut off by the ducks, by the Sadducees, and cut off by the phalanx of his fingers when he was tortured in Marien Park. These people still don't sit on the jury, and they're in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lugansk right now. [[Applause]] Oh, my God! Let me remind you that in Kharkiv of the 65 arrests, 14 are former rabbits. And these people say they're freedom fighters now?Oh, my God! For what freedom? Tell me, where are they, the Donetsk or the Lugansk region, they're speaking under Ukrainian flags? Only under Russian! And that distinguishes them from the Midianites. This distinguishes them from those who fought for freedom. Stop fighting for the interests of the Russian Federation in Ukraine and then they will speak to you as equals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I can see two hands from non-fractionals, National Deputy Opanaschenka, please turn on the microphone. And Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u34	I'd like to answer Lewchenk's colleague about getting out of the faction. He did not do so much in his life to teach his deputies what to do. And the faction has to work so that people want to stay in it. As far as the situation in the country is concerned, I would like to say. What happens in the Council and that radical mood does not benefit the situation. People are dying. There have been riots and riots before, and now there are criminals as well, and there are peaceful people who have been deceived and taken to peaceful action. But they are required to hold a referendum. I believe that if the referendum does not raise the issue of the country's integrity and its tranquillity in Ukraine, it may need to be held. And the decentralization of power, I wouldn't want the authorities to make a mistake that was made by the past authorities. It's usurping power. If there are a number of elected deputies in Parliament, both portfolios and authorities should be distributed proportionally. Then there will be confidence in those who govern the country. And we will not tread upon the rakes that our country has already trodden upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u35	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to contact my fellow MPs from the faction of the Party of the Regions. Today, in Donetsk, at 6 p.m. in Lenin, Ukrainian citizens who want to live in a single independent unitary country hold a rally to unite the country. If, in fact, you are not in the country’s unity but, in fact, come to Donetsk, support the Ukrainians in Donetsk. Today, people in Donetsk, Kharkiv, are being persecuted for speaking Ukrainian! What did we live to see?Oh, my God! That's why I call upon all who, for the only Ukraine, who for the wholeness of Ukraine, the deputies from the regions, the deputies from other factions, to come to Donetsk today! Support the people of Donetsk who want to live in the only and independent Ukraine! At the same time, I would like to express my support to the Armed Forces, the law enforcement agencies that today reflect the aggression of the Russian Federation Armed Forces in the East. Those who help the invaders today are traitors. Everyone’s task.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u38	Every Ukrainian citizen's job today is to protect Ukraine. Women who produce children are brought under tanks behind their backs by divers with sniper rifles. They throw children under tanks and throw women, while cowards hide behind their backs. Shame! And these divers have to be eliminated. If the enemy does not appear, he must be destroyed. With the common people and with the people of Donbas, with the inhabitants of Luhansk, with the people of Kharkivsk, who want political rights that want decentralization, we are ready to talk. Here's our hand, we hear everyone. But I have one final question for the representatives of the Regions. Your gang Janukovich was in power for four years. Why didn't you give people decentralization? Why didn't you give people your taxes? Why didn't you take out the district administrations? What you didn't accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u39	Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u40	Just looting, looting, and looting. And today you say, give us everything. Give back everything you stole, and we'll give it to the people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I understand that we will have to make decisions and make responsible decisions. During the Conciliation Council, we discussed the preparation of our Parliament's statement, in which we will address all citizens, including the citizens who live in Eastern Ukraine, in order to have harmony and unity in the state. We will make clear our position on reforming local self-government. Let us express our position on the elimination of local administrations and the formation of executions by selecting them from local councils. We're not going to repeat the criminal steps that Janukovich's regime has taken with regard to the absoluteization of power. We're going to meet people. And in that, our principle is different. I'm the only one who'd like to ask my respectable colleagues. By 4 o'clock, while we're preparing an application for all of us to work in the hall, because Ukraine is expecting decisions from us, not just loud statements. So, honourable colleagues, I ask Parliament to start its work solely by its own profession, i.e. with regard to the adoption of relevant regulations and draft laws. The first question that we're going to consider right now is making a decision on the question under discussion. 4519, you remember, the draft decree on additional measures to strengthen Ukraine’s security in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation. We talked about the project. It's a project by the Orotyuk People's Deputy. We listened to the head of the committee, the Lithuanian National Deputy, and the rapporteur from the committee, the national deputy of Razwadowski, and agreed that we were taking this decision in an editorial that was clearly focused and formulated by the committee. Therefore, fellow believers, all we have to do is make a decision on this matter. You remember our arrangement. I ask, Your Honor, to sit in your workplace and I ask you to consider the adoption of the draft Decree (4519) on additional measures to strengthen Ukraine's security – on the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[11:42:26]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have a question regarding a package of laws related to local authorities in Kiev. This is a draft of the Act (1098) amending the Ukrainian Law on the election of ARC Supreme Council deputies, local councils and rural, rural and rural councils. You remember that there are two - way elections in cities of over 500,000 inhabitants. And we also have two laws, 4638, 3004, which apply to the amendments to the Ukrainian Capital Act, the city hero of Kiev. We talked to you yesterday about the possibility of batch voting of Laws 1098 and 4638. Vitaly Volodymyr Klitschko approached me and asked me to try to vote one at a time. Let's try the first law when we vote one by one, I don't deny that. In accordance with the Rules. In the event that we break the vote in the first place, then we'll try to vote by batch vote, as we agreed yesterday. So, dear fellows, I ask you first. So we can do it. Colleagues, pay attention! Ladies and gentlemen, let's stop walking around the hall. Everyone please come to the Parliamentary Room to make decisions. I ask you now to vote on the return to the subject, in accordance with Laws 1098, 4638, 3004. I ask Parliament to vote on the return to these issues, these laws. Please vote. [[11:44:42]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Region Party, 80 – Fatherland, 23 – Impact, 32 – Economic Development, 13 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Ukraine Company, 28. Dear colleagues, we can't, if we don't go back to these issues, we can't look at them. So I ask you, there will be Parliament's decision to return to this question once again, Colleagues, come on. There'll be an offer to come back to that question, I'm ready to ask. Please turn on the Microphone to the national MP, Kydi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u42	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, well, you can see that there are deputies and there is a need for a number of deputies. I ask you to turn, our faction refers to all the deputies, and first of all to the coalition deputies, to insert ballot cards, and during the vote don't pull them out, and don't roll the fool, or we work or express your position, if you don't agree. Don't make fun of Ukraine, don't make fun of the session hall. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I draw your attention to the fact that we now really have an opportunity to make a decision that is expected not only by the people of Kiev but also by most of our cities in Ukraine. But unfortunately, I don't see the willingness of the hall to vote on this important issue. I am convinced that today we will return to this issue when we return to it by voting, and we will make a decision accordingly. Dear colleagues! We also need to make decisions about the two laws that we discussed and agreed to vote, to make decisions about those laws, and we will do so today. Let me remind you of this law, 4574 and 2829. Let's first define by Law 4574, the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children, and the Employment of the Population Act (as regards the status of refugees). Dear colleagues, this is a very humane decision of the Supreme Council, which has brought in the Cabinet of Ministers, I ask that all national MPs, regardless of their political sympathies and signs, support this proposal. On the basis and in general there is a proposal to vote on this decision. I would like your colleagues to support the 4574 draft Act amending the Ukrainian Laws on the Framework for Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children. I'm asking for a basis and a general support. [[11:47:56]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. Next draft of the law. According to factions, please insist MPs. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 78, Vitalia Klicka is 37, Economic Development is 32."North Ukraine" -- 31, 35 -- "Freedom", 0 -- Company, 34 -- non-fractional. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Calm down, please! Dear colleagues, we also have to take a decision on the matter under discussion today, this is about the Law, Registration No. 2829, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Council for Television and Broadcasting. You remember the meaningful report by Mikola Tomenka. He asks for a small comment before the vote. Please turn on the Mikoli Tomenka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give us the opportunity to form the National Council on Television and Radio today, because there has been a conflict of two norms, and we, the Supreme Council, all the factions and MPs who are here, have no opportunity to start a competition and present our worthy candidates to form our four. So we proposed a legal solution that is supported by an absolute majority of both experts and experts. So, Alexander Valentine's Day, please, both in the first and in general, but with additions to the Transitional positions that Mikola Knieżicky read yesterday during the discussion as a co-author. Because there's a tool for how quickly we're going to start a competition if we support this bill and we're going to form a quarter of the Supreme Council in the same session hall, where all MPs will have the opportunity by rating vote to support the new members of the Nacrad.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, let us make a decision on the matter under discussion. It was discussed yesterday, I'll remind you. And now I'm asking for support on the basis of the whole bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting, registration number 2829. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Please determine how to vote. Please support as a whole. Please vote. [[11:50:28]] For 243 Thank you, the decision is made, for a total of 243 votes. By factions, please: 0 – Party of Regions, 81 – Fatherland, 37 – Impact, 33 – Economic Development, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 26. I want to ask you, dear colleagues, about Kiev, can we go back to this question? Let's give it a try. I ask you to go back to the subject of three legislative acts: 1098, 4638, 3004. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this issue. Please vote. [[11:51:24]] For 196 Dear colleagues, no decision taken. For 196. I won't bet any more today. The factions, please. 0 - Party of Regions, 81 – Fatherland, 19 – Impact, 28 – Economic Development, 12 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, 21 – non-fractional. I don't understand, dear colleagues. I'm not going to ask one question at a time, because that's a block question, and that's the deal we made with you. Please, Your Honor, to consider them one way at a time, you must first return to this consideration. They were in the package as alternatives, I can't break one by one. Dear colleagues, please, we're moving on to the second reading. Draft Law on Restoration of Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign. Please, the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Nazis and the International Relations of Paccan Valeriy Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, I'm calling the strike faction. We need the head of the Packaan Valeriy Vasilovich Committee. As long as Valery Vasilovich is wanted, we move on to the next question. Registration number 2050. Draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act on the improvement of the internal affairs system. Please, Head of the Committee on Legislative Protection. Kozemykin Andriy Anatoliyovich, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u46	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! On October 8, 2013, the Supreme Council decided to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act. The bill is part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Police Act, which establishes the obligation to compensate the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the costs associated with the maintenance of a higher education institution for graduates of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the event that they have terminated the study contract on a time-limit and for persons with the primary composition of internal affairs bodies released from service within three years of the completion of such a higher educational institution. I mean, if a person went to the Academy of Internal Affairs or to any college with a dream of serving in the internal affairs system, he got over it, and then somewhere along the way, he found some kind of, sorry, foreign earnings, ended up in college, wrote a report -- and got free. Because she learned and then got fired and didn't go to work for the job that money was spent on, and the efforts of the Ukrainian authorities, she had to pay it back. Here's the whole bill. I'm asking you to back me up. The committee supported the bill as a whole. Alexander Valentinovich, I wanted another one, using what I have, which I have a few minutes. I ask, however, not to forget today 4698: a bill amending the law on the legal status of states of emergency and the legal regime of the military state, which allows for the holding of presidential elections in the country or in certain areas of the military state, in order to preserve the integrity and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u47	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, do you understand the committee's proposal? In fact, it's a very short law. There is a suggestion to support it both in second reading and in general. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to sit in your seats, prepare for the vote, and support the whole of the 2050 Act on Amendments to Article 18 of the U.S. Police Act (to improve the internal affairs human resources system). Please, Your Honor, please support me, please vote. [[11:56:14]] For 224 Honorable fellow workers! I beg you, by the factions, please. Regional Party – 0.83 – Fatherland, 24 – Impact, 33 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 35.0 – Freedom, 35 – non-fractional – 21. Dear colleagues, I address you! It's a simple technical law. I realize that as we walk around the hall, we do not have time to approach our workplaces. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to stop walking, exercise needs to be done in the morning, before the beginning of Parliament's work. And now back to that question. Let's mobilize our efforts and support the militia, their supply. Please return to the 2050a issue. Please vote. [[11:57:13]] For 215 I'm so aware that the BRAD faction has decided not to vote. Please, by the factions. 0 - Party of Regions, 84 – "Fatherland", 7 – Impact, 34 – "Economic development", "North European Ukraine" – 30, "Freedom" – 35.0 – Company, 25 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues! Please turn on the microphone to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I'm addressing the strike faction. Among your representatives, your faction, there is a very important professional in the matter of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the organization of police work. This is Colonel-General Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, who is directly with me and the committee members -- with those who are really looking after the proper preparation of internal affairs professionals today, as well as allowing them to go to the police, he supported this bill. I think you should take an example from him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u49	Andriy Anatoliyovich, once again, I was a little distracted by the offer, please turn on the microphone of Cosemyanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u50	Alexander Valentinovich, I'd like to ask you again, the point is that this is a technical question. If the impact faction has an idea, let them express it. Let's get this straight. I'm the head of the committee, as well as the members of the committee who work in factions that work today from the impact faction. Why? Because Alexander Valentinovich voted unanimously in favour of this decision. There was no "against" and "restraint." So now we have to listen. If they have arguments, I'd like to know. And ask the question again for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Why isn't the faction voting for this issue? Is there a technical note, a political one? Dear colleagues! They have a note, but there is no record of the National Deputy Chumak. He'll come, he'll comment. Then we'll go back to that question. Now, please, National Deputy Packaan Valeriy Vasilovich has come to the hall. Please be in the committee chair permanently in the first place. The draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign is 0921. Please, Valery Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u52	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Law 0921 was introduced in the last year’s call to the Supreme Council. What's this about, what's this law about? This is the law on the restoration of the rights of deported peoples, namely the Crimean Tatar people. That is, the State of Ukraine commits itself to the restoration of all rights and security, the material security of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. Very many commissions under this law have been made in 60 amendments that the committee has been working on, and they have been rejected by national deputies, Haydosh Ishtvan Ferencovich. And we agreed to prescribe another piece of legislation. According to the committee’s consideration, the committee proposes that this legislative act be adopted on a basis and in general. 31 revisions included, 4 revisions edited. And if we want to go back face-to-face to the Crimean Tatar people, if we really want to help our citizens raise a spirit there, we have to accept this legislative act. With regard to the material security of the Crimean Tatar people. The Crimean Tatar Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and, in particular, Mustafa Djemilev, we agreed that we would return to this issue after the Crimea really belongs to the territory of Ukraine and the state of Ukraine. Please support this legislative act, because the Supreme Council has not been able to approve it for 15 years. Let us become that Supreme Council, that composition of the Supreme Council, who will actually adopt a legislative act concerning the Crimean Tatar people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, please, we are not discussing this issue, this is a question of second reading. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u54	Istvan Highdosh, a sovereign European Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today we are considering an important bill necessary to support Crimean Tatars. For consideration of this draft Law, in my second reading, I made appropriate amendments, as it was said, that would greatly extend the circle of persons to whom the law would extend. But given the difficult social political situation in Crimea and the adoption by the committee of the bill without amendment, also with the aim of adopting this law as soon as possible and supporting the Crimean Tatars, I withdrew my proposals. At the same time, I believe that we will also need to adopt a separate law on the rehabilitation and restoration of the rights of persons deported, interned in 1944, on the basis of the national totalitarian regime of Hungarians and other representatives of national minorities. I want to add another one. In November of this year, 70 years have passed since the start of the tragic events in the lives of the Hungarians, the Germans of Zacarpathia. Repression in 1944 To honor their memory, I remember them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, thank you. I think the committee will take this proposal into account. Now, dear fellows, I ask Mustafa Jamileva to turn on the microphone. He's a short-circuit. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u56	Dear National Deputies! The bill that we are discussing is one of the most plentiful, because it has been considered by the four callings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by the three presidents of the country. In Parliament he was registered several times in different versions and was finally approved by a constitutional majority, but he promised the head of state. The dramatic events of the last months gave this bill a new sound, a sound that we all had to hear from the first days of Ukraine's independence. I mean the immediate and complete restoration of the rights of the deported Crimean Tatar people and other deported citizens as a guarantee of peace and stability in the Crimea and in Ukraine as a whole. For decades then, the voice of the Crimean Tatars did not exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u57	Please let me finish for half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u58	was not heard by the political ambitions and games of the leaders of the state and the political powers who played their own political interests in the Crimea, forgetting the interests of citizens and the country. Now we all realized how wrong our thinking and actions were. While the Ukrainian elite lived torn away from the real goals, the enemies of Ukraine prepared plans to destroy our nation. Now it's obviously even the most involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u59	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u60	This bill, in modern conditions, is just one step in solving the pressing problems, the first of a series of other problems. We are obliged to take other steps, to take the full path of restoring historical justice as far as possible. living, affected by the Soviet Bolshevik regime, their descendants, and by those no longer in the world. I urge you all to make a choice in favour of Ukraine's better future and to ensure the future root Crimean people, part of the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I'm back. I see your hands up. I remind you, this is the second reading. We don't have a discussion on this. I gave the honorable Mustafa Jemiliev the opportunity to say because he is the author of this law. Dear colleagues, please put your hands down. There is a proposal with regard to the technical and legal drafting of the law. Because according to some articles, there are purely editorial corrections that will have to be made. The proposal is to support it in a second reading as a whole. No objections? I won't. Please vote, then, Your Honor. Please support me in my second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:06:18]] For 238. Decision taken. I thank the Supreme Council for making this important decision. And I'd like you to show the factions how the MPs voted. 0 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 80, 33 – Impact, 30 – Economic Development, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 31. Dear colleagues, we've had our views and positions scattered. I thought we had been resting for an hour, and we could work without interruption. And many deputies say that they should have 15 minutes to take a break. How do we work all the time? No breaks. Thank you. Only, dear colleagues, I ask you, once and for all we work without breaking up and working without interruption, not only in theory, but also in practice. Dear colleagues, I beg you, we are now approaching Law 2138, but I ask Vitaly Stanislavovich not to go to the rostrum because the government came to me and asked. Well, tell me, yes, inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u62	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u64	I would like to remind you that the bill was tabled by the previous government in connection with the adoption in 2012 of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. When an electronic reverse auction procedure was introduced. As early as April last year, our committee prepared a bill for consideration in a second reading. But until now, the prescribed draft law has not been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On April 10th of this year, the Supreme Council approved in a new edition the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. There is no procedure for electronic reverse auctions. That is, after the entry into force of the new Ukrainian Act on State Procurement, the draft Ukrainian Law (registration number 2138) will become obsolete. We suggest that we postpone consideration of this bill, and the next committee will propose that it be withdrawn in connection with the loss of relevance. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two options: We may not consider it at all, but we may put it in place and not vote. Is it the committee's proposal to put it to a vote or just take it off and don't waste time? Take it off and don't waste time. I mean, by procedure, they ask you to put it down. Okay. I'll make sure we don't have any extra material on this. Please, this is Bill 2138, the committee is proposing to withdraw it. We'll take it down quickly by voting. Please determine from this Law 2138 on the adoption of it as a whole. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[12:09:36]] For-48 The decision is not taken. To withdraw the bill as suggested by the committee. Dear colleagues, the following question concerns the draft Law amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for illegal mining. The chairman of the committee will report to Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement knows this problem, how much abuse goes, how much corruption, the crime around this illegal mining, especially in Eastern Ukraine. Please, Andrew Anatolovich report, registration number 2855. Dear colleagues, the faction of the regions asks me to approach this faction and speak to them for 10 minutes. I'm asking Ruslan Volodymyrovich to take the lead for me, I'll be in the hall in 10 or 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies! By the way, what was just voted out was rejected by that bill, the Supreme Council did the right thing because it had a bad history. In his day, he was voted in Banks when some national deputies gathered separately from this place. On 19 November 2013, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to adopt draft Law 2855 on amending article 240 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code (to increase responsibility for illegal mining)" on the basis of a mandate of the Main Committee to prepare it for second reading. Article 240 of the Criminal Code is drafted in a new edition. Such changes are necessary to ensure that our useful mines are adequately protected by criminal law. And both the mines of state importance and the local meaning. For example, sand if the fossil size of the local value is significant. In accordance with the Rules, nine proposals were made to the Committee by the legal entities of the legislative initiative, the national deputies of Ukraine. These are the proposals made by the national deputies Leluk and Gruszewski. The 5 amendments were rejected by the Committee as being editorial and did not significantly affect the content of the bill. Four amendments are included, two of which are partial. As a result of its consideration of its meeting, the Committee on Legislative Security adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill No. 2855 to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm sorry. There are repairs, let's go after the repairs. There's a second reading. I'm sorry, Mr. Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u68	The point is, if there's a question. I see there's no one in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u69	We're going after the repairs. It's all gone. Let's take a walk so we don't have to ask questions. Amendment number 2. National Deputy Chub. Any suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u70	None. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u71	None. Number 3. National Deputy Chub.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u72	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u73	None. Number 6. People's deputy, Gerzhov. Any notes? None. Number 7. People's MP Kupczak. Do you want to talk? Again. None. Amendment eight, national deputy Sharov. Is there a need to discuss? None. So, respectable national MPs, all of them. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u74	But it's not the author of the amendment!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u75	Oh, you are not the author of the amendment. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u76	There's a rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u77	Dear people's deputies, as amended, we walked. There is a proposal for the committee to adopt this bill in second reading and in general. So once again, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to the hall, and we're going to go to the vote. Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] We've already announced. We've already announced. See, I'm good? Quick, quick. Honourable National Deputies, we put to the vote the draft Law amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on increasing responsibility for illegal mining, registration number 2855, second reading, and in general. Please vote. [[12:14:16]] For 190 Decision Not Adopted Factions please: Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 75, Vitalia Klicka – 19, Economic Development – 14, Sovereign European Ukraine – 24, Freedom – 35, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 23. We turn to the next bill, registration number 2049, the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts (to improve the settlement of real estate relations). May I have the head of the committee of profile, please, Deputy Lapina. Second reading, reverend association. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u78	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Xenia Leapina, Party for Ukraine, faction of Fatherland. The bill is ready for second reading. A lot of amendments have been made. To date, 55 amendments have been made. Part is counted, part is rejected. We can vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u79	Amendment No. 13 of the People's Chamber of Commerce is rejected. Is there a need to discuss? None. Amendment No. 14 of the People's Deputies of Gerzhov. Is there a need? None. Amendment No. 16 of the People's Deputy of Agaphon. Is there a need to discuss? None. Amendment No. 19 of the Kulinić People's Deputy. Is it? Yes. Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u80	Thank you. National MP Kulinic, Economic Development Group. I insist on voting for support rejected by the Main Committee, amendments 19 and 26. In particular, amendments are proposed to remove the rules regarding the registration of derived rights in a special section of the State Register. If the amendments are not taken into account, the rental information for these sections will continue to inhibit the full completion of the State Register. So we're artificially creating another register of exclusive derivative rights for an indefinite period and with uncertain conditions for the transfer of this information in the future. Secondly, in order to register a derivative right, i.e. rents, the registrar has to be able to verify that there is a primary right, i.e. ownership rights. Thus, nothing prevents the registration of both primary and secondary rights so that landowners do not pay twice for confirmation of the objectively existing right in the State. Please support these adjustments. In the event of their rejection, the Economic Development Group will not be able to vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u81	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u82	Why was it rejected? Since we have come to the conclusion in the working group, if there is no proper registration in the additional chapter, the implementation of derived rights and property rights will not be adequately protected. So we think that this amendment should be rejected, approved in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to confirm Amendment No. 19 of the People's Deputies of Kulinić. Please vote. [[12:17:51]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 20 of the People's Deputy, Omeljanovic. Is there a need to discuss? None. Amendment number 22, People's Deputies Sold. There's no wish. Amendment number 24, People's Deputy Lapina. There's a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u84	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u85	Amendment number 26. Kulinić, a national MP, insisted on her vote. Should you turn on the microphone or put to the vote? I'm betting on the vote on amendment number 26, National Deputy Kulinic. I'd like to make a statement, distinguished national MPs. [[12:18:39]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 27, People's Deputy Lapina. There's a need.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u86	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u87	None. Amendment 33, People's Deputy Omeljanovic. Is there a need to bet? None. Amendment number 47, People's Deputy Kulinic. Is there a need to bet? None. Amendment number 48, People's Deputy Zelik. Is there a need to bet? No, I'm filming. Amendment 49, People's Deputy Voropeyeva. Don't insist. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, may I comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u89	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u90	This is a very important amendment that may now result in an inefficient vote in the hall. I point out that this is the most controversial of the bill. It's about the forced transmission of the register books that are now in the BTI to the organs of the single registry. In fact, this standard has how many pluses, so many minus. On the one hand, we all understand the need to transfer the electronic form of information to the register to fill it, we realize that this is a big job. On the other hand, there is a conflict with the BTI. We conducted working groups on a number of occasions, listening to them. And in today’s situation, the forced withdrawal of these books in BTI can have negative consequences, particularly the loss of register information, which will then be reversed and restored with great difficulty. So there's both the pluses and the minuses, that's the norm. I know.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u91	Ms. Xenia, so she's rejected, the author doesn't insist. Let's move on. Amendment No. 50 of the Agaphon People's Deputy. Is there a need to discuss? None. Amendment 51. None, does not insist on the author. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gone through all the amendments that have been rejected. We can ask questions for a vote. Yeah? So, honourable national MPs, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of immovable property (Registration No. 2049) in the second reading and in general. People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[12:21:28]] For 180. The decision is not approved. Please, by the factions. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 70, Vitalia Klicka - 27, Economic Development - 5, Sovereign European Ukraine - 26, Freedom - 31, Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 21. Dear National Deputies! By procedure? Ministry? Please turn on the microphone, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a great request. This project is extremely important, which will allow us to legislatively address all the issues that arise in our citizens today in the area of real estate registration. If there's a problem in the room right now and I don't have enough votes, then I have a request: either move the vote to another day (this is the best option), or then re-read the second reading. But anyway, you can't ruin all the work that's been done right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u93	Once again, the second is your offer. Deputies! Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u94	Dear fellows, our constituencies! Well, the situation, to the great shame and to the great shame, has been that virtually there are no votes in the Supreme Council today, so that you can adopt productively either the most important laws that are being baked today, literally, by society and which are capable of solving any problems. Once again, this has happened in fact: the communists are gone, the regionals are almost gone. Because of this, Mr. Head, I propose the only sane solution. Let's vote, there's today in the program of our two commission investigators who need only 150 votes. And the rest is useless work. We're just pounding water in our feet, and we can't really vote. And you're powerless here, and we, the ones sitting in the hall, are powerless, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal that has come -- to put the second vote again. Is that accepted? Please, strike party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u96	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The noble Ukrainian people! Once again, we have faced a difficult situation where there is no one in the Council to enact laws for ordinary citizens. I've introduced a bill that actually needs to be changed to the Constitution of Ukraine, and in five walks, the people's deputies will be deprived of their mandate. But I've come across, honourable Ukrainian citizens, that it's very difficult to collect even 150 signatures in support of my initiative here in the Supreme Council. I've decided that after the holidays I'll set up at the entrance to the Supreme Council Hall, I'll put my assistant on camera, and we'll shoot those who support these things, and those who pass by, and show them to all the Ukrainian people. Because further with such discipline, it is simply not possible to work without responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u97	Thank you. And yet, Mr. Kaplin, you're making a proposal from the faction under this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u98	Return to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u99	A few suggestions were made to the Society. The proposal is to go back to the vote, the proposal is to re-read the second reading, let's do it in the process of how the proposals came. And Kozemyakina, please turn it on. And let's get to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u100	Dear Russian Volodymyrovich! There have been bills that have been reported and that are equally incomprehensible, no decisions have been made, no votes voted. So I also propose that we vote exactly as we have just proposed to vote on these bills. Because I understand that the coalition allows me to increase criminal responsibility for illegal mining in Ukraine today. So you can get illegal sand, coal, clay, anything, right? And for that, to be unpunished. If it's today, I'm sorry, well, that's how our colleagues agree, that's bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u101	I got it. After all, we go on offer. Let me put it again, get back to that vote. And to draft the bill registration number 2053, to amend article 12 of the Ukrainian Law, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Society, are there any proposals for a bill? We'll walk on it. It is a second reading, a respectful association. Again. You have an offer for what. What are the options? I'll read you some options. You rejected this bill. You can: (a) suggest rereading, return, or propose to return to this bill. Dear National Deputies! What are some other suggestions? No suggestions yet? What suggestions? Let's vote on these. Mr. Tomenko, do you still have an offer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I propose. Dear colleagues! Let's take a real look at what's going on in the Supreme Council. I suggest we keep it simple. 30 minutes to take a break. Leaders of MP groups and factions, especially coalitions, should be consulted. Walking through the bill. It is quite obvious that a few bills, though 15 times they have become, will not be adopted today 226. And post-vote bills that are by consensus agreed within the coalition. And vote them on Thursday. Perhaps some bills will be agreed with our colleagues from today’s opposition. Because, well, that's funny, we're going to vote 20 times and not get 226 votes. So what I'm suggesting is that 30 minutes of recess, heads of MPs and factions are gathering, clarifying the agenda, and we're voting and discussing those bills that are currently supported by the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u103	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill's proposals have arrived. Any more suggestions on the Moshensky bill? Please. But I'm talking about the bill, or I'll ask you to turn off the microphone if we talk about other things. We're talking on the bill. So, please, distinguished national MPs, no agitation. Please, People's Deputies of the Moshensky and let's proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, especially now I am addressing the Communists and the Party of the Regions, show Donbass how you love Donbass. You know how these diggers have soiled our land. I very much ask you to show your position as you fight, how you love your people, how you obey the orders of your constituents. If you don't, you're just covering these trenches. It's a test for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u105	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, all who want their proposals. There are suggestions, we've heard them. Let's go to the vote. Thus, honourable national MPs have come up with a proposal for a draft Act (No. 2049) to amend some Ukrainian legislation (to improve the settlement of immovable property relations) – to return to the second reading. People's deputies please identify themselves. Please vote. [[12:30:05]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 70, Vitalia Klicka – 27, Economic Development – 27, Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, Freedom – 34, Company – 0, non-fractional – 18. Please, Yatzenka, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, we've had such a vicious practice for about a month now that we haven't voted once again, let's do it again, 25 times, 30 times, until we rape the hall here and so forth. I have a very simple offer. Vote, so please, in September of the next session, you can take the new procedure for first reading and so on. And there's no need to rape the hall. It's not about what the bill is about, it's about what's wrong. And what's forming is this position, so let's do it again, then maybe even more points and so on and so on and so on and so forth. You don't have to do that. Let us work properly under the Supreme Council Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u107	Thank you. The whole question. Next question. Let's move on to the next question. The draft Law (Registration No. 2053a) is being discussed in the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act (on subjects that constitute an increased environmental hazard) (second reading). Please report: First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u108	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! National Deputy Lukashuk, 187 constituency, Hmelnicki To implement paragraph 2 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of October 10, 2013, on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act (for objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard). A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster was prepared for the second reading of a bill amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Auditing (for objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard). The purpose of the bill is to introduce an environmental audit in the event of liquidation or exit from the operation of enterprises that carry out activities that pose an increased environmental risk. During the preparation of the draft for consideration in the second reading, 8 amendments have been processed, 3 of which are included, 5 being proposed to be rejected. The bill is made up of observations by the chief legal authority. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Act on Amendments to Article 12 of the Law on Environmental Auditing (for objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard), registration number 2053a, to be adopted as a second reading and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u109	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the amendments. Amendment number one, People's Deputy Tears. Is there a need to discuss? Don't you insist? Don't insist. Amendment number two, national deputy sold. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number six, national deputy sold. Don't insist. Amendment number seven, national deputy of Yavorowski. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Amendment No. 8, People's Deputy Sold. Doesn't it insist on a national MP? Don't insist. Dear National MPs, as amended, we have spoken, all the amendments discussed. Why don't we make a signal vote, see if we have any support in the hall? So we don't have the same thing as the previous vote. Ladies and gentlemen, will there be no objection if we try to vote? I'm betting on a bill on amendments to article 12 of the Ukrainian Environmental Audit Act (for objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard), registration number 2053a. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[12:35:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not approved. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 40, Hit by Vitalia Klicka - 2, Economic Development - 8, Sovereign European Ukraine - 12, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 13. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the proposals for this bill? Seconds, Sergey Mishchenko, Pinzenik, and Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u110	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. The Headman now has three options for resolving these issues. First, keep asking and no one will go through these questions. The other one. That's what Mikola Tomenko offered -- a very good offer. Because the question is, are there Communists here and are there no regions here? I think we should ask ourselves, who signed the coalition, including me, which is 257, or how many deputies are there, why are we here, and the other 227 deputies are not here from the coalition? So the question before the coalition is, to throw everything at the neighbors. And the third option is yours. This is what we did yesterday and the next day when we discussed the matter and then asked after four o’clock, whether on Friday or on another day of voting, choose from three.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u111	Thank you. People's MP Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! This law has only a good name and no more. Please state the environmental threat of renting state and municipal property. What, though, did this object pose a threat to rent? What is the environmental threat of privatizing objects? Until the object was privatized, he did not pose a threat. I was speaking on the first reading of this bill and I proposed not to adopt this bill because I think this bill had one purpose, someone was creating a business by adopting this bill. So our job is to reject this bill and not vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u113	National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support the chairman right now. The law is the law. He's bad or he's good, but he needs to be done. Therefore, we must abandon the wrong, illegal practice: the bill is put to the vote, the bill does not raise the necessary amount, it is again put and put to the vote. That's not right. There's the Rules Act, and you, Mr. Ruslane, are doing the right thing: you're reviewing the Bills according to the Rules. If they do not get the required number of votes, then the deputies or the persons who do not want to vote will be able to do so. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen. Turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! Our group did not support the vote on this bill. Because the bill essentially introduces additional problems for entrepreneurs, for manufacturing. In fact, it is proposed to introduce additional environmental audits, the introduction of new production, and the elimination of production in case of business termination. I mean, it's actually an additional opportunity for environmental authorities to come and check the business, especially if you're building a new enterprise, you're gonna have to get in the cash register and go make a deposit. Secondly, I suggest you do, Mr. Chairman, we see the situation. There are key, normal laws. The reason is that two factions have to agree on two key bills related to the elections in Kiev. Let's still take a break, maybe let the faction leaders agree, and we'll start voting normally, because today there are really dozens of laws that are extremely important to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u117	People's MP Ilik, and we're closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u118	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121st constituency. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Mr. Ruslan, I have a specific proposal: please conduct the re-registering of the deputies who are currently in the room, and if there is sufficient quorum for decision-making, then we are moving in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no quorum in the hall, our meeting is now illegal. This is not a plenary meeting then, but it is a regular assembly of national deputies. So the proposal is simple and understandable. Re-registration. If there are enough deputies in the room, we can make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u119	I'll give you an answer right away. There are now 247 national deputies registered. There's plenty, you don't even have to re-register. Dear National Deputies! Would you agree, after all, to an offer that came from the National MPs so that we don't carry our work beyond our borders? And did they speak and then postpone the vote after lunch? Can we do that? It's possible. Then we close the vote on this issue and move it to lunch. Mr. Pinzenik, you've just come out of this question. Twice on one question. What are the problems in that regard? You've just made a statement, you've made your offer. I'm just asking you a question in the hall, an offer, thank you. Dear National Deputies! We've discussed it. Please. Okay, we'll do it differently. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may finish this, I have given you my word. Please allow me to hold the session. You're preventing me from doing this right now. Thank you. I heard your offer. You've made your offer and you've made your offer, thank you. So, honourable national MPs, there are several suggestions on how to conduct our session right now. Please, representative of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u120	I can't quite agree with the People's Deputy Pinzenic that it's some kind of lobbyist law. Because when an enterprise is eliminated or leased to a government, there are residues of toxic substances. It's radiation waste, it's salt, which, for disposal and decontamination, requires a lot of money. That's why I'm counting on this expertise. And be determined, and be obliged to eliminate environmental consequences on these issues. That's why I think the law is necessary. And I ask everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, what is the committee offering?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u122	The committee suggests consulting, meeting with factions, because there are no votes, there are no national MPs. Assemble all the deputies, consult with the factions’ leaders and continue with the plenary meetings when national deputies are present to provide an objective picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u123	There is no such form of vote. So I'm going to the committee, what's your offer? The committee decided to vote. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Auditing of Objects that pose an Increased Environmental Hazard is on the vote. Registration number 2053 on second reading and in general. People's deputies are requested to identify themselves. [[12:44:10]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 13, Impact - 0, Economic Development - 17, Sovereign European Ukraine - 6, Freedom - 34, Company - 0, non-fractional - 8. Next bill. No. 2183. Draft Act amending the Water and Land Codes of Ukraine on Water Fund Land. I would like to welcome the Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Glazunov Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u124	Honourable National Deputies, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on second reading, are being introduced the draft Law amending the Code of Lands and the Water Code of Ukraine (registration number 2183a of 31.05). In 2013, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the law is to resolve problems with the establishment of the boundaries of coastal protection strips of water objects, as well as to clarify and harmonize the relevant standards of the Ukrainian Code of Land and the Code of Water. It is proposed to amend article 88 of the Ukrainian Water Code and article 60 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which would allow the boundaries of coastal protection lines of water objects to be established without the development of separate land projects. I'm going to notice that the development of these projects requires a lot of money and a fairly difficult process of setting up coastal protection lanes, and this in turn leads to virtually nowhere to be installed, and the maintenance of the business regime in these areas becomes a fiction. The bill also provides that coastal protection strips of water objects will be installed within the populated areas, using urban documentation and land administration documentation. The committee invites the Supreme Council to support the draft law and to adopt it in a second reading and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u125	Thank you. Let's go to the repairs, please. Amendment number one, People's Chamber of Tears. Is there a need to discuss? None. Amendment 3, People's Deputy Tears. Is there a need? Amendment number five, People's Deputy Tears. Is there a need to discuss? None. Amendment number six, national deputy sold. Is there no need? None. Amendment number nine, People's Deputy Tears. Do you mind? Excuse me, 9 is 9. Philippe, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u126	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I don't mind that the Committee's decisions have been rejected, but I would like to draw your attention now to the fact that the proposed draft for the second reading creates an obvious conflict of documentation. And that is exactly what article 88 refers to. I want to point out that we need to understand what we need to develop first: urban or land-based documentation, or both at the same time. If the building is first built, then it doesn't get into the Earth cadastre -- and as a result, citizens get an extraction of their own area, where they don't see the boundaries of the coastal strip. Because I'm suggesting how to get out of this situation? There's part three of article 120. We can rule out this conflict now, so there's no nonsense. And on the basis of article 120 of part three, delete from part seven, part eight, which is currently under discussion, the Water Code, the word "city-building documentation" in an appropriate contrast. So we're going to give a person the opportunity to get a normal extraction of their own land plots. I'm asking you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, the committee. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u128	First of all, you're not the author of the amendment, and let's work on the Rules. This is the second reading, the amendment does not deny, you make your proposal. You could submit them to the committee, review and accept them, or not accept them. This does not apply to this amendment, you are not the author. And don't violate the Rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u129	Thank you. Amendment No. 11 of the P.O. of Gruszewski. Don't you insist? There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment No. 13 of the people's MP, Tears. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 14, People's Deputy Tears. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 15, People's Deputy Tears. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 16, People's Deputy Tears. Don't you insist? Don't insist. 17, P.O. Gruszewski. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 19, People's Deputy Tears. Don't insist. Amendment 20, National Deputy Gruszewski. Don't insist. Amendment number 22, People's Deputy Tears. Don't insist. Amendment 23, People's Deputy Tears. Don't insist. Amendment number 24, National Deputy Sold. Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed all the amendments that have been rejected, and the committee has reported on this issue. We can be sure. The Committee's conclusion is to be accepted as a basis. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u130	And in general. On the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u131	I have a conclusion to approve, second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u132	So this is the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u133	On the basis and in general. So, respectable national MPs, your attention! The draft Act amending the Code of Water and Land of Ukraine" (for the land of the water fund), registration number 2183a, on the basis and in general, in the second reading and in general. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:50:41]] For-79 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 15, Hit by Vitalia Klicka – 0, Economic Development – 17, Sovereign European Ukraine – 4, Freedom – 33, Ukrainian Company – 0, non-fractional – 10. Next bill, number 3061, 3238. The chairman of the committee has asked to be removed from the agenda. Am I making the right formula? Please include a microphone to the Head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee of Kaletnik Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u134	Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! These are two bills that benefit our ordinary citizens, and they are exempt from paying for the registration of state land, our common citizens, people. So I would like to ask the chairman, by the Rules, to postpone the consideration of these bills for a later period. Now take them off the table, one and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u135	Thank you. We're taking it off the table. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. Draft Law, Registration No. 1016, amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Enforcement of Housing Rights of Guests" (to extend the right to housing for military personnel, employees of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs). Second reading. Welcome to the statement of the Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Saldo Vladimir Vasilovich. Please report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! In view of the fact that I do not see the possibility of this bill being voted on. I have an offer to take it off and see when people are in the room. Because it's very important for it to be approved. He had a discussion on our committee. All adjustments are included. There were six amendments. Counting five. So I'm talking to the author, let's do it better. Talk about it now? Well, according to the Rules it is not possible, so I propose not to vote today, but to vote when people are in the room. Let's move it. I suggest we postpone the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u137	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other suggestions on this issue? None. Turn on the mic for Mishchen Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! You remember that in 270 votes, we passed this law, which allows military personnel and others who carry pursuits to compare those who do not wear these drives, who have the right to privatize their rooms in dormitories. Now it's a strange situation. What if we have to support the military at this time, now we're going to move it somewhere for an unknown term? So I think that's how, if you want, if you vote, we'll see who votes. Or the second option is to discuss it, because all the amendments are included, and vote it at 4:00. Because this is provided for by the Rules. We had already done what was discussed, and today it was, we voted after lunch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u139	The author of the bill, Sergei Mishchenko, a national MP, suggests that we discuss this issue and move it to 16 hours. Do I get it right? Can we follow this procedure? We can, right? So I propose now, we conclude with the bill's author that we now discuss this issue, and after the evening session we put it to a vote. At that time, the representative of the committee, Saldo Vladimir Vasilovich, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u140	I've made a brief report, your honorary colleagues, on the bill discussed on the committee's profile. All the amendments proposed are included. Therefore, the position of the committee is to ask Parliament to support it in a second reading at 4:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u141	One Amendment No. 5 of the Lithuanian People's Deputy is not included. I would like to ask if the National MP insists on discussing this amendment. Don't insist. Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments are taken into account, they are edited and one is rejected, the amendment does not insist. Is there a need for the drafter? None. We will then, at the insistence of the drafter of the bill and the committee of profile, postpone the vote for 16 hours to the evening meeting. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the next draft law of the day (registration number 4389) draft Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons Who Have Been Condemned (second reading). I would like to make a statement to the head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice, Mr. Irina Valeriev. Is there a reporter in the room?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u142	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rule of Law and Justice considered, at its meeting on 26 March 2014, a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Persons Unlawfully Condemned and Decided to Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Adoption of a Bill on Second Reading and Overall as the Law of Ukraine. To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice revised the bill to take account of proposals and observations made by legal entities. In the process of preparing for the second reading of the bill, two amendments were made by the legal entities that were taken into account as a result of the consideration. Please consider this bill and vote for it. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u143	Thank you. All the amendments are counted. We can put this bill to the vote. Any comments, any suggestions from the national MPs? The committee, what are your suggestions? Put in a second reading and in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u144	Well, I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft law on the rehabilitation of persons who have been unlawfully convicted. — Registration No. 4389. Vote in second reading and in general as proposed by the committee. People's deputies please identify themselves. Please, stop, please. Please turn on the Sobolje microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u146	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I have come to the conclusion that we have decided on all the bills to discuss and to vote at 4 p.m. Well, you see, we're about to fail this bill. I have a request, now to discuss how we did it yesterday in the second half, and at 4:00, we're all going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u147	Okay. Dear Society, if there is such a will in the hall, we can now begin to work in such a format. In order to discuss the bill now, and at dinner at the evening session, they would vote. Then I ask for the next bill of procedure (0927 registration number) of the draft Act amending article 35 of the master procedural code of Ukraine (for reasons of exemption from evidence). Second reading. I would like to make a statement to the head of the Committee on the Rule of Law and Justice of Germany, Mr. Leonid Alexandrovich. Is there a reporter? Yemen is please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered at its second reading session a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 35 of the Master’s Procedural Code (for reasons of exemption from evidence). The purpose of the bill is to bring article 35 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine into line with article 61 of the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine and article 72 of the Code of Administrative Justice. The bill proposes to deal more clearly with the application of the judiciary*. That is to say, circumstances established by a judicial decision in a civil, economic, or administrative case other than those established by a decision of the arbitral tribunal that has gained legal power will not be proved in other cases involving the same persons or persons who have already been established. I would like to point out that during the drafting of this bill, there were 10 amendments to the second reading that were taken into account and taken into account by the committee. I want to point out that with 90 percent of anything, only one amendment of the national MP Salovarov* has been rejected is not a key. I think if the national MP insists we can explain the position of the committee here. But given that the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority had also called for a bill without notice, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it adopt a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Please support the decision of the Committee on Justice and the Rule of Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, are there any questions or suggestions to follow through on the amendments? No suggestions. I mean, the committee is ready to support it. Is that what I'm saying? How will we vote? After 16 hours to support the decision with the required number of votes. I've got the position. Dear colleagues, let's come up with proposals after the second reading. We only have two projects left, and then we'll make decisions. Please, 1076, draft of the Social Television and Radio Act. It's a very important question. Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, an extremely important, principled bill that has been pursued by the Ukrainian public and the community since the creation of an independent Ukraine. I want to say in part that we are on the committee, as we continue the tradition of working on the previous compositions of the committees and the media community, we have come up with a version of the second reading, where, I think, by relative consensus, if not absolute between the people working in the media sphere, among those who are dealing with such issues in the government and among the members of the committee of all factions, there has been a compromise on how we will work. The absolute majority of the rights, all of them in practice, were introduced by a group of national MPs Tomenko, Abdulin, Bagraev, Bondarenko, Heratchenko, Dove, Knieżicky, Kondratjuk, Miroshnichenko, Raupov, Stec, Shevchenko, Andry, I mean. So this is the 12 deputies who agreed, all the factions represented, then there were no MP groups. Everything we do here. In fact, what is the Social Television Law? This is a law that defines the beginning of the creation of social television. There will be many obstacles and problems on the way to its creation, but we cannot predict in the law how this will happen. So it's very obvious that further thinking about how we're going to create two channels of social television, three channels of social radio, we're going to go back, I think over and over again, to improve and improve existing legislation. It is fundamental today that the previous authority that declared the willingness to create social television, and the new authority that came to power for the second time, spoke of social television to make this start today. The only moment we've had in the last month's debate, since we've had some changes in the structure of the Supreme Council, without touching any of the bill's paragraphs, we're only suggesting that we edit part of the first article 8. It says that there are 14 members and that there is one representative of the MP factions. Since we have groups here, it's a principle for everyone to be represented, it's suggested to just take 14 down, maybe in the next Supreme Council there will be 5 or 10 MP groups, and put it in the editor's office, they're going to be one of the MP factions and groups. And so each MP and faction will offer the most respected, most authoritative man who will enter the supervisory board of future social television. And the second amendment. As a result of the discussions of the government, the National Funding Company, we offer to clarify a few things. First. We proposed in the law that the government should not press public television, and that the public television management should not run to Minfin, to the money - adding governments, give the money away. We've agreed that we're fixing a minimum government funding of 0.2 percent of the expenditure of the U.S. state budget. In fact, it's the same money that TV gets, no more today, but now they're going to beat the thresholds of a single number of officials, and it's clearly going to be set in a separate line. Instead, the second position, after an equally long, lengthy discussion, everyone understands that for a full channel, where documentary films, where Ukrainian films, and so on, this amount is not that big. So we decided not to take the commercial completely, but we're offering a compromise, supported by all of us, that we're allowing to leave the advertisement by limiting it to 5 percent of the actual language over every astronomical hour. It's three times less than on commercial channels, and most importantly, on a social channel, as it starts to say, it's forbidden advertising, the sponsor's information -- the producer of alcoholic beverages and beer, the drinks that are made on its base. So the alcohol is going to be taken completely, and we're going to leave 5 percent -- a third of the commercial advertising -- so that the channel doesn't just develop at the expense of the state. With such amendments, the committee, the copyright group, the media community is asking to vote. And I hope that at 16 o'clock we will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u151	Please, Hanna Herman asks for a word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the second bill is no less significant and no less.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u153	Mr. Tomenko, just one remark. I'd like to talk to you about a group representative. Do not make the mistake we made when we thought we would always be in power. The MPs, they're with you today, tomorrow, with us, depending on where the wind is going. And they will always influence public television and will always be on the side of power. If we do what we did: just from the MP factions, and these are the constant structures that don't change depending on the wind blowing, we'll have a guarantee that there will always be justice on public television. I ask you very much to think about these parliamentary groups that today are yours, tomorrow are ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u154	The situation here is that we generally, the authors of the amendments, are critical not only of the MP groups, but of all the MP factions. They're going to be in the minority in the supervisory council, the ratio of power, so to speak, between the media community and representatives. It's not MPs, it's not officials, it's only public officials, professionals. It's going to be nine members of the public and one of these factions and groups. If this is, for example, with groups, this is today 7, this 9. So most of it is equal to the media community. So, in principle, we don't see a threat, but we come from what is the structure of Parliament, obviously, we need to bring the right structure to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Next law, Mikola Volodymyrovich, and we'll take the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the next bill on reforming public utilities is as historic and significant as the previous one. Similarly, the Ukrainian media has been discussing him since independence. What is it? To date, we have a large army of print media that is founded by public authorities and local authorities, that is, district administrations, district councils, district administrations, district councils, ministries, authorities, etc. For a long time, the community has been saying that it is unfair and unfair to finance the authority of the district administration, in fact, or any political party, today, and tomorrow, another. Because the specific thing is that we have (and I don't want to criticize the working groups of these newspapers), but mostly they are reoriented so quickly that they are very positive for both one party, which is in power and the other, both to one governor and to another. According to various estimates, if you take the money that is spent on so-called state and municipal media, newspapers, and today we even have newspapers, there's some kind of department, that's what budget money has created, and about the head of this department, they tell you what he's doing for rest, with the dog, with the kids, there, with the others. And that's what the government's paying for. Someone says that 600 to 700 million dollars, someone says, up to a billion can actually do that. So, of course, we have to take this step and say, we respect labor groups and journalists and we don't want them to be on the street, but we have to respect the Ukrainian people who shouldn't pay for officials' newspapers. So we've also found this procedure, as it's called dissipation, compromise with the National Press Association, and we're doing it in two stages with media organizations. The first stage. During the year, the dissuasion process is carried out by the print media, who believe they are ready, who have agreed to do so, and they immediately refuse, come out of the founders, the authorities, and the labour force become the founder. During the transition period, they have the opportunity to leave the technology, rent the premises, and so forth. And a year later, we begin the second phase of compulsory double-dwelling to prepare them in a year, and in two years, we are quietly deprived of the media of this supplement, that the newspaper of the district administration, the newspaper of the district administration, the newspaper of the ministry. We have 61 amendments here. So is the committee's choice. This is an option for all members of the committee, and I will no longer call these "classics" of Ukrainian media cases, which everyone has agreed on and said that the alternative to second reading is one that sets up for today's day and journalists working in these newspapers and the media community and the Ukrainian MP Corps. Please insist that this bill is approved after 16 hours in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-17-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that we have no objection to addressing these issues after 16 hours when all the factions and MPs are gathered. I don't understand why I had to meet the faction of the Party of the Regions and return to the empty hall. This may not be the right thing to do, fellow believers. We have to work in any format. I am convinced that we do have every opportunity to make effective and right decisions. At the same time, dear colleagues, we've spoken to the deputies of all factions, and now I've met with the MP faction of the Party of the Regions. They also propose to rework the materials, to work out a format for trying to settle the situation peacefully in Donetsk. This is especially important before the great Christian festivals. We are in favour of taking advantage of all the possibilities for a peaceful settlement of the problem. We are for all our citizens together, no matter where they live, in Donetsk or in Lviv, to build a joint house together, Ukraine. Of course, I'm convinced that those terrorists, those diversified groups that are currently working in the territory of Donetsk, are hardly interested in this process. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of our citizens, I'm sure that will certainly support it. Therefore, dear fellows! We talked about the possibility of taking a break now, bringing together the leaders of MP groups and factions again to come up with a joint statement or a joint memorandum on the peaceful settlement of the situation in the eastern regions of our country. And I'm asking, dear fellows, that at 16 o'clock we all gather to make, I hope, very important decisions. With regard to the request of the deputies, I was approached by a group of deputies before I announced my break. People's deputies who created the interfractional parliamentary association "Parliamentary Republic". The union included 13 national deputies, most of whom were nonfractional deputies. They elected the national deputy of Derkasz Andrey Leonidovich as leader of the interfractional MPs, and the national deputies of Smythuch and Barbinenko, the deputy leader of this interfractional parliamentary association "Parliamentary Republic". Dear colleagues! I announce a break until 4:00 in the work of our Parliament. And I hope that all the MPs and factions, all the non-faction deputies, will be here together at 4:00, making responsible, decisive decisions. Once again, I emphasize and repeat, by 16 hours, the Supreme Council is calling a recess. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions at 1:00 30 minutes to meet in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. At 1:00, 30 minutes, 10 minutes.
