ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The Supreme Council is continuing its work, we are opening an evening plenary session. Please, colleagues, have a seat. Please listen carefully to the announcement. On February 27, 2014, on the basis of current legislation, 262 national MPs were announced at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, on July 24, 2014, at a plenary meeting of the heads of the political factions of the UDA political party and the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, they announced the withdrawal of these factions from the coalition, a total of 71 national deputies. And they've submitted the relevant documents that confirm the decisions of the national MPs with their personal signatures. In addition, 19 national deputies have also filed and filed statements of withdrawal from the coalition. In this context, I announce the cessation of Parliamentary Coalition "European Choice" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Call. Dear colleagues, we've talked to you about what needs to be accepted. Colleagues, I'm asking serious questions. We spoke to you at the morning session that there was an agreement to vote on the very important laws that had to do with the crisis that had taken place in the country. This is related to changes to Ukraine’s State Budget and changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code and other legislators. Ukraine. I ask that, my fellow Members, that we begin with you to consider this issue right from the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislation, because it is this law that creates an income base, which is distributed according to the second law, namely the Law on Changes to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2014. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sit in my workplace. We have the opportunity to do this now. I would, before the deputies vote, give the Minister of Finance of Ukraine three minutes to get him to vote. Colleagues, in order for him to present this draft law, which we must include in the agenda. While the minister is on his way to the parliamentary rostrum, please, Your Honor, let us see what it is that the MPs are now ready to vote, to register. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:13:26]] There were 290 people's deputies registered in the hall. We continue our work. Please, Alexander Vitaliyovich, please introduce the project.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u2	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! With your permission, I'm going to start with a general picture to explain why we're making changes to the Tax Code. Ukraine faces extremely complex challenges that need our answer, without neglect, today. These challenges are primarily related to two of our enemies. The first is an enemy who kills our people in eastern Ukraine, it's a military conflict. And the second is an economic situation that, unfortunately, is also associated with this conflict. We need you to invent resources to increase military spending. I want to remind you that in March months, when funds were being allocated from the state budget for the reserve fund for our Ministry of Defense and other forces, we calculated that the operation would continue until July 1st. Further operations require additional resources. Our military is asked, at least, to allocate more than 9 billion dollars for these purposes. In addition, the Ukrainian government has been constantly confronted with the need to find resources to recover already freed territories from terrorists. We do not yet have the resources to give at least basic living and working conditions to those who have left Crimea and eastern areas. So the government is initiating the creation of a special fund to restore the eastern regions of Ukraine and resolve the questions of the displaced. This takes about 7 billion dollars. In addition, the economic analysis presented in the additional materials to the people's deputies shows that by the end of this year, due primarily to events in eastern Ukraine, we will not be able to reach the revenue portion of the national budget of about 13 billion dollars. So we have a very difficult task of finding reserves to close the total financial gap of 31 billion. For 10 billion, we've found an opportunity to cut down on the state budget, which I'll tell you about when we talk about the changes to the 2014 Budget Act. For 21 billion we offer to find additional income by making changes to the Tax Code. In these difficult circumstances, we feel that there should be no increase in the fiscal burden on active subjects of the enterprise. And that's why we went the next way. First of all, to tax the mining industry as much as possible, and to remind me of the activities of the Ukrainian people under the Constitution. Secondly, take off the taxes on the added value, and mainly on the income tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u3	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u4	Because we think that today is much more important than the budget revenue that could be used for the purposes that I've already told you about. The first part is taxation. We started this work in March months when we raised iron ore more than four times. Yet our attempts to tax extra gas and oil have failed. At the same time, I would like to remind you, honourable national MPs, today we are getting a little bit more than 15 billion cubic metres of gas in Ukraine and selling it at a regulated price for 362 bracelets. At the same time, companies, so-called joint ventures, we get about 6 billion cubic meters of gas and sell it for industry, once again, at a regulated price, 4724 bracelets. This means that the fiscal burden on Crushing is 94 percent, while the fiscal burden on private companies is 17.5 percent. I want to remind you that the cost of Crushing in the first quarter of 14 is 242 bracelets. And that's because in the cost structure, 156 dollars is amortized. Thus, the net income of natural gas for the population is 47 dollars, profitability, attention, 19 percent. Net revenue for the implementation of 1,000 cubic metres of natural gas of its own production for industrial purposes is 3,654 bracelets. Attention, profitability is one and a half thousand percent. We believe that this practice must be stopped sooner or later. And to our conviction, it should be stopped by Parliament today, by directing these excess revenues to the needs of our military. The net revenue from natural gas for industrial purposes is 77 times higher than the net revenue from natural gas for the needs of the population. We have calculated that since 2008, private companies have made more than 40 billion profits for Ukrainian gas. We propose to increase the wage for natural gas nadrama, which is sold for industrial purposes from 17.5 to 70 percent of the marginal maximum price for natural gas. This is also true of oil production. During the 5 years until 1 January 2014, oil and condensate production was taxed by the corresponding payment system, it was a fixed tax with a adjusted coefficient, on average, I'll stop at this figure alone, it was 56 percent of the oil value we took for the calculation unit, it was a barrel of oil of the Urals class, it was 56 percent, I emphasize, but from 1 January 2014, the approach changed, a different approach was introduced and the rate was lowered to 39 percent. So today, (I want to draw your attention to the following figures, they are also given in your materials), the cost of oil production by Ukranafta for the 1st quarter of 2014 is 885 dollars. These are the company's data. So today, the company is getting profits, if you convert it to self-sustainment, over 700 percent. We think we should go back to the taxation that existed before 1 January 2013 and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u5	Alexander Vitaliyovich, do you have much more?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u6	Three minutes. And so return 56 percent to tax oil. These are the two main resource payments. The government initiated tax changes, before the specific taxation of the agrarian complex was removed. After consulting the factions, we decided to withdraw these proposals from the agenda and leave the security with us for a while, and hold further consultations with the agrarians. At the same time, dear colleagues, we cannot allow respectable exporters to export grain from the State and to export VAT from the State budget, which they did not pay there, and therefore we insist that compensation for the grain export operation be abolished by at least 1 January 2015. There's still a few softer money that relates to income tax and VAT that I'm going to answer the question, if that's the case, for the sake of the economy of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u8	No questions? I can see a few hands. Then let's write the factions on the question. National Deputy Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u9	Dear Mr. Minister! I want you to make it clear that you're not moving the agricultural tax system in Ukraine and you're only moving on VAT for grain traders. Now, tell me clearly, what about the APC tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u10	Dear Catherine Timofievna! Once again, the taxation of the agrarian complex remains the way it is at the moment. The VAT is still in existence, and there is a fixed tax and exemption from operations, from grain exports. Everything remains as it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u11	Please, Kartashov, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u12	That's my question. Why do we know that profits are about 700 percent, why are we only asking the question now and not asking it earlier?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u13	I'll take Mr. Lachak's advice, and I'll say the same. We tried to place it on March 27th, Mr. Eugene. You didn't support us then. And why they didn't, they didn't put it earlier, it's really a question for the previous government that changed the system on January 1, 2013.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u14	People's MP Ionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u15	Please pass the word to Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u16	Please turn on the microphone of the Kutov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u17	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your report. If possible, simply explain one point. In our report, we described VAT as January 1, 2015. The materials that we have just received during the break mean the number, the third paragraph, here, in paragraph 12 of the first paragraph of Chapter I of the bill, the numbers "January 1, 2015" are replaced by the words "December 31, 2015 included." So we're talking about December 31, 2015, or are we talking about January 1, 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u18	Thank you. I reported on the bill that we tabled to Parliament. If we get to looking at it essentially, I have two pages of comments to this bill, where there's an amendment that you've just been talking about. The point of this correction is to the next. If we are not ready to change the agrarian tax system from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, we believe that the exemption from VAT on grain exports should be maintained. So it's December 31st, 2015. She's about to be discussed in the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u19	Please, the People's Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u20	Please give the floor to the national MP, Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u21	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u22	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the minister. Please tell me why you did not specify in this bill the taxation of rents for the production of iron ore, but only gas and oil. What, so we start lobbying the structures of Ahmedov? This time. One second. The increase in excise duty on beer, alcohol, and tobacco is not included. This is, if you were to increase the excise on beer on bracelet 2 we would get an additional 4 billion dollars per year. Don't we need that money? Therefore, even if we do a good thing, our young generation will be less able to sing. Well, of course, we don't take into account our basic proposals that the All-U.S. Freedom Association offered. These are the bills that applied to taxation and recovery from offshore. Because today the structures that are registered in offshores, they are taking billions out of Ukraine, and we are not taxing them in any way, that is, avoiding doubles.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u23	Mr. Mikhail, I'll answer that. We've raised, I've talked about this, since March 27th, the bet on ore four times. We can pick up the next one, no questions asked. Since July 1, excise duties have been raised by 27 percent for alcoholic beverages. We can keep going. But this. Maybe a little. But this will require additional special calculations. Since, for example, you and I have been raised to beer, alcohol, and tobacco, it has resulted in a general decline in taxes on the state budget. Therefore, this requires further discussion. And I also wanted to talk about offshores. Any proposal made by the people's deputies for additional revenue from the state budget will be gratefully accepted and considered. It just takes a little more time to have a discussion, including discussions with market participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u24	Turn on the minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u25	I already told you about the fact that we raised the bet on ore four times on March 27th. Offshore. Once again, if there is a bill ready, we will be grateful to consider it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Beautiful. I've only received one today from Mr. Kaida. I'll look at it with great pleasure. The only way to figure it out and figure it out is with you and me. It's a wonderful idea. Let's look at it and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u26	Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u27	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u28	Passes the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, Your Honor Minister! I want everyone to hear it. Because in agricultural production, you're ruining what's been happening for decades and what you're used to, and where Ukraine's future is going to regenerate its economy, we've had negotiations with farmers, and we want to say the following. Dear Alexander Vitaliyovich, we are prepared to confirm that the agrarians are ready to place troops in the necessary quantities today through the state reserve, the necessary quantities of flour, peas, pasta, vegetable and animal butter, and meat free of charge in the quantities needed through the state reserve. [[Applause]] And please confirm that paragraph 9 in Ending Positions sub-paragraph 6-7 on budgeting has been deleted. Confirm, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u30	No, you're talking about the Budget Act. We'll talk about him. Yeah, it's really deleted, but let's talk about it a little bit later, now we're talking about another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u31	Please, the last speaker, Jeremey Igor Mironovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u32	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, a few months ago, when tragic events began and military aggression against Ukraine began, this is the very Supreme Council that made a decision and allocated some 8 billion dollars for the Ministry of Defence to maintain the security of our army. You're asking us again today, and you're asking us to fund another partial army. But over the past few months, we've heard of the fact that vests are purchased by a thousand and a half thousand dollars more expensive. We hear today that people in villages are raising money to buy vests. We believe that there should be a meeting in the Supreme Council where the President, the Secretary of Defense, the Head of the ATO, should be present, where a full and detailed report should be made on the use of 8 billion dollars and then we should consider these questions where we should get answers to all the questions that we have asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u33	Dear Igor Mironovich, you and I have agreed to set up a special commission in this room with the participation of the national deputies, who were to monitor where the funds were being spent. That's where Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk, whom everyone respects in this room, went to other people, you didn't go. Please take part in this commission, see how the funds are distributed. I don't want to say in any way that the funds are being distributed completely effectively. But we have all the tools to track how these costs are spent. Instead, I am not a military expert, and I have seen the demands of our military. And I can confirm that from August 1, there is no money to pay for the people who are fighting in the ATO zone. You can check until the second snow, by January 1st, but as of August 1st, we'll get paid by the military. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I see a lot of hands and I want to remind you that we have not yet incorporated the law into the agenda. We'll include it in the agenda, please be able to discuss it. What are we talking about? They asked me to ask the minister of finance, and I gave it a chance. Please, Alexander Vitaliyovich, take your seat. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. A proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts on the improvement of individual provisions (Registration No. 4309a). Please support the inclusion of this project in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[16:32:45.]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood - 78, Regions - 1, Impact - 35, Economic Development - 1, Sovereign European Ukraine - 0, Freedom - 34, MPS (see how the MPS works effectively) - 29, support is, non-fractional - 28. Dear colleagues, I understand that we have a very serious question. Colleagues! That's why. We're working under the Rules, you're telling me that, I heard that. Please, we're still working. The next question, the honourable colleagues on whom the government insists on accepting it as a whole, is the issue of the energy security of our country. And the government insists that we address this issue. I don't ask about the budget because it doesn't make sense to put it in terms of the fact that the Supreme Council didn't support the income portion of the budget. Without the income part of the budget, there is no point in making decisions about budget changes. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you to proceed now, at the insistence of the government, in the second reading of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the reform of the administration system of Ukraine's only gas transport system. I would like to ask the head of the Committee of Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich to report the law to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u35	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, the committee at yesterday's meeting discussed the amendments that came from you under the bill. The committee was able to balance the bill in such a way that its body was not destroyed. There's one rule that we talked about in the first reading of this law that says that an investor is involved in a gas transport operator. The final decision will be taken by the session room, i.e. by 226 votes. Even in the revisions to the second reading, there are many different insinuations in which, for example, the operator is offered to leave the state. So where are we going with the investor? How will we encourage him to do so? Question two. It was also suggested that the selection of investors to participate in the gas transport system should be made very strong, as if it were a big turn. And actually, the point of the bill is that the first challenge is to make incentives for Western European consumers to put gas on our pipe and not be interested in the South Stream construction. And the second question. To make the investor enter our gas transport system, into our gas depots that are constantly underloaded, and to make normal business and normal gas flows to get through our country, and the system itself has earned profits for our nation. We can go in the right direction, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, as far as I know, the government is about to have the law adopted by the committee, because it can be completely balanced by the amendments. So, Mikolo Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u37	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, may I put this project to the vote in committee? We can. Please be supportive. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, the strike faction today, the nominees, they insist, I can't say no. Please, Oksani Prodan, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u39	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, the strike faction and I have personally made amendments that provide for several things that are not included in the bill. First, as Alexander Valentinovich rightly said, this bill concerns the national security of Ukraine. So we need to talk about that an operator who manages the gas transport system should remain state-owned. And we have the opportunity, according to our amendments and existing legislation, to use the mechanisms of public-private partnership. That's the first one. The second is what it should be. The terms and procedures for determining the investor should be approved by the Supreme Council. That's because Ukraine today has only two values: the gas transport system and the land. We can't just give someone the opportunity to approve the requirements for future investments and the mutual use of state property without the decision of the Supreme Council. The bill also provides for the separation of shelters and gas pipelines. This suggests that national security, a year from now, is going to be in Ukraine in six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u40	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u41	Because right now the value of the Ukrainian gas transport system is that we have a pipeline and we have shelters that are nowhere in Europe. Now it's proposed to split up shelters that are profitable, which are unique with the gas flow, a stream that can quickly become parallel to what is now being built by Europeans. So it's important for us to put European funds into upgrades right into the general system, into shelters along with the pipe. And the last. There is no requirement in this bill for a future investor in the modernization part and part of the need to invest. We're only giving our Ukrainian operator the opportunity to operate today, according to Minpalevenergo's order, to put part of the Ukrainian pipe into the future of the operator's combined activity. But there is no requirement for an investor in this bill. So there's no guarantee that the gas transport system will be rebuilt and restored, and we won't have it. I'm asking you very much to support the four alterations to "BOCK" and then "BOCK" sucks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u42	Please comment, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the comment will be general first. If we're going to make all the proposals to hit, we don't have to do anything. We have a state operator. Yes or no I'm saying? State operator, we have gas repositories. You're saying they're profitable? In recent years, we have never had them filled. We have about 14 billion cubic metres of gas with buffer gas today. And the whole shelter is 30-35 billion, if I think so. So what are we even talking about? How are we going to write out all the details, the terms of the investor's entry? Why do we have a government? Are we not choosing a government in this room? Then let's not let the government take part in this, we'll duplicate the government -- this is where we make decisions. So this is what I'm going to say, is that the impact fraction of the amendment formulated to break this bill, to cool it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, I understand that both the committee is professional, and the government insists on voting directly in an editorial committee to ensure that there is no balance in the law and that it doesn't make any sense. It is the Russian Federation who wants this law not to be adopted today. And I'm very much asking, honourable colleagues, to support in the second reading and in general in the committee's editorial bill registration number 4116a. This is a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on reforming the administration of Ukraine's single gas transport system. Please support me in my second reading and in general. Please vote: 4116a. [[16:41:40]] For-94 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 75, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 8, Sovereign European Ukraine – 0, Freedom – 0, ZMS – 0, non-fractional – 11. Please, Oleg Lazko, with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u45	I'll tell you what the motive is. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I was one of those few national deputies who voted in favour of this bill. I want to warn the citizens of Ukraine: today, when we have the heat, when we have no ice, when we have no snow, when winter comes to us, and your apartments will have cold, and your batteries will have cold water, and your taps will have cold water, so that you know who to thank and who to bring to the villas: the commie (the glory of God, for the winter, will not be there), the regionals and all those who did not vote in favour of this law. Shame! You're protecting the oligarchs! You trade with the government for grain traders, for oil, for gas, for everything else. The units are thinking of the people, the units! And they did the right thing by the Faction "BOCK," the Faction "Freedom" and the other factions that announced the collapse of the coalition, about the early elections. There is no right for such a Supreme Council, with commies and with regionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u46	I'm sorry, Oleg Valeriyovich, both hit and freedom didn't vote in favour of this law. We've got to figure this out a little bit. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! Please! Arsenius Petrovich, the government insists on a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the government. In connection with the results of the vote. Come on, Sobolje's word. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a chance, calm down, I'll let you know. Please turn off Sergio Sobolev's microphone. MP Mirny stands here and insists on his word. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u47	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to say that perhaps the time of cheap clowns in the Supreme Council is passing. The question of state weight and jumping out, not understanding the question, but just working, I don't know, on the camera, on the stands, on anything, well, it's the tip of cynicism and the ultimate betrayal of the Ukrainian state. Because we know clearly that more than 100 companies in Europe are profiled with Gazprom. Not enough, many of them have a stock control package in general. And what I'm trying to say is, if we were to go through things in a calm way right now, I would point out, by the way, that, by the way, I think, we would find a solution to what to do. Because there are not so many, and in general only 34 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u48	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u49	I think we should go back to that question. Because we shouldn't reject this question, really, the gas station, it's a job issue, it's a matter of energy security. But there is, for example, a question that arose in Freedom. Yesterday, thanks to Mikoli Volodymyrovich, the committee was really, really tense. And, for example, with Mr. Vlasenko, I would like to emphasize, the MP from Fatherland, they've sharpened the question at the same point and found a solution to how we should comment on the situation. But in today's version, we've seen an old option that we can't vote for, from our point of view. So let us do these things and calmly return to the consideration of the matter, and quietly vote on all the dangers that are present today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u50	Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u51	Dear Prime Minister. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council. Dear voters. If someone doesn't realize what just happened, I'll try to explain, even in a minute. We didn't have a Ukrainian gas control system? Did someone forget that? Rosukrenergo company, did you forget her? Did you forget how all the people of Furtash sat in the Naftogaz Ukraine and managed and pulled the last one? Is that what one faction insists? Did we forget how our gas repositories seemed to be 2 kips in a ten-year lease to the Firthash? Do we want this to stay again? It won't work. That's why there was a moment of truth. Whoever really understands that the question now is whether the South Stream or the Yog will not be, or whether we will be interested in the real European investors and US investors in cooperation with Ukraine, in cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament and government, that is what Ukraine's National Security depends on. And the key security that the government has taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u53	That's good. This is a safeguard that it is Parliament that will approve the investor that claims to be in charge, I would stress, the gas transport system that remains in state ownership. Thus, we are in the winter with a situation that is totally unresolved and that poses a real threat to Ukraine's national interests. And whether we continue to return or not, this is the verdict of this Parliament and we have seen the end of the political games in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u54	Please, Your Honor, head of the committee, Mikola Martinenko, and let's take a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u55	Dear Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues. The question was that some positions had not been taken into account on the committee, all the proceedings had been taken into account on the committee without exception, and there were no additional amendments that had been made yesterday, including at the committee meeting. All the changes are accounted for, they're in the table, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, the government insists on a break for consultations. I'm announcing. [[Noise Nodes]] I announce a break of 17 hours for 20 minutes and invite the faction leaders to consult with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u57	After, after. The Prime Minister says after this consultation, the government will make a formal statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u58	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. The Supreme Council continues its work. I ask the Secretariat to make an appropriate announcement in the towers of the Supreme Council and invite all the national deputies to the session hall. Dear colleagues, sit down, sit down. The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u59	Dear Mr. Head! Former European Choice Coalition partners! This is the choice that millions of Ukrainians stood for, the choice that people on the Maidan made. It is the choice that Ukraine should make, for history has made! And the MPs from the opposition! It's a complicated speech and a difficult moment, not a personal one, but a difficult moment for the country as a whole. I'm trying to avoid any diplomatic language, and more so than that, I'm trying to avoid polytechnological language. And tell the truth about how I've been doing the last five months with this government. It's not the best government in the country's history. God forbid, there will probably be a model government in the future if Ukraine is preserved, and if we go through this period of terrible trials right now. But at least that government did what they could. The way you've done it. What your parents taught you, how you feel, and what the Ukrainians wanted. Are you satisfied with your work personally? Of course not. I'd like to do more, I'd like to do better, I'd like to do it faster. But whether by answering the question, did we do all we could, what we could, I'd say yes, we did. What happened today in the Parliamentary Hall will be very difficult if not dramatic consequences for the country. [[Applause]] Let God make me wrong, and we'll applaud those who say we made the right decision, we were right, the course we chose was only faithful. Yes, most people want early parliamentary elections And we want early parliamentary elections. That's true. There is only one very important thing. What is the difference between a national leader and a politician? The difference is that the national leader assumes responsibility, even if it does not. [[Applause]] You must understand me, dear colleagues. Our government now has no answer to the question: How can I pay my wages, how can I charge the ATRs tomorrow morning, how can I pay people who have died and their families? From where? What kind of money? How do you support the army and the Armed Forces? How can the spirit of those tens of thousands of people who do not sit in this room be demoralized and who sit in the trenches under the bullets? Maybe we'll think about them! A broken coalition has an effect today. The laws that would fill the income part of the budget have been broken. And that's understandable. And who wants to go to the polls and vote for unpopular laws at the same time? [[Applause]] A budget law that doesn't require IMF, dear friends, is what we all need. There are 9 billion per army and 7 billion for infrastructure restoration, Donetsk, Lugansk. I was in Slovenian, and I saw those people. Clearly, they do not like central power in Kiev very much. But I can tell you for certain: DNR, LNR and other abominations they hate. [[Applause]] But these people need help, and they need help -- they're our Ukrainians. It may be that people make mistakes, but there are no saints in this room, and they are not on the earth. And so if we're more right, honest and honest with each other, there's going to be another country. But it is unacceptable to exchange a narrow political interest in the State’s fate. It is a moral and political crime. [[Applause]] The scariest thing for me personally, not as the Prime Minister, is that our country has seen dozens of premieres before me and after me, God forbid there are many of them, and as a human being, that is, today after the actual collapse of the coalition when the GTS law was broken, everyone understands, dear friends. For the first time, we wanted to make a decision: to allow exclusively real European and American companies, and only with the permission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to manage the gas system of the state, and only 49 percent. The pipe is owned by the state, the control package is owned by the state. And even that decision was over. So what's my biggest pain? For now applauding the State Duma of the Russian Federation. That's who won now! Who's celebrating today? Who's going to be the banker today? You can agree, you can disagree. Dear friends, I do not claim to be absolutely true, I have no right to be. But history will not forgive us. God forbid we go through this period, I still believe, like every human, I truly believe that these trials will be passed by our country, first and foremost, people. This revolution has not been made by us, millions have made it. The European choice was not us, the European choice stood for the "heavenly hundred" and the hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who came out. [[Applause]] And no one is allowed to make that achievement. History teaches us that we're almost getting to something and there's not enough of it here, so it was with the Ukrainian People's Republic. That's not the way it's supposed to be. We have to finally show the world that we're only short for five months or six months, which is enough for a decade. That we have consciousness, that our goals are righteous and just, and that we are honest with one another. I'm telling you again, and the election is nothing more than how much we've been through this election. But the country, but the Ukrainians, who are about to lose faith, and any changes and reforms in Ukraine are only possible when people believe. And now, after what happens, it's hard for me to tell people how to strengthen faith and confidence, to be sure that we're doing the right thing. So the fact that the coalition broke down today, the fact that there are no laws today and there's nothing to pay a soldier, a militiaman, a doctor, a teacher, there's nothing to buy a gun for, there's nothing to charge an A.T.R., the fact that there's no decision today to fill Ukrainian gas shelters to allow the winter to finally be freed from Russian gas addiction is unacceptable. In this situation, what are the options in the government, since we have a parliamentary-presidential republic? There's the first option -- one coalition broke down, the Prime Minister starts the process of forming a new coalition. What does that mean? This means that the Prime Minister must join the coalition of communists and regions. I won't do it under any circumstances! () [[Applause]] There's a second option. In that case, if there is no new coalition and a valid coalition in the parliamentary-presidential republic is broken down, the government and the prime minister are obliged to resign. I declare resignation in connection with the collapse of the coalition and the blocking of government initiatives. () [[Applause]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m1.u60	Dear National Deputies! I am officially referring to the faction of the Coalition's break-up -- impact and freedom -- to make an immediate proposal for a technical prime minister to run the government before the parliamentary elections. This is your responsibility. I ask you to make an immediate nomination. [[Applause]] I'm going to gather an emergency session at any time to consider and support your candidacy. I am sure that the entire Parliament feels responsible and unanimously votes in favour of your candidacy. Yes or no? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please don't waste your time and start a consultation on the technical prime minister's candidacy. Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, you and I have judges to be dismissed. They've been waiting all day for a decision. You're leaving? Dear colleagues, I see you have no desire to work. I'm told that Knaczykki, who has to report this question, is gone. That's why I'm closing the session. The Supreme Council will resume its work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
