ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We will begin the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. Traditionally, I would like to inform you that today is the birthday of the national deputies of Gordinek Sergey Volodymyrovich and Fedoruk Mikli Trochymovich. Dear colleagues, please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:04]] There were 232 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues! I am convinced that the entire Ukrainian people, the whole world, are outraged that not only does the aggression and provocation of the Russian Federation continue in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is an integral part of our country, but Russia itself has begun to attempt political annexation of the occupied territory. Yesterday, the National Security and Defence Council took place where a series of diplomatic, administrative, military and technical measures were taken to counter the aggression of the Russian Federation. I am also convinced that today the Supreme Council will also express its position against the invaders. I'm informing the people's deputies that the head of the Ukrainian Navy, counter-admiral Hayduk, and the civilian hostages who were illegally held by the Russian Federation's Armed Forces in the area of ARK Crimea, were released tonight and are already on their way to Kiev. Before starting the discussion of today's agenda, honourable colleagues, I would like to announce an announcement from the deputy faction of Fatherskin in connection with the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr Arsenuk Arseny Petrovic, and his term of office as a national deputy, as well as by the minutes of the meeting of the Deputy faction of Fatherschina of 4 March 2014, I report on the election of the acting head of the deputy faction "Fatherschina" of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Soboljeva Sergei Vladislavovic. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very responsible decision to make today. Before discussing the agenda, I would like to ask that the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions or their authorized representatives make appropriate statements and reports. Please sign up for the performance. Who's going to perform from the strike faction? Dear colleagues, from the Strike faction, who will be speaking to us? Irina Heratschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I ask your attention and I would like to suggest that we begin today's business day with a moment of silence in the memory of that flagman who served Ukraine honestly and died at the hands of the invaders in the Ukrainian Crimea. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. You know, there was information on the Internet that this person, this young man, had a pregnant wife and a four - year - old child. And I think it is the duty of our sessional hall that his family not be overlooked only today when we remember his feat and the fact that the blood of this man is on the hands of the invaders, but in general that all the military men who are worthy of serving Ukraine and serving in Crimea feel protected. That's why the strike party has prepared a series of drafts that we, dear colleagues, ask you to consider as the first-ever, in particular a draft of the hit-and-run bill, which proposes that all military personnel who have served in Crimea be given the status of participants in hostilities. Similarly, we consider it necessary to adopt the Law on Root Status as soon as possible. on the rights of the Crimea indigenous peoples, of which the Crimean Tatar people most certainly belong. And I think, too, colleagues, that very few of us are paying attention to the man who is sitting next to us in the session room, and this is Mustafa Jamilev. It is necessary today, outside the Rules, to give the floor to Mr. Jamilev to tell us about the immediate situation in Crimea and what our Ukrainian, Crimean Tatar, friendly people expect us to accept. The other one. We consider it necessary to adopt the Law on Temporary Occupied Area as a matter of urgency. Such a bill by Vitaly Klitschko and the strike party have prepared the same, today it will be registered and we ask the head of the Supreme Council to give the committee of the Supreme Council immediate consideration to it and to accept it as prime priority. And it's also very important, your honorary colleagues, that you and I decide as soon as possible the fate of our military personnel who are now in Crimea. Many of them, in fact, do not want to leave Crimea today. For this is their land, where their families dwell. And we realize what a huge danger this is. And that's why we have to listen to the right leaders of the power structures to make the right decision. And the last. I'll be wrong if I don't mention the case that happened, unfortunately, two days ago when our colleagues in the Freedom faction allowed themselves to discredit the name of the National Deputy of Ukraine when they tried to force their way out of retirement, a letter from the head of the National Television Company of Ukraine. It's very important that the Freedom faction itself, their leader admitted that it was an unworthy act. And I think it's the right thing for a new authority to admit its mistakes. But what I'm saying is, colleagues, we're going to be wrong with you if we don't necessarily determine that there was a terrible censorship on UT-1 during the reign.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u3	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u4	Personally, as Ukrainian national deputy, I have repeatedly appealed to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to file a criminal case based on the fact that Censorship was conducted on "UT-1" and the previous director did not do so. So I'm asking you to officially consider my parliamentary questions about Censorship for UT-1 in the early part of 2014. And one more thing. Colleagues, we see bullying on the part of some of our colleagues. That's very right. But we do not notice that we are crimes on the part of some of our other colleagues. And that is why we also demand of our faction that the U.S. Attorney General's Office of Ukraine file a case for the state's immediate and secessionism of those Ukrainian national deputies who, in these two days, have disgraced the name of the Ukrainian national deputies on all the Russian channels, are jumping, bottled, shouting, "Russia!" and celebrate some victory. In the session hall they no longer appear two places, the names of everyone known are Kings, Koleshnenko, Yanukovich, Jr. and Nishi. We are addressing the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine today to address matters of treason and secession. Give us the right things here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I think we're going to leave the title of Ukrainian national deputies to the constitutional majority of these people. Let them go to the tree house if anyone lets them at least on the threshold. Thank you for your attention. And the glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, who will be speaking from the "North European Ukraine"? Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u6	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today, more than ever, an adequate assessment of the situation of "no crying or curses" is needed, especially since it is extremely dangerous. Ukraine did not lose Crimea. The fight for Crimea goes on to another, prolonged, and apparently lasting phase. And today the price of Crimea is the preservation of Ukraine. Ukraine generally acted too civilized, thereby demonstrating its Europeanness. And apparently, by the time the issue was raised in the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the application for Ukraine's accession to the European Union, the fact is that the Europeans are already promoting such a thesis. In fact, Ukraine has been left alone with its territorial integrity problem. Yes, the whole world does not recognize the annexation of Crimea. And there's a situation that's so complicated that the whole world isn't moving forward, and one country is moving forward. At the same time, the prospect promoted by analysts and even politicians in the Western world is becoming increasingly clear: Ukraine should not become a Western platform to attack Russia. So Ukraine, based on the world’s moral support, must first and foremost rely on its own strength. We need to make, reconcile and start their implementation based on public support. Unfortunately, the unity of our society cannot be spoken of today, and this must be taken into account. We need to talk to the country. It is now clearly not enough to exchange thoughts in the offices and to make very often abstract decisions that have been taken away from the reality of life. Tell me, dear colleagues, what kind of defense can we talk about when, under the current conditions, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decides to cut down security and defence authorities at 20 percent? How many more decisions does the National Security and Defence Committee have to take to stop this action by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? What can be said of those who work day and night to provide for military personnel who are expected to resign from their positions tomorrow? I ask the Acting President, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to finally respond to the relevant decision of the Committee and to put an end to such action. How can a country be consolidated when people are intimidated by open - minded, presumptuous, and challenging crimes? When will this end? The government in the south-eastern region is an illusion, in other areas of the populist region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u8	Let me finish. The law enforcement agencies are demoralized, they take a stand, they dominate the right of power. In this development, with these approaches to formation, including individual power structures, we get a series of military coups in a country like African countries. There will be no basic order in the country, there will be no country. And now, dear colleagues, we need to consolidate ourselves around clear decisions and actions, first of all, about the Crimea. Problem number one: the military in Crimea, our military. So far, in reality, we have different statements that demoralize before. The negotiation window is closed. In principle, it is very difficult to negotiate when other countries are holding hands at such a critical time on Ukraine’s throat. But at the same time, we must do our utmost to make sure that the military speak clearly and clearly about our position. We need meaningful action, we need to be determined to ask the question of leaving our soldiers in Crimea. When it comes to output, it has to be reallocation, but only with the entire material part, that's how we have our dialogue. And we need to keep people in the Crimea at the dead end, and we need to keep them as safe as possible, so that we can preserve their loyalty to Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Two very important questions were raised. The first is about reducing the power block. The mandate given to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers is, by the way, in the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence regarding no cuts in the force block. What's more, with regard to the Armed Forces in relation to the National Guard, you know that additional funding is now being opened and there is a partial mobilization of Ukrainian patriots to the Armed Forces and to the National Guard. As far as European integration is concerned, dear colleagues, I inform you that I have signed a directive for the Prime Minister of Ukraine to sign the Association Agreement with the European Union on Friday. This is a strategic decision for our country, this is our strategic path, and that's why the hysteria and provocations in Crimea are exacerbated by pressure on Ukraine to break this signature. But this pressure we have endured and the Agreement will be signed. Thank you. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! From the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u10	Party of regions, Gorina, 171 district, town of Harkov. Dear colleagues! Respectable, respected viewers! Today power is delaying, and we must all concentrate together and answer very clearly the questions in order not to lose the Crimea or the country at all. How could it be that the pearl, our Crimea, is a strategic object, with such resources, with human resources, with natural resources, with access to the sea, in fact, we are now losing? Why is this happening? This is also the case with the great consent of the people who live there. And these people were terrified of what was happening in Kiev, what was the rhetoric, what were the statements. Unfortunately, power is now late again. The Prime Minister only began to communicate humanly with the east and the south of Ukraine the day before yesterday, explaining that the Russian language would not be abolished, explaining that there would be more autonomy in the regions. And these people will listen and listen. You may not agree and yell, but I've just come back from Harkov and the problem is that the old people of 60+ want to go to Russia. And this is our problem, and we walk and explain, the middle age wants Russian -- the state language -- and wants the federalization and independence of the region. And if you don't hear it, you'll ruin the country, not us, you. What mistakes are now made? The visa-free mode. You can't make a visa-free regime, you can announce a non-grat person, but people in border areas work both in Russia and in Ukraine. The visa regime, first of all, you're doing bad to those people who live in the south-east again. You, my colleagues in Liberty, do you know what you're called in Kharkiv? You are the Kremlin's stars, you went to Pantelemone's right after Putin's performance and did everything as if you had gotten something for it. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u11	"Killers." You're the killers. Therefore, if power is to be delayed now, it will come into history, not as the power that led Maidan, but as the power that really destroyed Ukraine. Concentrate, you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u12	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u13	Warlords in the Crimea have not received any clear orders from above, either from the Commander-in-Chief or from the Minister of the Armed Forces. Don't be late, you'll just lose Ukraine. And we're with you, too, but we won't give it to you. Listen to the south-east, don't be late!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u14	From the faction of the Communist Party, the term is given to the national MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u15	Dear voters, national MPs who want to hear! I want to remind you all of you of the famous Bible commandment, "Don't judge, don't be judged." Because, unfortunately, each one of us in this session hall is wearing a court robe, a prosecutor's title -- and he starts giving grades to the left and right. I would like to remind each of us, of the 447 who represent the interests of the Ukrainian people, that we will be given, given and given only by those who have delegated us here. And each of us has to stand for the interests of the forces of society that voted in 2012. The next time I explain the principle of our faction's position on the charges of most coalitions, why Communists don't help them work. You have 260 or 258. Go to work, and there's no problem with the vote. We state that until the European Parliament's decision has been implemented, it has condemned the seizure of the Central Committee's premises. As long as they don't stop chasing. Our comrades. And in the Western areas, you took them out into the woods, forced them to give up the powers of the district councils or district councils. Until then, we can't do anything else. Our voters are asking, and you are where Simonenko is. Simonenko works with the voters. He visited Odessa, Mikolayivsk, Hersonsk, Donetsk, Lugansk region, Chernigivsk, Kharkiv region. He's where, by the way, all of us would have to do it. Not shake the air with our fists. And to be there and to talk to the electorate, to calm them down and to bring them to their senses and order, not to stretch our state. Because by our decisions and calls, unfortunately, we are not helping, but we are stimulating the bad conduct of one or the other political forces. And in closing, I would like to remind everyone and everyone: everything flows, everything changes. As today, there will always be no. Let's think about the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u16	From the MP's Economic Development Group, National MP Žuravsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u17	May I have a word with our "Economic Development" group, Anatoly Kirilovich Kinahu?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u18	Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u19	Dear National Deputies! The Economic Development Union calls for all to work on the principle of a hot heart and a cold head. There are unprecedented events that affect not only Ukraine’s territorial integrity but also gravely violate the fundamental norms of international law, undermining the efforts of the entire world society to strengthen collective security. The 1994 Budapest Treaty clearly and firmly guaranteed Ukraine as the first and last state in the world that voluntarily gave up the third power of nuclear power, the principle of territorial integrity. The Budapest Treaty is grossly broken and, in fact, today the world’s civilization is on the verge of an unprecedented increase in the number of nations with technological capabilities to possess nuclear weapons. This is the level of responsibility that stands before us. Clearly, we can only thank the world’s companionship for its strong support. Including, we are confident that the signing of the political agreement on the Association of Ukraine-EU is a point of non-return in the context of Ukraine's irreversible development as a modern European state with modern economic standards, the quality of life of citizens, the rule of law. It is very important, and this question, which depends primarily on us, to remember that the attitude towards Ukraine, the level of support, our success in all protection and national security of territorial integrity will depend on our consolidation, on how much the rule of law prevails throughout Ukraine, how much the state can defend its citizens, how clear the rule of law, how secure public security, how effective the human rights policy is, not just political relevance, but, as a matter of quality, what is the national plan of those working in the government system. Our success will depend on it. It's very important, and we're very concerned that unfortunately, from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at this time, there's still no systematic plan for our anti-crisis programmes, including the medium-term perspective. What is happening today is the attempt to tax deposits, the issues that are related to reducing social standards, it's only creating tensions in society. There must be a comprehensive action plan based on economic development, investment climate, offshoring, the fight against the shadowy part of the economy as a result of our development. Dear National Deputies! At this time, it's definitely ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u20	Allow me to finish the speech. Anatoly Kirilovich, you can finish. Okay? From the Fatherland faction of Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, I think I've been set up for a completely tolerant and compromising performance. Because today it looks like all Ukrainian citizens in every corner of the country are calling us to unity, to fight separatism. And here in the session room, MPs are speaking and demanding things that people don't ask for. Well, I'm sorry, of course, find me those living Ukrainians who demand federalism from you. I saw Russian citizens demanding federalism from me. I saw the FSBs running, shooting or burning our flags, and they demanded us to break out of Kharkivsk, the Donetsk region of Ukraine. But meet the teachers, go to Harkown University, they'll say, "What the hell is federalism?" The Kharkiv region or the Lugansk region is moving to Russia. Well, hold yourself back in this, in these performances. Friends, people are smarter than the deputies who are here and who make these calls. I'd ask everyone, and whoever's not in a simple political situation, and in a difficult party situation, well, not party ratings, not your MP stuff, think about the country. The situation today is catastrophic. But in this catastrophic situation, there's one plus: we have to do quickly what we haven't done in twenty years. That's the only advantage. So today we must say good - bye to the illusions of previous years. We, Alexander Valentine's Day, have to stop SND membership and stop these conversations that the SND will save us. It's already saved the SND with Russia. We have to say today that there are no men or greens or white pigeons in Crimea. We have an invader standing in Ukraine. And that's why today's Occupational Territory Act, where we have to protect every Ukrainian citizen, because ethnic cleansing has already begun to protect Ukraine's real estate, protect our Artek camps and the sports bases where our athletes train. That's why it's enough to play ambiguous caseuistics, unfortunately, temporarily occupied territory, and we have to protect it. Today we need, Alexander Valentinovich, to create a fund for the protection of Ukraine, as countries have done accordingly. Today, every millionaire, and more billionaire, has to share with the Ukrainian State and pay a special contribution to both the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the financing of Ukraine. No one's funding, no citizens' funding. Make money - help Ukraine today. And finally, I'm convinced that in protecting the Ukrainian state, we should stop today in party and regional opposition. Today, everyone has to understand -- we're in radical statements or on TV or in Parliament, we can only make things worse. So once again, Alexander Valentinovich, Parliament passed only agreed bills. And we vote by all factions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u22	Thank you. From the Freedom faction, Oleg Tuggnibok is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u23	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! The shame we feel today is that for many years the Ukrainian state has been doing the wrong thing. The Ukrainian authorities were not taking steps to protect national sovereignty but were making a covenant position, including with regard to the Kremlin. There was no illustration, no cleansing of authority in our country. And that's why we have a bunch of Kremlin agents in different branches of government right now. We have a bunch of Kremlin agents in the service environment, special divisions. And with that baggage, do you think we can win the war? Our country was constantly talking about a certain degree of tolerance. And in fact, it's pseudo-tolerance. The only spirit of the Ukrainian people was not formed! That's why we lose on all fronts, society! That's why we're losing the information war! That is why we cannot really protect our nation, our people. We are talking too much right now about the need to protect so - called Russian - speaking. It's like they've ever been insulted in Ukraine. Why are we not saying that there are Ukrainians in a troubled state today, including in occupied areas in the Crimea? Look, a letter came to the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by Archbishop Kharkivsky and Poltava Igor Isichenk. Let me quote. "There has been a paradoxical situation where there is constant talk of protecting the Russian-speaking part of our population, which really needs protection only from forced manipulation of its moods from abroad. At the same time, the Ukrainian majority of the inhabitants of Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lugansk regions are being subjected to gang attacks and constant psychological pressure. In human places it becomes dangerous to communicate in Ukrainian, to have national symbolism, and to make public thoughts other than slogans imposed by Russian media. ” Why don't we talk about protecting Ukrainians? About protecting Ukrainians on their own land, society? And that's what we need to talk about. Thus, the cleansing of power must be immediately approved by law. Our faction suggested that we consider it next week. And one more thing. Today, rumors of bribes for new assignments are spreading widely. I call on everyone. Society, don't give bribes, because it wasn't for that! I demand punishment for those who take bribes! And so, if you know, I'm talking to everyone about cases of bribery in new appointments in the new government, "Freedom" opened up a hot line. I'm asking you to record the phone. We will severely punish all bribes and villains!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u24	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u25	0800502931 is a hotline. Please provide information about possible bribes, possible bribe schemes. We want to build the kind of power that could destroy all those bandit schemes that were before that, that were destroying the state budget. More. Some countries have come to recognize this referendum in Crimea, the pseudoferendum, including information about Kazakhstan and Armenia. We demand that our ambassador be promptly called back with a report for consultations in those countries, or that their ambassadors be summoned to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide explanations. Then, if we do the illustration, the cleansing of power, we don't succumb to pseudo-tolerance, we keep the Ukrainian-national true line, then we can win. And we're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u26	Thank you. From the non-fractionals, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Comrade Horin, he's coming out, asking what Crimea lost? Why are there separatists in Kharkiv? Where did the separatists come from in my native Harkow? I'll tell you where. From Belgrade and from Kurska, which travels with Russian flags Why are Russian invaders in Crimea? Yes, because your Yanukovich has called on Putin to bring in troops! That's what the invaders in Ukraine are doing! Yes, because your party of regions reported by Mayor Herson today in Herson County is initiating a referendum on Crimea! So I demand that the bans of the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party as criminal organizations working for the invaders today, such as the fascists during the war, were Hitler's manuals, so today the Communists and the Russian invaders' manuals! So don't come out here and tell me how much you love the country! Stop supporting the enemy! Stop supporting the invaders! Stop blocking the Ukrainian troops! Stop funding Separatist shares! And there will be order in Ukraine, and there will be peace in Ukraine. Dear citizens of Ukraine, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! My clear suggestions to stop Russia's military aggression. I propose that diplomatic relations with the Russian Federation be terminated immediately. The visa regime has already been implemented, correct. But it had to be done earlier. I demand the denunciation of the Kharkiv Agreements for the continuation of the Black Sea fleet in Crimea since 2010. And the agreement on the presence of the fleet itself in Crimea since 1997. I propose nationalizing Russian property in Ukraine, as they do with our property in Crimea. I offer to recognize Crimea as a temporarily occupied territory. And this bill will be considered. I propose to Parliament that it be decided without delay to refer to NATO for accession to this international security organization. I propose to take a decision by Parliament to restore Ukraine's nuclear status. I propose to the United Nations to exclude Russia from the Security Council of the United Nations. I call on you to ban the Company, the Party of Regions as a guide to the invaders. I suggest we step up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u28	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u29	I'm done. I propose to increase criminal responsibility for secession, treason, espionage, and the blocking of military forces. Finally, I propose to implement the decision of the National Council and to ban the broadcasting of Russian channels, which are propaganda hubs, which are elements of the war declared by Russia against our people. And the last. I refer to Ukrainian citizens who take Russian passports for 300 dollars, take part in separatist rallying, call for the unification of parts of the territory from Ukraine, and call on Putin to bring Russian troops to Ukraine. I'm addressing these citizens personally, if you don't like living in Ukraine, if you want to split Ukraine, if you want Ukrainian land to be trampled on by an occupier's boots, give up Ukrainian citizenship. We'll buy you a one-way ticket and go to your favorite Russia: The car, the Magadan, the Chukotka, and so on. I'm proposing to the authorities to take firm action against separatism, the dissipation of Ukraine, the attempted capture of military forces. Ukraine is in a state of war! Ukraine will only win if we defend ourselves when we defend ourselves. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I ask you to sit down in your workplace and now determine how you vote on the maintenance of the agenda that we should consider today. I would like to remind you that these are very important issues related to the Declaration on the Fight for the Liberation of Ukraine, and this relates to laws that have been discussed by many who have spoken about the rights of citizens in temporarily occupied territories. This is also true of the issue of the support of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian State. Dear colleagues, there is a request to maintain the established agenda. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[10:41:12]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party 27, Parenthood 71, Impact 21, Economic Development 29, Sovereign European Ukraine 29, 30 Freedom, 0 Company, non-fractional 34. Dear colleagues, I understand that we have many colleagues who have made up their ways, and the new deputies have not yet entered the session room. I hope this happens at the beginning of the next sessional week. So let us work together and act responsibly. Dear colleagues, according to the declaration. Let me put out her text. That's our first question. Declaration on the struggle for the liberation of Ukraine. "On March 18, 2014, the President of the Russian Federation signed under the so-called 'Contract on the Entry of the Republic of Crimea and the City of Sevastopol into the Russian Federation'. In the pompous atmosphere of Georgia’s Kremlin Hall, with a frank appeal to the entire world, Russia has taken the liberty of violating not only the current legislation of sovereign Ukraine but also the fundamental norms of international law enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, the Statute of the Council of Europe, the 1975 NBS Final Act and other summary documents of the NBS/OSCE, the 1991 Commonwealth of Independent States, the 1991 Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 5 December 1994 between Ukraine, the United States, Russia and the United Kingdom on the Non-nuclear Status of Ukraine, the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. For the first time since the end of World War II, the generally recognized borders of Europe are cynically "painting" a country that, under multilateral and bilateral treaties, guaranteed the territorial integrity of Ukraine, the integrity and integrity of its borders. The Supreme Council of Ukraine draws the attention of the governments and parliaments of the world, international organizations and the world community, that the Ukrainian people never recognize the annexation of an integral part of their territory — the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, captured by Russia with brutal violations of fundamental norms, international law and the universal principles of state coexistence. The Supreme Council of Ukraine urges all members of international society to refrain from international recognition of the so-called Crimea Republic and the annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol to Russia as new subjects of the Federation. On behalf of the people of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine claims that Crimea was, is, and will be, part of Ukraine. The Ukrainian people will never, under any circumstances, stop the fight for the release of Crimea, however difficult and lasting it may be. Ukraine will prevail because God is with us and the truth." [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Can we vote on the Declaration? We can. Please identify yourself by voting and support the Declaration on the Fight for the Liberation of Ukraine (Decision No. 449,80). Please vote. [[10:45:11]] For 274 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Thank you for supporting the Declaration on the Fight for the Liberation of Ukraine. Please, by the factions. Region Party 29, Fatherland 76, Impact 31, Economic Development 32, Sovereign European Ukraine 32, Freedom 32, Company 0, non-fractional 42. Dear colleagues! You will be presented with a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for guarantees of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian State. I would ask the author of the decree of the People's Deputy Peter Prashenko to step out of the rostrum, and you, my fellow dignitaries, to support us to consider this project in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure for consideration of this matter, please. With the factions, fine. [[10:46:13]] For 240 Decision taken. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u31	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the Supreme Council's decree on the Supreme Council's application to guarantee the rights of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian State is proposed. Dear friends, today is a special day that can become historic for both the Crimean Tatar people and Ukraine and the whole world. In these times, when Ukraine experienced aggression, when the Crimean Tatars, along with the Ukrainian military, and the Ukrainians, became clear about the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation, they made clear the illegality and illegality of the so - called referendum and did not take part in it. We must guarantee the protection and realization of the inalienable right to self - determination of the Crimean Tatar people in the form of a sovereign and independent Ukrainian state. Finally, Ukraine should pay off Crimean Tatars, not in words, but in real action to guarantee the preservation and development of the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of the Crimean Tatar people as the indigenous people of Ukraine. We also stress the respectful treatment of the rights of all Ukrainian national minorities and strongly condemn any attempt to restrict the political, social rights of Ukrainian citizens who live in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of different ethnic backgrounds, such as Ukrainians, Russians, Crimean Tatars, Armenians, Bulgarians, Greeks, Germans, Karaites, Crimeans, as a result of the anti-constitutional referendum and aggression that takes place in Crimea in the territory of the sovereign Ukraine. We make this decision based on the purposes and principles stated in articles 3, 11, 15 of the Constitution of Ukraine and in the first article.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u32	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u33	and in the first article of the United Nations Statute. We state our support for the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. The text of the Declaration, in addition to other important provisions, deals with demilitarization of lands and territories of indigenous peoples. And I want to draw attention to that separately. And the 30th article of this international instrument makes it clear that no military activity is being carried out on the lands and territories of the indigenous nations. The positions outlined in the draft regulation are understood and widely supported by public organisations and experts. Thus, more than 60 public figures, experts, lawyers from all over Ukraine, from Donetsk to Uzhgrad, representatives of national minority organizations, have been publicly expressed for supporting this document. And they sent an open letter to the leaders of the parliamentary factions to support the initiative of the acting President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the two drafting orders that this ruling is taking on the basis of the committee's deliberations. In the fourth paragraph, instead of the words "the Supreme Council is tasking the Cabinet of Ministers to begin the process of accession" -- it is impossible to join the United Nations Declaration; it has already been voted on -- is replaced by the words "the Supreme Council declares its support for the Declaration of the Rights of Indigenous Peoples." And in the sixth paragraph, we bring the editorial end of this paragraph to the wording set out in the Constitution of Ukraine and, in particular, "in accordance with international law, human rights standards, indigenous peoples and national minorities." The drafting of relevant laws and regulations should take place through mandatory consultations with the Majlis Crimean Tatar people, in close cooperation with the United Nations Organization, the Organization for Security, Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe in accordance with international human rights law and human rights standards, national minorities and indigenous peoples. Please support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u34	Thank you. Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Please, the committee is headed by the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, the national relations of Paccan Valeriy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u35	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, good afternoon, national deputies. The Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations yesterday, at an extraordinary meeting, reviewed the draft application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for guarantees of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people in the Ukrainian State (registration number 4475), introduced by national deputy Prashenko Petr Alexiyovich. The draft decree was designed to restore the rights of the Crimean Tatar people as the indigenous people of Ukraine, forcibly displaced from Crimea. The decree provides for the establishment of the principles of State policy and the powers of state authorities and local self - government authorities in the area of the restoration of their rights. The adoption of a decree will help to bring national legislation into line with international standards. The committee considered it at its meeting and asked for the results of the first reading of the decision on the basis and in general. But I would ask you, Mr. Head, and all the national MPs: let's move from the declarations to the adoption of a special law on the deportation rights of the Crimean Tatar people. Yesterday the committee considered this legislative act number 0921, and we demand that this act be put to the vote as soon as possible, which will translate from the moment of the Crimean Tatar Declaration and speculate on their special status, give them special compensation, give them special legal provisions and ensure the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. This legislative act has been in the Supreme Council for over 15 years, let us accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. People's deputy Kaplin, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u38	Please turn on Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I think before, indeed, today we should apologize to the Crimean Tatar people that for the first time at this level we are discussing the problems of this people in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also have to mention honestly that Ukraine has remained one-on-one for 20 years with the problem of bringing this great people back to their original land, the Crimea. And Stalin, who once brought the Crimean Tatar people to Siberia, and the successor country Russia of that regime, the Soviet regime, never helped the Crimean Tatar people and Ukraine to solve these problems. And that is why it is very important today that we discuss this issue again and resolve it. The strike faction fully supports the adoption of this decision, because, in fact, it just solidifies the fact that the UN Declaration, which was voted and adopted in September 2007, is now coming into effect in Ukraine. Moreover, we believe that, in general, the rights of the indigenous peoples of Ukraine, particularly the Crimean Tatar people, as the people of Crimea, must be established by law. And so, Alexander Valentine's Day, we ask you that the next step is to enact the law. Vitaly Klitschko and our faction have developed it, registered it today, and thus we are already at the legislative level to ensure that every Crimean representative of the Crimean Tatar people knows that Kiev and Ukraine do not leave this temporarily occupied territory. We will solve all the problems of this people, we will fight at all levels for liberation from the invader and the aggressor! But what is important is that the State of Ukraine must not only strengthen this status but also commit itself to supporting the people and resolving their key cultural, humanitarian, and social.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I think it's a very important question, and I'm going to have this law incorporated into the order of the day next week. Please, dear fellows! From the Freedom faction, National Deputy Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u41	Dear Ukrainians, the most honorable of all. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will support all initiatives that are related to the problems of the Crimean Tatar population and the people of the whole, who have an ancient God-given land. The Crimean Tatar people remind me of the absolute people of Ukraine, who also face problems of protecting their territory, their land, their language. And the problems of the Crimean Tatar people are absolutely identical to those of the people of Ukraine. In this, we have an amazing understanding of them. We understand how important these questions are. When our committee was hearing about the problems of the Crimean Tatar people, and we were going to Crimea, and I was very surprised to learn that more than 300,000 people of Crimea had State guarantees and programs that helped our Ukrainian State to relocate to Crimean Tatars and repopulate the territory. It turns out that by dividing these costs, each resident of the Crimean Tatar nation received eight bracelets a year. Just think about it. Eight bracelets a year. How many schemes have been made in view of the electricity, how many villages there are, how many villages they live in, and what conditions the Crimean Tatar people live in, it's simple. I think we must, we realize that the situation is extremely difficult right now, but to support the Crimean Tatar people in their desire to live normally on their God - given land, we must do so. And I think it's important that the question that will be raised next week, where we'll be first reading adopting the law that Mr. Jemiliev has prepared. I think we'll take him. Because it is a law to save a great, beautiful nation. One more thing, the most important of all, is that we, together, quickly, do not waste time, do the things that are essential for the great power of the Ukrainians. We are, and I think we're together. When we're together, we'll do everything we can to get in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u42	Please, from the faction of the Party of Regions National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the Party of the Regions will support all legislative acts aimed at approving and securing the rights of the Crimean Tatar people. We also call on politicians, political parties and factions not to divide themselves into political apartments right now and not to draft new bills on this, but to support a bill that was approved yesterday by the committee and that is consistent with the Crimean Tatar people, and which was worked on, inter alia, by colleague Jemiliev, and which guarantees the Crimean people, the Crimean Tatar people with broad rights. It's a shame we didn't do it three weeks ago, and it's a shame we didn't do it three years ago. And it must have been until Crimea was occupied, that we might have taken hold of these laws. But it's better late than never. The Party of Regions will support all the legislative acts and all the bills, as well as the decree of Peter Prashenko's authorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u44	Thank you. National MP, Jeremeyev of the Sovereign European Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u45	Dear Head! Please pass the word to Donya Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u46	Please turn on Alexander Donya's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u47	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The Group "Supreme European Ukraine", of course, will fully support this decision. We think it's not just a necessary act, it's an act of repentance on our part to the Crimean Tatar people. Because in 23 years of independent Ukraine, the necessary steps have not been taken, including those described in this decree on the recognition of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, the recognition of Kurultai of the Crimean Tatar people, and the support, including the facilities. I'll remind you that the Crimean Tatar people are made up of three groups: legs, jabel, and Dad. So, dads and jabs, they live in the mountains and in the southern Crimea. They were not allowed on their soils! Obviously, what the Ukrainian State has not done in 23 years is now, at least from a moral point of view, we must repent. And this decree, thank you Peter Dusty, has been introduced into this room. I've got a specific line. In paragraph 4, we recognize Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people as the executive organ of Kurultai. There's an agreement with both the author of the decree, Peter Prashenko, and the reverend Mustafa Jemelov. We have yet to record that we also recognize the Crimean Tatar people's Kurultai as the higher representative body of the Crimean Tatar people. This is an amendment to paragraph 4. Please support this. Once again, it's agreed. And the next. It's for discussion. In addition to the decision itself, we need the Cabinet of Ministers to see our government predict the same involvement of Crimean Tatars in the executive branch. It's not going to be the case. But we have to understand. Could be organized A Nationality and Migration Committee could be set up, either by Chubarov or by Jemiliev. We can provide for the positions of deputy ministers, such as the Ministry of Culture, the heads of government, who are advised by Kurultai or Majlis. This should be foreshadowed, not only by decrees, but also by actual actions, including involvement with executive authorities. Thank you. And our group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u48	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Wozniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Mustafa Jemiliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u50	Please, Reverend Mustafa Jemiliev. Please come to the rostrum of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u51	Dear National Deputies! Our fellow national MP, Peter Poroshenko, offered the Supreme Council a very relevant and useful document for consideration. All the points of the Supreme Council's statement are important, such that they outline the way forward in the process of restoring the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and in the whole of the democratization of Ukraine as a modern state building its future for the people, its citizens of all nationalities. Crimean Tatars, along with Ukraine, are experiencing times of testing for stability and commitment to the principles of the civilized world under the extraordinary pressure of an horde that occupied Crimea and tried to undermine the peaceful life and other regions of Ukraine. The protection of the rights of the indigenous Crimean Tatar people, whose Fatherland is Crimea, under international law, among other things, will give our State additional legal weight in the international arena to influence the aggressor. By implementing steps-by-step all the points of this statement, Ukraine will create a new reality that will reveal all the possibilities of law and justice. Finally, I would like to say the following, not directly related to the question of what is being considered. Today, it has become known that some of our colleagues who have been elected from Crimea form the mandates of the people’s representatives to Ukraine’s higher legislative body. In such a situation, I call on the entire membership of Parliament, every Ukrainian national MP to become personal representatives of villages, villages, cities, towns and districts of Crimea. We all need to pay our daily attention to the needs and pain of Ukrainian citizens who are left in occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u53	Look for ways to provide qualified assistance, both directly in Crimea and here in the capital, to take part in the development of decisions and measures that are approaching the time of our release. Let this task become a daily work for each of us, together with government authorities, social organizations, and international structures. Thank you for the attention and glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from "European Ukraine" asks for the word of the People's Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, the thing is, I've been recording, well, something's not registered. Our parliamentary group, Economic Development, is proposing to support the decision of colleague Peter Prashenko on the basis and as a whole. But I pay particular attention to the need to sign this decree, to the author's own comment on the new edition of paragraph 4. That's very important, because in that case, it's going to look more legal. The point is that the declaration that we refer to was adopted in the form of the UN General Assembly Resolution and Ukraine was obtained in the vote for it. But that does not mean that she does not accept the terms of this declaration. It is enough to do just what the author proposes today in this statement by the Supreme Council to confirm. It's about 0921. Remember, colleagues of the sixth vocation, we voted in the last vocation in the first reading. I'll remind you. The situation with discussion and acceptance in the first reading was difficult, tense, but we were able to find voices in the session room and find arguments for this law to be adopted in the first reading. So I think the profile committee and Hanna Mikolayevna Herman, who just spoke, are right. This law needs to be introduced into the session room, but it is imperative to take into account the serious comments that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has with the aim of preventing us from reprocessing it. Therefore, this determination must be made in general and on a basis. Because we have a great example -- Crimea, hundreds of years live on a multinational basis. And in Crimea, this multinationalism is being treated with extreme care. And this will be a wonderful example for all of Ukraine, that we understand and realize that Ukraine is also a multinational state. And we need to ensure equal rights for all people so that everyone understands and realizes that they are the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u56	Thank you. From the non-fractional, Popescu People's Deputy. Please pretend for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Popescu, Cherniewec region. Fellow dignitaries, we support the adoption of this decree. We discussed every single item on the committee yesterday. And there's an editorial amendment that he agreed with both the author and the committee. In paragraph 6, we need to bring it in line with article 11 of the Constitution. And the last point, the final sentence, should be completed in this way: not by national minorities and indigenous peoples, but by indigenous peoples and national minorities. Because in 1996, when we adopted the Constitution, it was this formulation that was anchored. "Kingdoms" as a word that refers both to nations and minorities. And second moment. I fully support the introduction to the Supreme Hall of Ukrainian Law No. 0921 on the restoration of the rights of persons deported by national status. We've been working on it. And this enables not only the Crimean Tatars who were deported but also representatives of other nationalities: Ukrainians, Poles, Romanians, Germans, and others. I ask today to vote in favour of this decree. And next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u58	I see. In the coming week, pass this law. I understand your offer. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down. We will now be determined by voting. Now I'm asking you to turn on the author's microphone for Peter Dustenk's ruling. And clearly record the changes we make in the decision to take it as a basis and as a whole. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u59	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. The 4th paragraph, once again: instead of the words "the Supreme Council of Ukraine assigns" the final edition, "The Supreme Council declares its support for the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples". But at the third point, "Ukraine recognizes Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, the executive body of the Crimean Tatar people, and Kurultai as the higher representative body of the Crimean Tatar people." And in paragraph 6, we bring the phrase "standards for the protection of human rights of indigenous peoples and national minorities" into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I hope you've all heard the corrections that we're making to this decision. And please, with these rights, support the adoption of this Order (No. 4475) "The Supreme Council Statement on the guarantee of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people in the composition of the Ukrainian State" is based and in general. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:11:02]] For 283 Decision taken. [[Applause]] From this point of view, please, Olez Donny, about the voting procedure, wanted to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u61	I'm sorry, the card didn't work, and I'm asking you to add my voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u62	Please add the vote of Olesia Donya, who voted in favour. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the next question, the impeccable question of today's agenda. Draft Act on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens in Interimly Occupied Areas of Ukraine. We have two bills with the same name: the draft of the People's Derevyanko People's MP and the draft of the People's MP Sobolev. In addition, respectable colleagues are a project called the People’s Deputy Laska of the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to the content, your colleagues, these are actually very similar questions, they regulate exactly one, the most painful, topic for the Ukrainian people -- this is a situation around the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's why, honourable colleagues, I propose that all three of us consider it together. No objections? I won't. I propose to support the consideration of these issues by means of a reduced procedure, considering the importance and necessity of their immediate adoption. Please support the simplified procedure for addressing these three issues. [[11:12:46]] For 225 Decision taken. It's a procedural question, I recall. I give the floor to the national deputy of Ukraine, Drevijanko Yuri Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, our fellow countrymen are now in occupied territories, these are Ukrainian citizens, military officials, employees who are working and conscientiously implementing the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and serving the Ukrainian people. Our citizens in Crimea now, more than ever, need the support of the state. The invaders take over the homes of the military, send their families out of their homes, from their apartments, create so-called "black lists," actually, the "black lists" of those patriots who opposed the separatist referendum that opposed the occupation regime. I believe that today in this sessional room we should adopt a law guaranteeing military personnel, officials of authorities and executive, and local self - government. Those authorities, which were formed in accordance with the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine, are also members of their families, citizens of Ukraine, who now reside in occupied territories, all social and labour rights, as well as all freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. In order to prevent the arbitrary disposal of property of our citizens and our state in the occupied territory, it is suggested that the rights laid down or registered in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine, committed in violation of the laws of Ukraine, are worthless. At the same time, we must stop spending public funds on those who have gone to the side of the invaders and those who are engaged in collaborationism. It is proposed that their salaries and social assistance be stopped as government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u64	Allowing you to finish the speech is an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u65	This applies exclusively to those who are now working against the Ukrainian people, who are not exempt from legal responsibility today. Dear National Deputies! Today you must more than ever show concern for our fellow countrymen, those who remain in occupied territories. I ask you to stand up for our citizens in Crimea and support this bill. In addition, I would like to say that the Bill of Honorary Fellow Soboljev, number 4473-1, is the same and registered as an alternative, although it essentially sets up a legal regime in occupied areas. At the same time as my bill establishes the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens in temporarily occupied territories. So, Your Honor Alexander Valentine's Day, I ask you to vote for both the bill and the bill, but in essence, these are different bills. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sobolev, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, distinguished radios, television sets! I would like to draw your attention, first of all, to the basis on which the bill was drafted. It is very important to us that the same bill, which was based upon the occupation of the territory, partial occupation of the territory of Georgia, passed through the Venice Commission. We took all the rules that went through the Venice Commission on the basis of the bill that I had introduced. Secondly, what's very important is that in fact, in this bill we've gone from the reverse. We don't limit the rights of citizens who have come out of Ukrainian citizenship, but we do establish the rights of citizens who have remained citizens of Ukraine, despite the pressure, the cleansings that have begun in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The third norm, which I think is already important, is a warning from international organizations that fight money laundering. Regrettably, such areas become launderable pits, where there is the laundering of excise goods, the transfer of money for washing, for example, envelopes and all other things that have a negative impact on the economy of States, not only on the economy of the Ukrainian State, but also on other nations of the world. That's why we've taken into account a number of warnings from the Venice Commission, to organize internationals to fight the laundering of dirty money in order to establish a special legal regime. First. What's his specialty? This is a money transfer, our colleagues have made a warning, but I would like to draw attention to paragraph 2 of this article, where the National Bank will set the order for money transfers. These restrictions are likely to be set only in foreign currencies. Everything about the Ukrainian currency will be in line with the standards of Ukrainian legislation. Transport connections, too, will be a separate normative act of the Cabinet of Ministers to establish a special pass mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u69	Citizens. The same is true for the regulation and protection of property rights, including the rights of state, corporate and private property. Because if we don't write these things out, then in international courts, owners of both private homes and businesses, as well as state property, will not be able to seek justice and a solution to these issues. That's why I'm asking. In fact, the laws are a little bit different in scope: both my bill, and the Láška bill, and the Devyanka bill. So I wouldn't deny that we would vote. Moreover, this is not amending and supplementing the law, there will be no restrictions on the Rules. Then we can expand the list of articles that govern them, and they will no doubt appear. And I would like to suggest that we support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u70	Thank you. National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u71	Oleg Lazko. In connection with the military aggression of the Russian Federation, it is proposed to establish a special legal regime in the territories occupied by the Russian Federation and to use this status for political and economic pressure on the aggressor and those countries that have recognized the legitimate occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in order to force the liberation of Ukraine from foreign military forces. My bill deals with the limitation of economic activity in occupied areas and the responsibility for the illegal use of aggressors and other persons of natural resources, the maritime zone, restrictions on free movement, property rights for immovable property, the protection of human rights and cultural heritage, the activities of illegal authorities, officials and the obligations of the Ukrainian authorities. Dear colleagues, please support the bill. Only, Alexander Valentine's Day, a clarification for the transcript. In the paper where he was registered, the bill is called "The occupied territory – the Autonomous Republic of Crimea". I ask you to make changes to the title of the bill and put it out: "The temporarily occupied territory is the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in Ukraine." Thank you. I'm counting on backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, from the committee, please. Valerius Vasilovich Puckan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, we met at a committee meeting yesterday. The committee accepted the invitation to the Supreme Council to adopt these legislative acts as a basis and to leave the possibility for other national MPs to make legislative acts more objective. I propose, on behalf of the committee, to adopt legislative acts as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u74	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u75	Each of the legislative acts presents a variety of problems. I support what the national deputy Derevyanko just said. We offer to unite them and to introduce one legislative act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to speak on this matter? There's a need. Let's sign up for the performances then. I'll remind you, it's a reduced procedure. Please, from the Freedom faction, National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u77	Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends! I was in Crimea, talking to the criminals. Now I'm doing what I do to help the criminals who are now refugees from this area find their new life, my temporary new life all over Ukraine: both in Kiev, and in Poltava, and in Lviv, and in Ternopol, and in Zitomir. In virtually every area of Ukraine, our fellow Ukrainians, the refugees from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea from Sevastopol, have appeared. We will also remember that part of the Herson region is occupied by Moscow’s Russian invaders. And so we have a very clear vision, a clear understanding that we need to adopt the Law on the Principles of State Policy in temporarily occupied territories. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union in close cooperation with the refugees of the occupied Crimea, with the criminal public organizations that remain and operate in the Crimea area -- we have prepared our proposals, our vision of what our actions, the actions of the Ukrainian State should be in relation to our citizens. We should talk first not even about the territories, but about the citizens of Ukraine who are in occupation, about the citizens of Ukraine who every week, every hour and every minute are now in danger of physical destruction. Therefore, the basis of the humanitarian policy, the social and economic policy of the State of Ukraine relative to the population of its own temporarily occupied territories is the protection and full realization of national and cultural, social, political rights of ethnic Ukrainians, Crimean Tatars and Ukrainian citizens of other nationalities. Nor should we forget that, now that our territories are occupied, we, as the Ukrainian State, should primarily care for ethnic Ukrainians, for no one will take care of ethnic Ukrainians in the occupied territory, the Crimean Tatars, other indigenous peoples, but primarily ethnic Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u78	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy Group of the Sovereign European Ukraine Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u79	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Clearly, a law must be passed. I would like to take note of those points that need to be addressed with great caution, I emphasize, with great caution. When we use the term collaborators, collaborationism, and I've been doing this in scientific terms in my time, I've been faced with people who obviously don't have to go there. During World War II, collaborators were called those people who worked in Kiev to exist, because all the factories were destroyed when the Red Army entered, you know that. Where did people work? They were to feed their families. They were to feed their family. I very much ask you to be careful of what we call collaborationism. Because that's where our people are staying. Do you understand? They have to get paid somewhere. Can we afford them all a salary? If we can, no questions asked. If not, measure it three times, measure it seven times. And in general, laws should be adopted, not on the basis of emotion, but on the basis of a cold mind. Another moment is very important. We are calculating to some extent the bill or law that was used in Georgia in 2008. But there is a big difference. There are no Georgians left in Abkhazia. Practically as a result of the events between Tbilisi and Sukhumi, 300,000 Georgians were forced to leave the area. We have our Ukrainian citizens in Crimea. And all those who spoke here say that they remain faithful to Ukraine, that they remain our Ukrainian citizens. So we need to be very careful when we look at territory, Ukrainian territory, that our citizens are unlike Abkhazia. Another important moment. Not to reproach his colleague, he's emotionally, he's asking the right question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u80	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u81	Respectable, international politics, that's a very delicate thing to do. When we say that breaking up diplomatic relations with all the countries that support someone there, we need to think very carefully. Because it's about Kazakhstan, it's about Armenia, it's probably going to be about some other countries. That is why international politics is not an emotional policy. I propose to support these bills. And the group "Supreme European Ukraine" apparently thinks that the most balanced is the bill of colleague Soboljeva. Maybe you can use it as a basis. Perhaps on his basis, more and more, he stresses, legally verified and balanced to build further activities. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u82	Thank you for the important suggestions and suggestions. Dear colleagues, from the Company National Deputy Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u83	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine stems from the fact that citizens’ rights and freedoms are to be exercised without letup throughout Ukraine. There are a few comments that I wanted to share with my colleagues. And I'd like to draw attention to. First and foremost. I have a question about how correct it is to combine a new law in a single document, and we are adopting this law for the first time, to ensure the rights and freedoms of citizens in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine. So the point is that these two documents are in different, so to speak, weight categories. Hence, attention should be paid to this situation. Otherwise we might have a problem. The other one. I support those colleagues who said there was an effort today to accept all three documents as a basis. But if we're talking about that they're alternatives, we have to accept one document, and everyone else, when we're working on it, we'll take all the positive trends into account. And one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. Dear colleagues, the document is called, well, at least one of the bills is "To secure the rights and freedoms of citizens in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine." We are likely to conclude from the fact that we do not have problems with the exercise of rights and with the realization of rights and freedoms throughout the last territory. Unfortunately, that is not the case. Hence, this moment must also be taken into account. And the last thing I'd like to say. It's about rights and freedoms. Here, from this rostrum, a respected colleague, a radically concerned MP, is already fighting in hysteria for a day, demanding the ban on the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u85	That's his problem because he doesn't know how to ban political parties. But most importantly, I mean, unlike him, I'm a good person. And that's why I'm offering this honorary colleague every question a word. And then in Ukraine, everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u86	Thank you for your advice. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Kirilenko of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u87	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." By the way, I'll start with what the previous speaker finished. Mr. Head, I have introduced and registered Bill 4478, which, in full compliance with the Political Parties Act and the Constitution of Ukraine, proposes to ban the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine in support of territorial integrity and secession. The referendum was not voted down, the release of the Supreme Council of Crimea was not voted down, all applications to international co-operation were not voted down. Even today, the Declaration on the Struggle of the Ukrainian People was not voted on. Why the faction? Let him sit in Gosmud, that's where they belong. Now we're talking about these bills. The world has not admitted that Crimea is now Russia. So the Crimea is occupied. And that's what he admitted, the whole world. So what we're talking about is that Crimea will receive temporary status from our Parliament, we're stressing this very word, the temporarily occupied territory. Everything in this territory belongs to an independent sovereign democratic Ukrainian state. The territory, i.e. land, water, what's underwater, including the continental shelf that the Russians are now trying to steal from us with the energy, what's above the land, or the air space, that's all temporarily occupied and regulated by this law. Yes, there are different people in Crimea. There are those who do not want to be deprived of Ukrainian citizenship and who are already being persecuted. The Ukrainian language in Simferopol is practically forbidden. They no longer know what to do with the teachers of the Ukrainian language in the Tavrian List. The Faculty of Ukrainian Philology at the University of Tavrian has already stopped working. Is this a democracy from Putin? Is it the protection of human rights when Ukrainians are already hiding on their land? Crimean Tatars are at great risk. Today Parliament has accepted a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u88	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u89	Today Parliament has adopted a statement on Crimean Tatars, but we must adopt the Law on the Indigenous Peoples of Ukraine, and these are Crimean Tatars in Crimea. Well, of course there are collaborators in Crimea now, unfortunately, these are the ones who take and tear, and beat the Ukrainian coat of arms - Trident, these are the ones who burn our national blue and yellow flags and help beat and kill our Ukrainian military personnel. Please tell me what to call these people friends, brothers? No, Collaborators. Thus, Soboljev’s law provides for a division of cooperative activity. I propose to take the basis of the Soboljeva bill itself, to vote and then to adopt this law as a whole. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they're asking for statements from factions who haven't been able to register. I'll give two performances from non-faction. Please, Irina Heratchenko, hit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that all of us today are in pain of the fate of Crimea, because temporarily occupied territory is an integral part of Ukraine. And that's why we see several bills in the session room, which are extremely important, they establish support for Ukraine's territory. Similarly, the Impact Act registered Bill 4497/1 concerning the corresponding status of the temporarily occupied territory, where there are important norms that we have not seen, for example, in colleagues, this is also about the holding of elections on May 25th, because Ukrainian citizens have the right to participate in these elections, even though the Kremlin's aggressor wants to take over the election, not only to eat the Crimea. Similarly, we need to do our utmost to take steps in international law to restore the territory of Ukraine and to preserve our integrity. And so, Mr. Chairman, it also seems to us that the law of our colleague Sobolev, the bill, is the most acceptable to make changes to him. But maybe it's right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u93	You see, we think this bill is extremely important for Ukraine, we have to adopt a constitutional majority of 300 votes. So maybe today we should set up a group where two people from factions are included in order to unite, well, it's like a proposal, all these laws on one and Mondays to pass it on such a reading, because it would be right in terms of, well, the testimony of the positions of the entire session hall, of all the factions for the drafting of such a bill. Or on the basis of Soboljeva's bill, make all the same proposals from this author's group so that we can adopt as clear a law as possible, which corresponds to the experience of Georgia and the experience of Azerbaijan, which have the same tragic experience that Ukraine has today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u94	Thank you. From the faction of the regions, please, the People's Deputy of Ljovczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u95	I have listened very carefully to all speakers and rapporteurs on the three bills and all other speakers. The main emphasis is on the property we lose in Crimea, on natural resources. We're talking about money laundering, money laundering and so on. It's like we're interested in property and money. Why don't we talk about the people who live there, and above all, the soldiers. I represent the sixth district, Feodosia and Kirovsky, and Leninsky. So there is a battalion of marines in my district that has not received any clear orders from the Commander-in-Chief, other than the Minister of Defence throughout the crisis. So far, they have received no further orders. People don't know what to do. They did not receive support when threatened by their families. And now they don't understand what's going to happen next. They will leave this territory with no weapons in what status.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u97	And so on. I'm the only one, so I call on everyone when we draft these bills, first of all, to think about people. I support, of course, the Party of the Regions supports the idea that the Law on the Legal Status of the Territory is needed. Because it's an unprecedented case for our country. We will vote for one of the bills on first reading. But we need serious refinements on second reading. And we must take into account the interests of our citizens who remain in these territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Your Honor, the only thing I'm saying is that you didn't listen very carefully to your colleagues' speeches. Because at the heart of these bills, the rights and freedoms of citizens, Ukrainian citizens, who are forced to remain in temporarily occupied territories, are the main emphasis. With regard to orders and coordination, believe me, the Ministry of Defense is constantly in contact with our military forces. I'm in direct contact with the military commanders and they know what to do. Yes, they find it difficult, but they do well to carry out their duties. Please, from the non-fractional National Deputy Rudzkowski and National Deputy Mishchenko. And we'll risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, by accepting this Law, we actually recognize the annexation of Crimea territory. I believe that today we need to adopt the Law on the Integrity of a State, which we would have foreseen for the allocation of the necessary resources in order to get the families of the military out of the Crimea once. Nonmilitary families. The other one. Whatever mobilization is envisaged in sufficient quantities to ensure, say, the deployment of 20,000 reserve personnel to Crimea, the closure of the East of Ukraine, the introduction of an extraordinary state in the South and Eastern regions of Ukraine in order to stabilize the situation and ensure peace for the people. In Crimea, ensure the functioning of the banking system, the legal system, and on this basis negotiate with the Russian Federation. I'm saying once again, they won't shoot a Russian soldier in Ukraine, just like ours won't shoot! But if we have a presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u100	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u101	But if we ensure that the contingent is present in sufficient numbers, it could be the basis for political negotiations and consultations. I don't understand how the Secretary of Defense can't fly into Crimea if I, a national MP, can do that. Sit on the helicopter, sit on the Ukrainian side, talk to the people, give the proper orders! You can't? You don't know? Get out of office! Let him become a minister who can do whatever it takes to support the military to run the Ministry of Defense. It's a disgrace! We're embarrassing! Our ancestors are being turned around now, watching us surrender Ukraine and its integrity without a fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u102	The only thing I'm informing you, Your Honor, is that, unfortunately, the Russians are shooting at the Ukrainians, they are wounded and killed. If you have not heard this, please read the media and listen to what your colleagues say. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th Kyiv County. First of all, we have to accept the procedural question. We have two alternative bills and one separate bill, which is now put to the vote without an alternative. I'm sure they're basically three equal bills. If you look at the substance of these bills, the Soboljeva bill, which also speaks of the rights of people who are now in the Crimea and how to act in this situation, and who should be criminally responsible for what is happening there, those who have gone to the side of the enemy. I am confident that we should support one of the three bills and, on the basis of this bill, complete it in short order for the next session, next week, Tuesday to make one single bill. But what is the basic point of how will this bill be implemented? So I want to draw your attention to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u104	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u105	I want to pay attention to three things. Some bills state that authorities and officials continue to carry out their activities in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution and laws. How? How? The other one. Cooperation between Ukrainian citizens and the invaders How will this be determined? To whom should I pay my pension, to whom should I pay my salary? How can they be drawn to criminal responsibility? We can adopt an empty law, it must be effective. So I'm asking everyone to join us in working on it. But we need to work on the Soboljeva bill, which is exactly what the country needs right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take our seats, we'll make our decisions. The only thing about the suggestions that were made in the hall. First. I want to give the pen a little bit, because one statement says that this law recognizes an annexation. That is to say that this law, like the Supreme Council, as the Ukrainian people, as the entire civilized world does not recognize annexation. And that's why. Anexia is the accession, who knows not, of an illegal accession to another country of the sovereign state. So without admitting an annexation, we recognize this territory as temporarily occupied. That's what this law is about, that's what it's about. The other one. Dear colleagues! As for the three laws that were reported, and the law that Irina Heratschenko spoke of. Of course, we cannot vote on this law as a whole right now. I agree with the speakers that a more extensive law is a law prepared by Sergey Sobolev, along with the Ministry of Justice. At the same time, it is very important to have suggestions in the law that was reported by Derevyanko, a national deputy, and the law that was reported by the national deputy Lazko. In addition, there are proposals that are set forth in the law prepared today by the representatives of the Faction "KARPUNZ'S LAW". So, dear colleagues, here's the deal. So in order for us three or four laws on a close topic, let's take one comprehensive, very serious law. And that's why I'm proposing: first, change his name so that we can clearly cover the two important issues that are regulated in these laws. The proposal for the name is "On the legal regime and the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine". This position is taken, just as we speak of the legal regime and the rights and freedoms of our citizens. So, dear colleagues, here's the deal. I would like to emphasise, on the basis of this short-term draft bill, Bill 4473-1 and to take into account in the drafting of Laws 4473, 4497 and what law number. 4497-1. Is there no objection? None. There is a proposal: to support and vote on the basis of the bill (4473-1), taking into account the proposals I have announced. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and sit in your seats and include the "Council" system for voting. Please support adoption as a basis of law (4473-1). Please vote. [[11:46:32]] For 276 Decision taken. I hope that if we vote on this law as a whole, we will vote by 300 votes of the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, there is also a proposal for us to vote in favour of the brief procedure for preparing this issue, which is too important. Please be supportive. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:47:05]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the factions were asking questions about the Cabinet of Ministers about the anti-crisis program. I'm informing you that this is exactly what Kabmin is working on, the anti-crisis laws and the package of these laws, including the changes to the budget for the current year. I hope they'll be in on Monday. By Monday, more faithfully, the laws that the honourable national deputies had spoken of would have been introduced. The economic situation is critical, that is to say. I'd like to ask the heads of profile committees to activate their work and work with the Cabinet of Ministers on these laws so that we can include them in the agenda on Monday at the Conciliation Council and start making decisions on Tuesday, very difficult decisions, I warn you. At the same time, respected colleagues. I'll give you my word. We're going to have a meeting tomorrow at 12 with the heads of factions, MPs with the economic bloc of the Cabinet of Ministers, where all of these issues will be discussed. We will also invite committee heads to this serious meeting. I see an arm for Oleg Tuggnibok's line. Please, and we will make decisions on how to proceed with the work of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u107	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, there is this proposal: for the next plenary session, consider a number of draft laws that will enhance the state's security, draft laws that have been drafted by Freedom. Requesting the committees to discuss Law 4491 is about amending certain legislative acts to increase the financial security of the State; 4492 refers to the introduction of other costs in calculating the income tax for enterprises to be released so that there are certain benefits in taxing those enterprises that today can voluntarily finance our Armed Forces. There is also a request. For some reason our apparatus registers our Bill on Civil Weapons and Ammunition, as well as Bill 3059, on ensuring that citizens have unimpeded access to the shores of water objects.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u108	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u109	for general water use. This is a bill that will give a very good signal to the Ukrainian Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask again from the strike faction. Also a suggestion for inclusion. Please turn on the microphone. Ginkka, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u111	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. There is still a big suggestion that the next meeting will have to put into order the day’s issues that also relate to the issue of national security. This is Bill 4483, on applying for membership in the European Union, is also an important bill 4354, which envisages the restoration of Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration course. We should also consider cancelling the SND Agreement (No. 0074). So does Bill 4267-2, on assigning the status of participants in hostilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-20-m0.u112	Thank you. That's an important question. Please, Your Honor, I am again addressing the committee leaders. Where there are no committee heads for reasons that are unclear, I turn to the first intercessors and intercessors to ensure the work of the committees. On the heads who do not work, we will make decisions about taking them out of office. Dear colleagues, once again I stress the importance of working with the government on a package of anti-crisis laws. Please, Your Honor, work on the committees, and the Supreme Council will continue its work next Tuesday at 10 a.m.
