ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, guests and invited to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:15]] There are 261 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the national MPs of Firemarck Sergey Alexanderovich, Shapowalov Jury Anatoliyovich and Shawaryan Vilena Grigorovovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that yesterday there were tragic events in Ukraine. Unfortunately, yesterday, we have lost and died again. I'm going to ask Oleg Tuggnibok to inform the people's deputies of the events that have taken place. Please, Oleg Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u2	Honorable Society, Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! But the situation that is currently taking place in the Great Ukraine, especially yesterday, those events that took place in the Donetsk region, they simply require an immediate response from the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament. Moscow’s agencies, militants, and cockroaches are now located in many areas of Ukraine. Our Donetsk activists, the Freedoms, provided information about the whereabouts and survival of the militants who were brought from the Russian Federation, the militants who attacked the Ukrainians' peace rally yesterday, the Donetsk patriots who organized in Donetsk to demonstrate that we want peace, we don't want war, we want a political solution to the conflict that arose in Ukraine today. Regrettably, the law enforcement agencies did not act, unfortunately, the law enforcement officials, who apparently still think that they serve the old system, opened the corridor and released those bandits who were armed with enclosed fittings, finches, and other prison weapons, and simply as a pig, cut people. Several Donets were killed, killed by those thugs, the head of the press service of the Donetsk district organization of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, the assistant consultant of the Ukrainian national deputy colleague Mikhail Blaujko, Dmitry Cherniavsky. Sadly, the medical community was unable to save him. A number of others died as well. Society, we need to stop the vacchanal that is being carried out under the Kremlin here in Ukraine. We need to close the borders immediately so that this agency doesn't penetrate. We need to have an immediate illustration and throw away the whole Moscow agency, which has been running law enforcement agencies in recent years, Ukraine’s Security Service, into the leadership of local authorities. If we don't react now, we already know that there is a great problem in our country, but if we don't react now, it's not just going to be a great disaster, it's going to be a great tragedy for the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian society, the Ukrainian people. I now offer a moment of silence to honor the memory of those dead Dominoes who simply wanted peace and harmony. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Heroes don't die! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry, let me just say, we've already announced this, we're not opening the debate on this issue right now, I think that's understandable. Mr. Yavorowski, I understand, let's move on to the agenda. Today, according to article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, we have an announcement of parliamentary motions on Friday. I will inform the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 60, part 3, of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of my membership in the parliamentary group "Economic Development" Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, before the parliamentary inquiries are announced. And the next announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it reports on the creation of 7 interfractional parliamentary association Platform for Reform in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "Platforma reform" have been elected by the Ukrainian National Deputies: the Tree of Yuri Bogdanović, the Rizanka of Pavel Alexanderovich, the Beneficiary of Yuri Anatoliyovich, the Orphan of Yuri Mikolaiovich and Shevchenka Andrija Vitaliyovich. Dear National Deputies! Allow me to announce the parliamentary questions that have come: Roman Ilik under the responsibilities of the President of Ukraine to grant status to the National Historical and Cultural Reserve of Nagaviwiwich. Dear National Deputies! Please vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[10:08:38]] For-166 Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on sending this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:09:00]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Omeljana Parubka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take steps to resolve the issue of the inaction of prosecutors of the Corsun-Shevchenkov district of Cherkas region. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing, at the expense of budgetary resources, the construction of a pipeline to the village of Velika Kozar of the Romanov region of Žitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of social and economic development subsidies for Žitomirski, Lubarski, Romanovsk, Zitomirsk region. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need for changes to normative documents that regulate the burial of dead (dead) persons who have special merit before the Fatherland, participants in hostilities and persons with disabilities, and documents that regulate the execution of free-of-charge capital repairs to homes (inhabitants) of war and members of families of war veterans who have died. Vladimir Ducca to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the urgent examination of the state’s purchases of phenylketonuria for children. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of conservation of the Kuyalnicki Lymana natural complexes. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the North-South route in Odessa. Lidija Kotelak under the responsibility of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to conduct a prosecutorial review of compliance with the legislation on the natural-intelligence fund in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Anatolia Goncharova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the lift farm of Gorlovka Donetsk Region. Anatolia Goncharova to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the financing of educational institutions in the town of Gorlovka Donetsk region. Sergia Teryochina to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of the laws in force in Ukraine concerning the establishment of small architectural forms in areas belonging to the National University of Bioresources and the use of the natural resources of Ukraine and the National University of Taras Shevchenk and the involvement of officials of the Kiev City Administration who unlawfully granted permission to establish small architectural forms at the educational establishments of the Vosii district of Kyiv. Jacob Besbach to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the State Veterinary and Phytosanitary Service of Ukraine, the State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the possible violation of environmental legislation in the Samar district of Dnipropetrovska. Jacob Besbach to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the need to control criminal proceedings. Oksana Kaletnik under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take action to implement the decision of the Mogilev-Podil Regional Court on the restoration of work in the city of Mogilev-Podil City Library for Youth, the city library for children of the name of Telníuk, Mohilev-Podil City Library No1, No2 and No3, and the renewal of five workers who were released as a result of illegal actions. Oksana Kaletnik under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to carry out an examination of the facts of the arbitrary assignment of authority and failure to execute judicial decisions. Vladimir Dudka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failing to shorten funding for the actions of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child until 2016, which provides treatment for children with nine rare diseases. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the cancellation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's "To transfer the entire assets of state forestry enterprises to the administration of the State Forest Resources Agency" dated July 3, 2013 No. 584. Ruslan Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine regarding the need to carry out a comprehensive examination of the circumstances regarding the failure to execute a court decision in favour of Alla Bulavko. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Railway Administration of Ukraine on the need to review some of the legal and regulatory acts on the organization of workers who serve passenger trains. Lviv Mirimsky to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the misconduct of Deputy Simferopol City Council of Anatolia Petrov as regards the illegal employment of the office building located at Prvotraveva Street, 3, Apartment 15 in Simferopol City, the inaction of officials of the municipal enterprise of the Kyiv People's Association of the city of Simferopol and the executive committee of the Simferopol City Council. Roman Vanzuriak to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lifting of baseless requirements of the State Migration Service for the issuance of documents and payment of payments in the processing and issuance of passports for a Ukrainian citizen to go abroad not provided for by Ukrainian law. Arturo of the Chamber to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to combat corruption and to hold ex-owners responsible, Yanukovič. Sergei Gordienka, acting Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Labour Inspectorate of Ukraine, Head of the Poltava District Public Administration for the protection of the interests of the Society's employees, with limited responsibility for Jaromir-Agro in the Orgitsky region of the Poltav region for the payment of debts from wages and rents from the use of land rations. Igor Miroshnicka, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the prohibition of public and political organizations whose actions are aimed at violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State, undermining its security and inflaming international, racial, religious enmity. Alexander Fitchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the provision of car passes to Krasnoylsk, Russka, Dzhakowci across the state border and granting them international status. Roman Ilik, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency for Unsatisfactory Maintenance of Motorways — General Use of Local Value in the Drogobic Region of Lviv. Mr. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the urgent examination of the corruption activities of the Director of the Department of Cultural Heritage and Cultural Values of the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, Mr. Andrija Wingranowski. Mr. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on open appeals to the separatist powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and on appeals threatening the territorial integrity and constitutional order of Ukraine. Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of a clinic for 300 visits for a change on Street Present, 9, in the city of Radomisli. Valery Cherniakov to the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, for the purpose of causing damage to the state by officials of the authorities of the Kharkiv region of more than 2 million dollars 340,000 dollars. Valery Cherniakov under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal construction of the Zakartat region’s control and law enforcement agencies. Andrija Mishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the service negligence of the heads of the State Customs Service of Ukraine, which resulted in the annual loss of the government budget of 10 billion dollars. Andrija Mishchenka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the fact that the former directors of the Ministry of Revenue and Assembly of Ukraine are under financial pressure, extortion and falsification of criminal matters. Vasil Petovka is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the abuse of the Director of the State Enterprise "Brusturian National Forest Fisheries". Tetjana Sluz to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the removal of the anti-sanitary and emergency condition of the burial pits in the city of Priluka. Tetjana Sluz is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine to take steps to react to the facts of the illegal actions of the pretrial authorities during criminal conduct. Victoria Bullach is under the responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the use of procuratorial measures to protect the rights and legitimate interests of residents of the village of Sloboda in the district of Sumsk. Victoria Bullach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to fund the action envisaged by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Suma Region in the part of the reconstruction and renovation of the municipal centre of the Ochtyr City Centre for Culture and Leisure. Jaroslava Dubnević, head of the Lviv District State Administration, Lviv City Head, for the creation of conditions for the temporary residence of Ukrainian citizens, residents of the South and East, in the city of Lviv and in Lviv. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District Council for the creation of conditions for the temporary residence of Ukrainians, residents of the South and East, in the territory of Lviv. Igor Miroshničnka and Alexander Mirznýchných to the executive responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the removal of Elizabeth Lysnichenko's governing sanction from the management of the assets of the Open Shareholder Association "SELMI" and its involvement in criminal responsibility. Oleg Pankević to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexander Sich, for the unbundling of Soviet archives. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the Everlasting Memory of the Dead Heroes of Ukraine, who gave their lives in opposition to Maidan, namely, the preparation of a draft decision by the Kyiv City Council to rename the Istituto Street in Kiev to the streets of Heaven. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the prohibition of the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products by establishments located within a radius of 300 meters [300 m] from the schools of the Righteous District of Kiev, to preserve the health of the growing generation and to ensure public order. Vasil Samylenk, acting as Attorney General of Ukraine, on the groundless delay in the prosecution of a criminal case on the basis of the raiding of the Open Shareholder Society "Zitomirvodbud". Alexander Mirno and Igor Miroshnink to the Minister of Home Affairs of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Ukrainian State Border Service, Head of the Ukrainian State Migration Service for the Prohibition of Entry into the Territory of Ukraine to Known Russian Actors, Artists and Other Cultural Representatives, who publicly support the military aggression and actions of the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, aimed at destroying the integrity of the State of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the construction of the bridge across the Irsha River in the village of Rižana Volordarsk-Volinski district of the Žitomir region. Sergey Firemarck to the procurator of Odessa, in charge of Odessa’s responsibilities as city chief for violations of citizens’ rights to free access to the sea in Odessa. Bogdan Benjuk to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the social and material protection of persons serving (working) in Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the parliamentary questions that have come. Let us move on to the order of the day’s work. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a list of issues for today's discussion, I ask you to prepare. I'd like the secretariat to invite the deputies to the session room. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act (registration number 4440) amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine concerning the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is being submitted to your consideration. This bill is new, extremely important in view of the situation in Ukraine’s judiciary. We need to put it in the agenda for the announcement. I see the session room is now half empty. That means we don't have a quorum to vote on. So once again, I'm going to ask all the MPs to return to the session room because we're starting our vote now. The importance of the situation in Ukraine is extraordinary. So I'm asking the people's deputies to focus their work as much as possible and get into the session room. I ask the Secretariat to invite all the national deputies to the session room once again. Ladies and gentlemen, let's consult. By the time we get to the second reading, we've got a day's work. I'm hoping that we can start the second reading, just as all the national MPs will do. Is there any objection? It won't. Thank you. So your view is on the draft Law (Registration No. 2143) amending the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Civil Code to limit the time limit for the submission of creditors' claims. I'm the reporter, I'm asking the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich. Is Ivanchuk there? Andrew Volodymyrovich, this is the registration number for you, 2143. Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u4	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration is Bill 2143, which makes changes to article 60 of the Ukrainian Code of Master. The bill proposes to reduce the maximum time limit for creditors to submit applications on their legal claims from 6 months to 3 months. The bill went through a second reading procedure and no amendments were received. I therefore propose to vote in favour of this bill in this paper without a comparative table on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u5	Thank you. We don't have any amendments. Dear Society, can we put it to a vote? No objections? Your attention is drawn to the bill (No. 2143) amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters and Civil Codes on the limitation of the maximum time limit on the submission of creditors' claims -- adopted in the second reading as a whole in the first reading edition. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:25:56]] For 185 The decision is not taken. What are some suggestions? Head of the committee, please, your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u6	Mr. Chairman, I believe that the Supreme Council has been defined by this bill, and there is no need for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u7	Thank you. Let me show you through the factions. The Party of the Regions is 0, Fatherland is 60, Vitalia Klicka is 21, Sovereign European Ukraine is 24, Economic Development is 25, Freedom is 31, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 24. Thank you. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law (Registration No. 2484) amending certain laws of Ukraine to include information on active legal persons and natural persons entrepreneurs in the Single State Register (second reading). The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Entrepreneurship, Regulatory and Anti-Monopoly Politics, Dougel Alexander Volodymyrna. Let's have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Mr. Chairman, I have an offer for you. As for the previous law, which is the European norm, with regard to the law that I'm about to report, we're here to do the practice that we've already had in the Supreme Council. Listen to them and then in the next session vote on these decisions as discussed. I'm asking you to ask this procedural question. You're talking about the Rules, Mr. Communist, remember when you signed in Crimea yesterday that the Company is supporting a referendum in Crimea. So refer to the Rules and the Constitution of Ukraine. How will we make decisions? I propose to the Supreme Council that the procedural question be voted on: to hear the question, and to vote in the session when the number is sufficient. There could be a signal vote, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u9	Okay. Please report, we will then consult with the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u10	After this bill, literally a minute. He doesn't have any amendments to the second reading, it's a procedural question. In order to withdraw, it was not possible to turn to power and fine businesses that were not voluntarily registered, to remove those restrictions as in 2004 and to allow people to voluntarily register with legal and physical persons. Period. There is no amendment to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u11	Thank you. Please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard you, I heard your offer. There is a proposal by the author, head of the committee, for a signal vote from this bill. Taking into account the request of the committee head, your point is that a bill (registration number 2484) should be voted on to amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the inclusion of information on active legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs in the Single State Register. People's deputies, please vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:30:06]] For-183 So now we see that putting a positive decision on it doesn't make any sense. Then, from the proposal now, the head of the committee of voting will be transferred qualitatively to the next one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. I'll send it. I'll send it. Honorable national deputies, aware of the complexity of today’s day, and may the question of the early local elections unite the session hall? Because the number of votes is. Let's try to vote on this issue anyway, which is not a warning. Do we have the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government? Ladies and gentlemen, is there any objection that we may now consider a question that may still allow the session room to unite and make positive and qualitative votes? I'm talking about assigning individual out-of-order local elections. We can, right? We can put. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u12	Thank you, Ruslan Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, we can certainly do this, but if we are fully and 100% convinced that we are going to vote. Because you and I have agreed that we will try to hold a presidential and a wide range of local elections at the same time. For us today is actually the last day we can do this, on May 25. Therefore, in view of these circumstances, we need to be determined, or then we do not vote better, if we do not vote, then, sadly, we will postpone or continue to hold consultations. Because we've had such, unfortunately, a situation that there's been no power in individual locations for almost a fourth year. And the parliament, whose responsibility it is to appoint appropriate elections to local self - government authorities, does not want to do so, because of different objective circumstances and subjective circumstances. So if that's possible, we're voting, if we don't, let's not "cut" that question right now, because it depends on the fate of a large number of our voters who are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u13	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u14	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the absence today of a plenary meeting of the national deputies is unacceptable in the session room. And I'd say more, given the situation in Ukraine today, given the background we're working on, it's a criminal absence of deputies who should be on their jobs. I have a proposal, Mr. Chairman, as an option: please announce for a period of recess, let it be 30-40 minutes, gather the heads of factions, MPs, let them ensure the presence of the national deputies in their workplace, to carry out their parliamentary duties. No, whoever's missing, let it be a mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u15	Okay, thanks. Dear Society, I see we have a discussion that opens up this question. Let's give it a try, Mr. Knazevitch, from the committee, can someone step out of the committee? I mean the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. I think the local elections are just consolidating the session room and allowing us to vote positively today. We will now be able to conduct this vote, which will enable us to start our work with quality. One second. So I'm going to emphasize to our people's deputies, we have 228 regulations, so we have a lot of work to do. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u16	Dear Lord Chairman! I understand, frankly, the need to adopt these regulations, but since the vote will take us more than 200 hours of work, and we still have a whole range of other important issues, the committee at its meeting has called on Parliament and, it is now officially in the committee's address, so that we can consider today ad hoc voting on rural and rural elections, appropriate for rural, rural and urban elections, with one decision and a different resolution. If someone, for example, has an opportunity, a desire not to vote in favour of a council, he has a claim, he can go for the braces and vote separately on that decision. And I'd like to ask that question to consider and support. We are initiating the practice that we have in the courts, which, too, according to the Constitution, have to vote separately, but we are voting together. And those who aren't going to vote, I'm asking you not to tear it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u17	Please, I can see we're having a discussion. I then ask the people's deputies from the faction to sign up for a statement, who would like to discuss the matter. Please. Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u18	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u19	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! We ask that the day-to-day vote of the elections really be put in order by local councils, city heads and village heads. And we also ask that today, at last, the suffering Chercas have the same right to choose the mayor on May 25th and the town council. Imagine that the city has been without mayors for a year now, the miscreant is dissolved, the governor is on the run. We're just leaving a 300th city in chaos and there's the ultimate guilt of the Supreme Council. So from our faction and from other factions of democracy, we ask that we put the day's vote in the Chercas to order, and we ask our colleagues in all factions to vote in the same way. And to the Cherkasians, who I know are looking at the Council Channel, we appeal, there was someone else who voted for the communists for half a percent and so much for the Party of Regions. Please note, then, how these factions are going to vote for the elections in Chercas today. And don't ever give them a voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Here's to the words of the People's Deputy Knazevitch, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Regrettably, let us make an objective observation of the fact that Parliament deliberately refuses to perform its constitutional duties by assigning elections to local self - government authorities. Thus it cannot be that for years we have always found circumstances that prevent us from fulfilling our constitutional obligation. This is not our right, my friends, this is our constitutional duty. It's a problem, in fact, that individual MPs don't want to vote, and that's why we can't put most of it together. Friends, if we can't settle on such matters, we need to think about what to do next. I think it's a radical thing to do at that time, and in the event that we change the Constitution, take away the Parliament of this right and give the Central Electoral Commission the right, let it automatically solve this issue and care for our constituents, as appropriate, if we, the national representatives, do not want to take care of our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u23	Thank you. Welcome to the words of Martinjuk Leonty Svetoslavovich, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u24	Please pass the word to my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u25	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u26	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I would like to remind all the deputies in the Hall that we are obliged, I stress, to be in a position of faction, to allow more than two hundred people in Ukraine to choose their representatives. And the offer of Kniazewicz and the proposal of the committee are entirely appropriate. We choose by the ad hoc procedure. There are observations at individual locations, please in an individual order. And the fact that we're in this situation today, where there's actual intervention in the country, we don't go to work at all, we don't even have to take explanations. People need to understand who is not at work, why they are not. And it's either patriotism or non-patrioticism. So please fulfill your obligations. It's not desire, it's commitment. Work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u27	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Zurawski, the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, if you do not know how to do it, do it by law. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, each decree shall be voted on separately. I fully agree with the deputies who are pressing issues, and the authorities of local self - government should have their own paralegals. No question. But I would like to point out that we have 258 people in the coalition: three factions, two groups, and individual national MPs. I would like to invite the chairman to gather representatives of three factions, two groups and representatives from non-fractional groups and to ensure the appearance of deputies. And in general, I would ask you to give an assignment and print in the Voice of Ukraine to all those who don't go to work. Shame on them!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u29	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Donya, the group "Supreme European Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished TV viewers! Well, just so you know, we're being bullied and bullied. I've got a day's work in my hands. There's no question about the Crimea and the East. Yesterday in Donetsk, people were killed, the day after the pseudo referendum in Crimea. There is no question in the daytime on Crimea and the East. Where is the question of the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Crimea? Where is the question of closing borders? The only option is to announce a break now, gather the faction leaders, think about what questions we can raise in East and Crimea, and gather deputies at this time so that the faction leaders can gather a quorum. Other than that, I don't understand why the Supreme Council of Ukraine doesn't even consider them on current issues. Renaming cities is the most up-to-date question? The election is now the most up-to-date question, or is East and Crime the most important issue now? I don't understand the inaction of us, sirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u31	Thank you. He raised his hand to the sand. Please. Let's finish this discussion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u32	Thank you. Popescu, Cherniewec region. In order to restore the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council, high-level colleagues need to discuss all issues and agree with factions’ leaders every day with the question being raised in the Hall, which will receive the absolute majority. If we don't do this, we're going to have a situation where the Supreme Council won't vote, it won't make a decision, it's the first nuance. Second shade. Now I support the idea that we have to take a break, gather the heads of factions, and take another walk at every point that's in the agenda today. And the second point is to think about the issues that would unite Ukraine. We need to give this signal right now and to places that we don't have to do the dissension, we need to stop this all that is happening now in order to unite Ukraine around the main one -- what unites us all. So I propose to take a break now and during this break to announce that all the national MPs who are both in the Supreme Council and outside the Hall should come here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u33	Please, one last speech. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u34	Rudzikowski, 210 constituency, head of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to all of you. When we went to the elections, we promised to be responsible and to carry out our parliamentary duties conscientiously. In this, extremely important time for the state, we must demonstrate that we are able to work effectively. I appeal to all those who have not come to the Hall, who are now sabotaging Parliament's work, to participate in the vote. I'm calling on the Bureau: please appoint a meeting of the Supreme Council on Saturdays and Sundays, because we understand that every day something extraordinary is going on in the state. I think it's necessary to listen to the minister of the interior today about events in eastern Ukraine, to take extraordinary measures so that all of this will never happen again. Close the border, declare a state of emergency in areas that may need other steps, including mobilization, to preserve the peace, the integrity of the state. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u35	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u36	And the last. I'm speaking to the chairman again: go to the Minister of Internal Affairs, release the office of the Communist Party, and we'll have another 30 votes in Parliament that will work effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u37	All of them? I see that there are arms. Let's do it. Let's do it. Oleg Lazko, Kaplin, in a minute. And let's keep working the daytime.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am addressing the citizens of our long - suffering Ukraine. Today, our home country is in grave danger. Today, the occupier’s boot beats the native Ukrainian Crimean land. And what do we see? Parliament, which calls itself Ukrainian, does not actually work. Deputies from Crimea, from Luhansk, from Donetsk, we see no joy. We cannot see the protection of Ukraine’s national interests. I'm asking Ukrainian society, I'm asking Ukrainian citizens: do we need in these times, lethal to Ukraine, an ineffective parliament, where we spend hundreds of millions of dollars in maintenance? That's why everyone comes to the hall and they work, or this Parliament doesn't need Ukraine, and we'll take it to the villas. In times of threat, in times of deadly danger, the Supreme Council must be the center that will save Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u39	Please, Caplin. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u40	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! I see that to solve this situation with the absence of individual national deputies, the systematic absence of individual national deputies in the Parliamentary Hall, I initiate the following thing. I will introduce a bill for which, if a national MP does not appear for a good reason during the week, his mandate should be revoked. I want to ask the Communists the following. Where is your leader, Peter Simonenko? He's not at work for two weeks. What's he getting paid for?Oh, my God! What does he do in the regions? And I demand that you today make it clear that your Crimean Communist organization from today is illegal! For taking Putin's position on holding a referendum in Crimea. Today, now. If you do not do so, your stay here will be criminal, illegal, and proselyte!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u41	Dear National Deputies! Let's finish the discussion. I would like to ask the head of the Committee on State Building and the local self - government of David Vajawicz Zwiani. Let us consider the question of the appointment of out - of - turn elections. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u42	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government at the meeting on March 12, 2014, discussed the appointment of separate out - of - turn city elections. First of all, I would like to inform you that the committee has prepared and registered seven drafts of the Election Orders: Cerkas city head of the Cherkas region, Krasnoarmian City Head of the Donetsk Region, Preyaslav-Hmelnicki city head of the Kyiv region, Rociststen city head of the Wallinsk region, Petachat city head of the Petathite district of Dnipropetrovsk district, Monastir city head of the Monastir district of Ternopil district, Hotin city head of the Hottin district of the Cherniewice region. The committee proposes to appoint these city heads for Sunday, May 25, 2014. The Committee unanimously invited the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a separate review and vote on draft regulations with registration numbers 4407-4412. Please place each decision separately for the vote and support the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u43	Thank you. Any questions to the reporter? Please turn on Ruslan Knyazevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u44	I approached you yesterday on behalf of the Krasnoarmian region of Donetsk. It continues to be like an accusation against a city’s head. Have these facts been verified? If checked, is it really happening? So you know we can't vote until all the lawsuits are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u45	We're on the same committee, if there's any warning, we can take that question. But on the committee, you and I voted together, and there was every reason for that. If anything has arisen, I ask you to provide proper documents and we will consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u46	Please turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u47	David Vajajevic, in the Cherkas case, let's look for a solution that will allow us to restore the system of local self-government. You know our position with Irina Heratchenko and with the deputies from Cherkashchina. We believe that matters today seem to have no city head or city council. And the city council itself turned to us, giving us the opportunity to choose the city's head and the city council at the same time. I understand that there is ambiguous interpretation of one rule of law. So my proposal, or we're looking for consensus today, and I don't know any factions that are against the election of the city's head and city council at the same time, no MP to tell me he's against it. So either we make a consensus decision about the simultaneous election of the city council and the city council, or we're looking for a formula for how the decision on the election of the city head to be able to vote on the 25th and the city council. Otherwise, there is no point in holding elections. It's nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u48	I completely agree with you. We've been looking at this question on the committee. All agree unanimously that elections and councils should be appointed at the same time. But there's a little nuance. We don't have a pass. And there's no passing the mayor. And the governor, as we've heard, will be assigned right away. And if he gives up trouble, then the process will be completely clean. And we will have no doubt. In principle, if there's a consensus decision in the room, we don't have any warnings either. Because all the documents are there. It is not enough for the mayor to turn to him or the governor to turn to him. They both have authority. But we don't have this document for technical reasons yet. So let's do that. We will now vote on the head. I think the governor will be appointed by Monday. We're going to get it, and the process is going to be completely clean. We're voting on Monday-Tuesday for the election of the Council in Cherkas. If you agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u49	Dear National Deputies! Let's get to the vote. We'll see if our elections are consolidating the session hall. I'm asking everyone to come back to the session room again. I think it's more important to be in the session room now, not in the classrooms, and to show your attitude. So there's a signal, people's deputies are returning to the session room. Let's go to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. We've reached out to the deputies, the national deputies will now vote, we hope so. They also understand that elections are an essential part of a democratic society. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Decree (registration number 4407) on the appointment of the ecclesiastical head (city of Cherkasa). The Cherkas region) May 25, 2014 – on the basis and in general. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:54:39]] For 221 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come back? There is a request to return to this project. Ladies and gentlemen, we are questioning the return to the vote of Bill No. 4407. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:55:15]] For 226 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4407) on the appointment of the successive elections of the Çerkasi city head (Cherkasi district) on May 25, 2014. Please vote. [[10:55:46]] For 232 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4408) on the appointment of the Red Army City Head (Krasnoarmian City Council of the Donetsk Region) on May 25, 2014. Please vote. [[10:56:17]] For 201 The decision is not taken. What are some suggestions? No suggestions? I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 4409) on the appointment of the successive elections of the Preyaslav-Hmělnické Měszných (City of Preyaslav-Hmělnický Kyivský Region) on 25 May 2014. Please vote. [[10:56:51]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Please turn on the Zarubinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, we are now making another mistake when some MP is yelling about "stop voting," or "stop voting," with the profile committee speaking, considering all the questions and asking us to announce the presidential election. So doing these exact things, you know, that kind of negative character, they cause the following negative effects in voting. I suggest that if we trust the profile committee, we go this way. And when there was a vote on the Red Army, if there were no objections to the profile committee, we should vote. And if the deputy wants something, let him come to the committee meeting and speak, not here. So I suggest we go back to those votes where we didn't win 226 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer. Let's do it again, already hall, in principle, consolidated, we have almost a positive vote. Let's try to reintroduce to the agenda the most fundamental question we have today is that it is a change in the judicial system. This inclusion question will show how well the session room is ready to work today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to include in the agenda the draft Act (Registration No. 4440) amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine concerning the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. We're talking about getting into the daytime. Please identify yourself and show it. Please vote. [[10:59:03]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. Please turn on MP Novak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the entire room, including the faction of Communists and factions of regions that are currently not voting for elections to city, village, rural councils. You've talked a lot about taking care of the regions today, giving more rights to places, we should be delegating then. But what can we talk about today when we are depriving communities of the right to local self - government? And I'm asking you, and I'm asking you, let's show, nevertheless, consciousness and let's give the communities the opportunity to hold the May 25 elections. Otherwise, we won't be able to hold these elections if we at least postpone that term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have included in the order of the day a draft Law (registration number 4440). I ask for the statement of the National Deputy of Ukraine Soboljev Sergija Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose, because this is a question that has been dealt with repeatedly, including on a committee of profile, to do it under a reduced voting procedure, if that room supports it. Can you do so without discussion as to how the hall will be defined?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u55	We can do this without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u56	So I'm going to use my minute. What's the point? According to the regulations, proposals and recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, since in our case a number of provisions effectively exclude the possibility of an appeal against decisions when the first instance is the Supreme Administrative Court, the proposal is as follows. If the matter is brought before the Supreme Administrative Court at first instance, there should be a right to appeal against such a decision before the Supreme Court. This is actually the key norm of this bill. There are only two warnings. First. To reduce the standard from 30 days to 10 days is an absolutely sufficient time to make the submission accordingly. And the second. In the part that relates to the rules of material and procedural, delete "or procedural." So, in fact, all the other warnings are taken into account, and I would like to vote, as indicated in the draft decree, on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u57	I will then ask Mrs. Labunski to come to the vote, please. There's Mrs. Labunska from the committee and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u58	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! The committee held its meetings today in the Supreme Council, where eight members of the committee were present, and decided to make some changes: instead of the month of the indictment – 10 days and to complete the mandate of the Supreme Court, part 2 of Article 38, that of the powers of the Supreme Court, exercises other powers under the law. And the committee's decision is in the first and the whole. Please support everyone, this is a very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u59	Thank you. So I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine concerning the competence of the Supreme Court of Ukraine (registration number 4440) with proposals made by the National Labour Chamber from the Professional Committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[11:03:18]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to our day-to-day, distinguished national MPs. Your opinion is on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2233a) marking the 75th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine. I would like to invite Irina Farion, the national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u60	Dear colleagues! This decision in these extremely complex political circumstances is practically the voice of heaven for us, give it to us for such a metaphor. But it was Carpathian Ukraine, this pearl of our land, that first demonstrated the master class of the Ukrainian State in the first quarter of the 20th century. Just when our entire Ukrainian state was occupied by other states: Russia, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Ukraine, and the Carpathian region, they found the power to declare themselves the Carpathian Ukrainian State. Of course, Augustine Volosyn was the pivotal figure of this extremely important state-making process. In my opinion, a profound symbol is that the proclamation of the Carpathian Ukraine coincides with the birth of this man, who is a symbol of encyclopedia knowledge. It was Augustine Volosin who took responsibility in extremely complex political, geopolitical, and stressed circumstances to create the Ukrainian state. I recall that in 1938, in view of the so-called Munich Conspiracy, as a result of the British-France talks, on the one hand, and in Germany, Italy, Hungary fell away from Ukraine, such cities as: The town, Mukachevo and Beregovovo. However, this did not stop the Ukrainians from forming their state, and Hust became the capital of Carpathian Ukraine. This event is still significant to us in the sense that this nation, which has actually existed in theory for only a few days, but has charged the whole country with the spirit itself, has adopted all the necessary solutions for its own creation. It was the Zacarpathian Ukrainians who approved the celebration of "The Not Dead Ukraine," which now embraces the whole country. And all these catastrophic battles that took place yesterday in Donetsk were influenced by the fact that the bright daughters sang the glory of the great Boriss and the Galician of Verbite. It was at Zakarpata that this song became our famous song. Is this not a special and unique sign for us today? And yet another, respected society, Augustine Volosyn, as no one else, was aware that armed formations must exist in order for the state to exist. So Carpathian was created. And this Carpathian net has competed with Hungarian occupation as actively as we've been competing with you for three months in Maidan. And one more thing, to finish. Augustine Volosin, by the power of his beliefs, the force of the adoption of an independent Ukrainian idea was super-safe to our eternal enemy with you, which, for some reason, has been called a "strategic partner" for the past 20 years. Of course I'm talking about Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u61	Please give us the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u62	So Moscow's counterintelligence SMERSH arrested Augustine Volosin as a citizen of the Czechoslovakian Republic and destroyed him. Dear community, I believe we have a sacred duty today to vote in favour of the decree marking the 75-year anniversary of the existence of Zacarpathian Ukraine. Thank you very much, and I am very grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u63	Thank you. Any questions? Come on, let's go. Please, on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u64	Thank you. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, indeed, Augustine Volosin, is an outstanding figure in the history of modern Ukraine. And what happened in my hometown of Zakarpatta for 75 years deserves respect, and we certainly need to demonstrate and support a united desire today. But I would like historical dates not to be objects of speculation. Today we have the opportunity to make a decision to commemorate this remarkable historical event. But I would ask our colleagues, our political opponents, not to make pyars out of such events. This has happened independently of you and independently of us. This story and I hardly think any of us could have contributed to or resisted those events. And the fact that people gathered themselves and expressed their will should be remembered, known, and surely commemorated. I am addressing everyone about the possibility of voting on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u66	Vladimir Yavorowski, Kyiv, Trinity, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to point out something else, but even under such conditions -- very difficult, often tragic -- we still have to celebrate some of the most remarkable things in our history, and our great people. I am in charge of these questions at the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I've prepared this long list. He's already registered. I'd very much like you to look at it so that everyone can make some suggestions that need to be removed, what needs to be added. It's very important, and I think we have to go through this stage. And second, about the date we're discussing today. In this case, of course, it's about the whole very original Ukrainian land, it's about the Carpathians and the 75-year-old events in Zakarpat. And I want to tell my predecessor, who was here in the rostrum, there's no piranha here. We're just saying that Ukraine has to celebrate this really famous date in this very original, very self-sustaining, real Ukrainian country. As a result, I am convinced that even for the perhaps small number of national deputies present here, we should be inclined to vote for it. Not getting votes, believe me, it's a huge insult. Instead of marking the 75th anniversary, we're just going to insult the Carpathian. As a result, I ask Kosulinsky’s goodness to once again urge the national deputies into our hall and to vote in favour of this matter. We're going to do a very good thing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Please refer to the report of the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Martinjuk Leontius Svetoslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, before presenting the decision of the author Valerius Cherniakov, I would like to point out that we have been asked twice to consider this issue, asking to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine, twice addressed us, twice to the Supreme Council, the Zacarpathian District Council, in March of last year and back in 2011. So I think we need to listen to the Carpathian community in which these events took place 75 years ago. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on 19 June this year, last year, I apologize, 2013 discussed the draft decree on the 75th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Valérie Czerniak. People's deputies, members of the committee by majority, supported the draft decree. As a result of the review, the Committee recommends that the draft Order on the Celebration of 75 Years of Carpathian Ukraine be supported in the first reading and in general. Minutes of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, No. 10, dated 19.06. In 2013 I want to ask the MPs to come to this room, because at this time, when we feel particularly strongly. Especially sharp, literally on the knife, when people die today because of the unity of Ukraine, we especially feel the importance of every corner of Ukrainian land. And Carpathian Ukraine is an example of how Ukrainians who live in this territory, with weapons in their hands, chose their freedom. So I'm very much asking the factions to call the deputies into the session hall and the deputies to vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Once again, I'd like to call all the national deputies into the session room. We're going to the vote. Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Decree (Registration No. 2233a) marking the 75th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine. Please accept as a basis and vote in general. Please vote. [[11:14:47]] For 223 [[B in m in s a l in]] Are we going back? I'm betting on the vote on the return to the question (registration number 2233a). Please vote for the return. [[11:15:13]] For 232 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2233a) to mark the 75th anniversary of Carpathian Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:15:40]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National MPs, registration number of Law 3874, authored by the People's Deputies of Voropeyeva. The national deputy urges that he be removed from the discussion in connection with the work. I think we're going to meet the National MP. Your view is on the draft Law (Registration No. 2566) amending the Ukrainian Code of Masters (to regulate the content and order of application of penalties in the field of farming). What are some suggestions for considering this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] No discussion? Or by a reduced procedure? No discussion. A proposal came from the National Deputies: To vote without discussion. I'm betting on an ad hoc motion for no discussion on this issue. Please vote. [[11:17:03]] For 208 The decision is not taken. I'll bet on the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:17:03]] For 199. Decision taken. The author, please ask the Ukrainian National Deputy of Agafone Natalia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to postpone consideration of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u71	The author requests a postponement. I think we're going to a meeting. Thank you. Then we'll postpone this bill. That's the question. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (Registration No. 3138) amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (to simplify the filing and reporting of financial statements for micro-entrepreneurs). How will we view this bill? Please turn on the microphone for the people's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! Our colleague passed a very important bill. For microenterprises to report once a year, that's the whole rule of law. We ask you very much to support it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! What are some suggestions for consideration? Is it a reduced procedure or is it an uncontroversial vote? There was a proposal to vote without discussion. Then I would like to make a determination about voting without discussion. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:19:23]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Please vote in favour of the short-term discussion procedure. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:19:42]] For a hundred and Thank you. You're not being heard. But given what you're saying and what I've heard, if you have a warning about non-personal voting, I would like to stress to the honourable people's deputies the principle of the position of the Supreme Council, of the entire Ukrainian society on personal voting. So I would like to ask the people's representative of Ukraine, Vasjunik Igor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u74	Dear fellow MPs! The bill proposes to amend part of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting, according to which micro-entrepreneurs should report and report once a year. According to valid standards, microentrepreneurs are obliged to report quarterly and annually. However, in January 2013, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to amend the financial reporting procedure, by which microentrepreneurs report once a year. Thus, we need to regulate this rule at the legislative level of filing and reporting for microentrepreneurs. The adoption of these changes will make it possible to simplify the activities of many operators. There is a positive conclusion on this bill both by the Chief Expert Office, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has no comments, and there is no positive conclusion by the Main Committee. So I ask you to uphold this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u75	Thank you. People's deputies from the factions please sign up for the performance. Please turn on the microphone of the National MP, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u77	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u78	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal to really support this bill, which it is right, because we now need radical changes in the business system, especially with regard to small and medium-sized businesses and micro-accounting for reporting, which will make it easier for entrepreneurs. We know what the tax is now, don't we? We know how hard it is to do business in Ukraine right now. Ukraine has 167 places in the world in transparency and ease of business. We have to make a fundamental change to this situation right now. We need to adopt those bills that would simplify the business system in Ukraine. And so we can form a middle class, which is about 60 percent in Europe. This is the foundation of any state, and this is the basis for the formation of the economy, this is the basis for filling the budget of Ukraine. So now we have to do this so that Ukrainian business develops so that investments can come in here, so that it's transparent, so that there's no bribes, so that entrepreneurs can easily run the business and thus create jobs, give people jobs, pay taxes, and, of course, form the budget that the Ukrainian State needs today. That is why such laws are positive. We supported the committee unanimously, and we believe that this bill should be approved in the session room. We urge all MPs to be vigilant and to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u79	Please turn on the microphone to the National Deputy of Bondar, the Group "Northern European Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u80	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm absolutely not against the order of the day, the question that is now being considered. But look what's going on in the hall: 20 more minutes and there's no one in the hall. The only reason is that there is absolutely no senseless order of the day that has been formed today, there are no questions that would become relevant here today. The question about Donetsk, what happened, we should be hearing now from a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, what's going on. The question of what is going to happen in Crimea, how things are going to happen that we have to do. What's the summary of the Constitutional Court meeting that happened yesterday and what's happening there now? Questions. If we are to form the agenda from the current issues, there are at least more important questions today: the issue of combating corruption, a bunch of bills passed by committees, such as the same market for grain and grain products, the cancellation, the abolition of corruption in all inspections, the inheritance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u81	I'd like to ask you to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u82	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u83	And I would very much ask you to stick to the Rules, but you're now speaking on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u84	I made a statement and I said we'd support the bill. But essentially, you think about what's going on, you look at the hall -- it's going to be empty in 15 minutes. You're going to sit here and vote, because nobody cares what's going on here. Think about what happened in Ukraine, what happened in Crimea, what happened in Donetsk! And you're trying to give us some little bills on accounting right now. Please take a break, gather the faction leaders, discuss the situation. Or stop working today's session now, take a break, we need to get together in an hour, two, three, but let's think and work essentially, not what's going on right now, on real issues in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u85	Please turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Rosenko, the Vitalia Klicka faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u87	Please turn on Sergei Capplin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u88	Sergey Kaplin, Poltawa, 144 constituency. I'd like to say that this is a question that we're considering right now, it's important, and it's about millions and millions of Ukrainians who have made their own money. And if the government works badly, they will continue to earn money without the help of the state to feed their families. The impact faction has several taxpayers' organizers, who have kept a simplified tax system. And we're going to do everything we can to protect a small Ukrainian entrepreneur, millions of Ukrainian citizens from tax pressure, because they've already gone crazy. And I'd like this to end, we've given millions of Ukrainian entrepreneurs a chance to breathe. We will support this bill, of course. The other one. I'd like to refer to the leadership of the Supreme Council, the faction leaders, all the deputies, let's now state the order and the order of the day, let's set the order for the presence of deputies in the hall, and, above all, we need to work all day tomorrow in the Supreme Council. And I want this motion put to the vote, the day after tomorrow, to work all day in the Supreme Council. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is to ensure that the Supreme Council has been given the documents that the country has been waiting for for for years. There's a lot of deregulation documents that we've been working on, we've got a real economy and we've got a bill on Crimea. We need to monitor closely from the Supreme Council Hall today the processes that are taking place, and people need to know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine controls the military, political and economic situation in the country, we are with them, and we will fight for integrity, and the sovereignty of our independent one great.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u89	Thank you. They're all here. So let's go to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to return to the session room. We're about to proceed to the vote. Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act (Registration No. 3138) amending the Ukrainian Law on Accounting and Financial Reporting in Ukraine (to simplify the order, composition and financial reporting of microentrepreneurs). Please vote for it as a whole. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:28:41]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Please turn on Rudzkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u90	Dear National Deputies! I now propose to announce half an hour earlier, to call the faction leaders, to hold meetings, to gather the national MPs, and to vote today all the appointments of all the elections, so that we and the President's election can hold local elections, we can save money, calm people down, and we can practically implement those statements about the transfer of power on the spot. It needs, at least, to choose, please, let's take a break and look at the message of a consolidating day that we can vote on today. And the next. I ask you very much today to appoint tomorrow and tomorrow as a working day, because Ukraine is in an extraordinary situation, Parliament is working every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u91	Thank you. I'm asking Vitalia Klitschka to take the flag of our Navy Force and set it in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! I have just made the flag the very flag of which thousands of officers and soldiers took an oath of allegiance to Ukraine in 1992. I am grateful to all those officers and soldiers who today, despite the pressure, despite the threats, remain faithful. I would also like to thank separately the members of the families who support them. And I am confident that this flag is a sign of the moral support of the Supreme Council, of the moral support of all Ukrainians, of those officers who remain faithful to their oath. We are with you, and we are sure, grateful to each of the officers and soldiers who remain loyal to the oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine. Hail Ukraine! [[The voices from the hall. Heroim Slava! (]] [[Applause]] )
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u93	So, honourable national MPs, I think this will be one of the unifying moments of this session hall, which will not dare to vote for the questions that are essential to Ukraine today. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u94	Break!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u95	We're continuing our work. There is still no break under the Rules, Your Honor, Mrs. Kugel, I would like to remind you that right now only 11:30 has not worked with you enough time to take a break. The author of the 3138 bill, what are your suggestions? Turn on the microphone, National Deputy Vasjunika.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u96	I am asked to go back to voting on Bill 3138 because it is an important bill for small businesses and microentrepreneurs and facilitates their activity after a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the drafter of the 3602 bill, National MP Moskalenko, also requests that his bill be withdrawn. I think we're going to meet the National MP. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the draft Law (Registration No. 1181) amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Settlement of Responsibilities for Domestic Violence. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, in fact, me and my female colleagues who prepared this bill would very much like to be supported. But if there are no votes, just take it off the table so that we don't embarrass this session hall first. In general, what is involved in this bill. As you know, we have, unfortunately, nearly a million crimes of domestic violence are recorded each year. And we're offering these fines that exist today, and there, for beating up a wife or children, there's a fine of 100 dollars there, to transfer it to administrative work. A very important initiative, supported by law enforcement agencies. It seems to me that the session room should be united as well. If there are voices, if this printing, if you'll excuse me, ends up in the room, if they don't vote just because it's actually not clear why they're going, then we put this question to the session room for a vote. If not, please remove this question from the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u99	Well, we, with your permission, can make a signal vote and see how much the room supports. If possible, then report to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u100	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Before I say two words after this bill, really, it's necessary today, really, our female MPs have made a very good initiative. But here's what I'd like to say. I support as a member of the Fatherland faction of those who today criticize the order of the day that is composed. We have three power committees, we have a committee on security, corruption, a committee on legislative security, we have a lot of laws that are now needed in this situation for Ukraine to consider. And believe me, they're dialing. They'll get as many votes as they need, because there are bills that protect both the military and reinforce the responsibility for committing the crime, and those positions that allow us today to create both the National Guard and to strengthen our security. So, Mr. Chairman, I want to turn to my colleagues. Colleagues, if you're in power, give me a mandate! Allow us all to vote in faction so that we do not disgrace here today the deputies who have taken responsibility for power. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, and also, as far as this bill is concerned, if it does not, then, Your Honor Mr. Ruslan, remove it, please, because this bill, indeed, excludes it from article 173-2 of the Code of Administrative Offences of Penalty in the form of fines and corrections, leaving public works or administrative arrest. It also provides for the possibility of applying an excuse to a person who avoids appearances to an internal court or court in the case of domestic violence. So if there are votes, please support and vote. If not. You need a warning, because, you know, domestic violence is the subject that concerns society today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u101	Please, Katerina Vaszczuk, Zarubinsky. We're going to go to the signal vote, see how many rooms are ready to vote for this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I think that despite all the events, despite all the battalions in this room, this is the law that should be interesting and binding for everyone. The shame that exists in society — that is, domestic violence — should trouble everyone. And each of us, as a national MP at receptions, feels this, in appeals, in complaints. And today there is an opportunity to take a step toward reducing such shameful events. What's a fine? The penalty is the suffering of the entire family: children suffer, the suffering of the same wife. What's public works? It's a condemnation, it's a disgrace. And if a man still has any dignity, he thinks that the whole community is going to mock him, they're going to see who he really is. I am sure that all women vote, and also men, because they remember the words of the great writer that "the standard of a man's dignity is his attitude towards a woman." Let's support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u103	Thank you. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Domestic violence is not only a problem of violence against women, it is a common problem. I think that with the processes that are currently taking place in society related to musculization and feminization, violence may also be related to men. Therefore, the question should not be considered in a gender sense, but the question that is simply embarrassing to the Ukrainian family, in which violence, unlike some other countries, was not traditional, was not mental, including that of Ukrainian men. So I am forced, not forced, but happy to agree with Catherine Timothy in what way. We often use the form of punishment, such as a fine that weighs not only on someone who has committed an offence but on the whole of the family, because in most cases it is a family budget. Thus, the victim of violence suffers for the second time from spending money on the family budget in order to pay a fine. And that's why focusing attention or pedaling on the question of public work is absolutely right. What's more, I'm going a little beyond this bill right now, and I'd like to suggest in general that there's rarely any use of public work in Ukraine, and that they should be used. Including those convicted in the form of conditional punishment. Why is it that a convicted person does not work for society, for a state? So I think there's a trend in time to pay more attention to public work. In many European countries where this is used. So despite this difficult situation in the room right now, I think it's worth voting for this bill, it's not political, it's not ideological, it's humanistic, it's humanistic, it's humanistic, it's humanistic, it's humanistic, it's a bill that we should vote for all, regardless of political views. I suggest we vote for him for everyone in the room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone, and we'll go to the signal vote to see how much support we have for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u106	In Ukraine 1 in 5 women succumb to violence, and that is a fact. The bill's authors are dignitaries, Ukrainian women's national deputies are proposing to be removed from article 173. 2 Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, fines. The application of fines, as well as fines in the form of repairs, with 20 percent of the government’s income being paid is not effective. Because in the vast majority, they affect, not the offender, but his family as a whole, or the person who suffered from violence. In cases where the wrongdoer often does not work anywhere. We've been looking at this bill on our committee -- the Committee on Law Enforcement, and we've all voted in favour of it. Also, our parliamentary group is asking the Chamber to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u107	Thank you. Andrew Mishchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u108	Andrew Mishchenko All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. "Freedom" joins colleagues and those arguments that have just been made in the hall. According to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, punishing parents for crimes committed against their own children is actually a victim of crime. After all, the fine is paid from the family budget. We need to take into account the fact that they are, to a greater extent, children of socially vulnerable families. Reducing such a family’s budget will result in poor nutrition, worsening child’s socio - economic conditions, and so forth. Therefore, instead of a fine, responsibility in the form of public works and administrative arrest should be applied to offenders. The Freedom faction supports this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, let's have a signal vote, and I suggest we hold to see how much support there is in this bill's session room. I'm asking all national deputies to return to the session room now. Thus, there is a vote, a signal vote on Bill (No. 1181) amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences to address the issue of responsibility for domestic violence. People's deputies, please vote. Signal vote, please. [[11:44:21]] For 185 We see a situation in the hall. The session room does not support this bill. We take it off the table and move on to the next one. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Law (Registration No. 2323) amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent occupational diseases from occurring in workers. What are some suggestions for discussing the matter? Instead of the author, Zibenko, a national deputy, is speaking. May I see the people's deputy, Zibank, to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. On April 3, 2013, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to prevent occupational diseases in workers (registration No. 2323). The bill proposes to eliminate inconsistencies in the regulatory regulation of the provision of milk or equivalent food and salt water for workers employed in work with harmful and difficult working conditions, as well as in the production of air temperature that exceeds the health standards set. The elimination of such disagreements will contribute to the implementation of preventive measures and to the significant slowdown in the emergence and development of occupational disease workers. With these changes, the author removes the current restrictions on the provision of gas - gas salt water to only hot plants and manufacturing areas. And it extends the corresponding standard to all air temperature productions, which goes beyond the provisions of article 167 of the Ukrainian Labour Code and article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the Protection of the Work of the Norm. Ukraine’s State Ministry of Mining and Industrial Safety does not object to the adoption of this law. The trade union party supports the bill and reports that its adoption will significantly improve the protection of the social rights of workers, as well as prevent the emergence and development of occupational diseases. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Are there any questions, distinguished national MPs? No questions asked. Can we put it to a vote or are we still going to make a vote? Shall we make a signal vote? Dear national deputies, to make. question to the author, co-author of the bill: are we putting the vote to a vote or are we putting it to a vote? A signal vote is requested by the author. Therefore, honourable national deputies, I place a bill of the Law (Registration No. 2323) amending some Ukrainian legislation to prevent occupational diseases from occurring in workers. Please vote, please decide. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[11:48:13]] For-163 Against - 0, held - 7. [[B in m in s a l in]] What are the motives? That's the signal vote. Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions – 2, "Paternity" – 48, "Klicka" – 13, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 20, "Economic Development" – 27, "Freedom" – 31, the Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. So we see this law doesn't consolidate the session hall either. We have the remaining, distinguished national deputies, and yet the local elections are off-limits. We've got about 10 minutes to take off. So I'm going to call it a 12.30 break. At 12:30, we'll continue our work. Thank you. Heads of factions, I ask you to come to my office now, to the office of the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'll inform you that the faction and group leaders' meeting have now taken place, they've decided to go to the session room to continue our work now on the issue of "The Various" speeches by the national MPs. Given that the situation is now extremely critical and there is now a meeting of the Constitutional Court on the evaluation of the activities of the Supreme Council of Autonomous Crime for the holding of the referendum, we ask you, honourable people's deputies, because our work is uninterrupted. I'll remind the honourable companion that on February 20th of this year we've approved this decision to carry out continuous work so that we can continue our work tomorrow at 12 o'clock. Then I ask all the national MPs not to travel in their homes, in their constituencies, in view of the extraordinary relevance and the need for all the national deputies in Kiev to continue our work at any time. So once again, today we're moving to the "Variance" agenda item of the National Deputies, and tomorrow we're going to continue our plenary work at 12 o'clock. So, people's deputies, we're all going into the order of the day of the Varying One. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please. Welcome to the statement of National Deputy Benjuk, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u113	Dearly favored! Deputies! Dear Chairman! Dear Ukrainians! Today is a difficult moment for all of us, understanding the situation in which our country is in, how many incredible things that are meant to break the integrity of our nation are now the most important moment. And what you and I have to do with you and the MPs, and all of Ukraine's citizens, find the means to stand in this difficult, incredibly difficult confrontation. But we understand that the peaceful life that is behind any conflict that comes to an end will necessarily be taken into their own hands. And we hope that that will be the case, and all the problems that have to do with the development of our nation will be solved after we have first dealt with these urgent issues that are related to the conflict that we now have in Crimea and our northern neighbor. Only great consolidation, only great wisdom, only incredible great tolerance can give us a great chance to escape the great bloodshed. And we, gentlemen, understand with you that these are the most precious things that we should stand with you. But we understand and long for the soundness of mind, which, thanks to God, dominates our country, to reach the hearts of our northern neighbor, the Russians. We realize that this incredible reaction that exists to all of us, to the Ukrainians on the side of Russia, they don't come from the Russian people, and you and I understand that very well. They come primarily from the Kremlin leadership, from the President of Russia. And we realize that all these things are temporary, because sooner or later the governments of all countries are changing. It is not just the people with their original longings, their associations, their friendships, and so forth. And that's why, gentlemen, I would like to urge all of us to get together for work, to gather for those responsible days ahead of us. We remember that Saturday and Sunday, I call for the common sense of the people of the Crimean Autonomous Republic, to show great courage and to try to be completely civil, in Ukraine to come into this difficult situation, first of all to show the great will of the Ukrainians to pursue our national integrity. And to remember that all these reactionary things that are now, they will be punished sooner or later. Let's stick together, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u114	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Guzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u115	Dear Chairman! Deputies! Unfortunately, with the challenges of today’s day, we have a rapid increase in the number of people who are not working. In existing realities, the unemployment rate in Ukraine is up to 2 percent. For example, there are 12 unemployed people in my hometown of Dniprodijnsk, where the city is a large industrial center, there are 250,000 people in the city and there are 43 medium and large enterprises in the city. And every year, there's a reduction of about 3,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, the most vulnerable among the unemployed are women and young people who are unable to find a job today after the end of their schooling. Thus, the problem is taking on an alarming scale. Now, in addressing the economic crisis in Ukraine, not only should we not forget the problems of unemployment, but we should solve them all together. One compromise approach must be used. So, in my opinion, it will be very timely and soon to hold parliamentary hearings on "Unemployment in Ukraine: Ways and Ways to Overcome It." I want this discussion accepted. Both employers and our unions. Ladies and gentlemen, we must work together to find a way out of unemployment and solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u116	May I have the floor of the people's representative, Cibenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u117	Olga Mikhailenko, Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, voters! On 13 March, 70 years had passed since the liberation of the city of Herson from German-Fashistic invaders. Holy, holy date for every Herson. Unfortunately, however, the new power has done its utmost not to honor the defenders of the Fatherland. The celebrations planned in the Herson Dramatry were cancelled, and the vandals were unable to pass on the memory relay — a capsule with sacred land, surrounded by the blood of the liberators. How so? Veterans are outraged, left in living units that liberated the city. I want to address everyone, there are shrines where generations have been raised and no one has been given the right to deny the creation of a Soviet soldier, the winner who stood for freedom, the independence of our State, the world from the brown plague. We bow our heads low to the memory of the warriors, the young men who, 70 springs ago, forced cold Dnieper and brought relief to the Hersonians. The following exclaiming information: threats by the leaders of the Paternity Party organizations on the ground continue. Feel power, respectable? Make sure they don't get caught up in it. Where's your democracy? If you have not yet done anything for the people, threaten those who do not vote at your command. I turn to the leadership of the State. Alexander Valentinović, why are the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens and people's deputies not respected? You're a guarantor. Why is the European Parliament resolution not being implemented? How much do you expect the authorities to take measures to free the Central Office of the Compatia from bandits? Dear colleagues and the leadership of the Supreme Council, I would like to consider this statement to be a parliamentary appeal to the new authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u118	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Momoth. His word is further passed on to him by the national Glasun.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u119	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, two days later, the winter Paralympic games ended and our athletes spoke very well, celebrated our state in Sochi. And it's very appropriate to mention people with disabilities, because in the last few months in our country, we haven't mentioned that December 3 is traditionally the International Day of Disabled Persons. Today, more than 2 million people with disabilities in Ukraine are more than 5 percent of the country's population. It is fitting to mention the problems that these people face in their daily lives. A modern humanitarian standard has deviated from the concept of productivity when a person’s status is determined by his ability to work. It's very good that we've moved on to modern, more humane standards and come up with a concept of quality of life. Today our task, society and government, is to create conditions that allow people with limited opportunities to live an active way of life to be full members of society. The main problem is that high humanitarian standards in most cases remain on paper. People with limited opportunities face problems of a purely household nature each day. High curbs, cool stairs, lack of pandas, high - station elevators, narrow doors, unfurnished toilets, unapproached public transportation. As a result, people with limited capacity remain outside the reach of full life. Modern building standards provide the necessary facilities for disabled people. But do the builders follow these standards? No, because it needs extra expenses. But this kind of attitude toward people with limited capabilities is an indicator of the civility of the country and of society. Our duty is to create a level playing field for people who need special conditions in their health. In developed countries, disabled people have the opportunity to visit cinemas, restaurants, public transportation, and travel. They have the ability to live a full life, and that's what we should be equal to. Signing the papers won't solve our problems. We must ourselves seek development and make every effort to improve the quality of life in Ukraine. And the last. I want to address all branches of government, all politicians, the Supreme Council not to make sharp movements at this time, sharp statements, have a broad debate in society, hear the East and the South. There are working people living there, not extremists, but they have questions about society, about power, about us with you. This will bring us together in the face of serious external challenges and will ensure the integrity of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u120	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the National Deputy of Osuhovsky. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy of Peace.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u121	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Unfortunately, when you listen to the Communists talk, you realize that these people don't live in Ukraine, because to say that 70 years ago, the brown plague was conquered can only be insane. In 70 years, the Corinne Plague has gained strength and is now entering Crimea. The Corinne Plague places its troops on the borders of Ukraine. The Corinne Plague sends out bandits with bays, sends out its provocateurs, sends out its spies. And the people who serve the brown plague are sitting in this room, not voting and telling us Ukrainians how we should live in this country. So I want to tell you that the Ukrainian people know, know and protect themselves. Because it was in vain that people walked with their bare hands against armed bandits! In vain, the Communists could not be seen at this time. None! And I would also like to remind you, your shareholders, most of them, in the vast majority of parliament's deputies, are members of the Communists and the Party of the Regions. Where is the reaction of the factions? Where Is the Answer to the Crimes of Deputies? Where is the condemnation of the so-called referendum? Where are you? Where are you? Where did you go? Why do you not go to the criminals and urge them not to support the criminal acts of criminals who will be condemned and punished? And I want to warn you that it will not go anywhere from us as Ukrainians or from you as the fifth column. So we are convinced that we will find a way out of this situation. We are convinced that not only us, but the whole world does not recognize the results of the so-called referendum. We know we're going to give a decent bite and a brown plague and a red plague. You'll come up with a word. And we're going to answer no matter what you're sabotaging the decision of our entire Ukrainian community. So the first thing we have to do. We should make it clear to all that those who do not want and will not support Ukraine’s independence will respond. The other one. All those deputies or so - called deputies who have a mandate and who do not want to work for the interests of Ukraine have responsibility. Third. We have to stop this creeping aggression. We have to close the borders. We must respond to any challenge so calmly, so calmly, because power is always calm, and power we have. But we're not acting, we're not going to leave a word unpunished. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u122	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kirilenko. He's giving the word to the National Deputy Leonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u123	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Edward Leonov, Crimea, Sevastopol. Please listen to the statement that the Crimean Organization of the All-U.S. Freedom Association has released today. Since October 2013, thousands of criminals of different nationalities have visited Maidan in the capital of our homeland, Kiev, to protect their dignity from the criminal power of Yanukovich. More than a hundred citizens, including the Crimeans, were killed in the struggle. After the collapse of the criminal regime, Yanukovich showed a deep, moral decline in the rulers of the former authorities. The process of rebuilding a new democratic and human Ukraine has just begun. But at this very time, at this difficult time of establishing a new state, enemies of the Ukrainian people are trying to sow discord between criminals and other citizens of our only state. Calls are being made by traitors of the Ukrainian people who have taken the path of pro-Russian secessionism. That the name Crimea could happen as a separate state. This statement is unendurable because the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is 80 percent subsidized! So the bulk of the money comes from the government budget of Ukraine. Crimea’s main income article is the tourism industry. Of these, 70 percent of Crimea tourists, more than 4 million tourists per year, from continental Ukraine. In the event of any isolation or any change in the status of Crimea, this sector, the tourism sector, at least in the coming years, will just die. It is 85 percent available from continental Ukraine and 90 percent from fresh water. Taking into account what has been said, we draw the attention of the people of Crimea to the fact that power in the region is being seized by the pro-Russian extremists for the involvement of the occupying Russian forces, who have illegally invaded the territory of the sovereign state and are trying to carry out illegal activities by sitting in the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The other one. We urge citizens not to take part in the so - called unforeseeable referendum. And not to be part of this criminal crime. This can lead to disastrous economic and political consequences. We express our support for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ukrainian citizens who, during this difficult time, are on the watch for the territorial integrity and independence of the Ukrainian State on the Crimean Peninsula and throughout Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine! This is a statement by the Crimean organization of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. And I want to report that the repression has begun. For tens, hundreds of our freemen are now breaking into homes called Crimea Defense Forces, these so-called green men, and they are actually criminals and traitors under the cover of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. And we can't stay away! We must protect our citizens! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u124	May I have the floor of the Pharion People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u125	Glory to Ukraine! Dear Ukrainians, we can only imagine the condition of two families in Donetsk who are now mourning those who were tortured by Moscow invaders last night. Among those involved are my brother, Dmitri Cherniavsky, the dictionary of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom. I think each of us understands that we are now living to avenge them. Someone likes it or doesn't like it. Although someone may say that revenge is a short wing, you will not fly far. But Chevchenko also urged us to use that imperative — true vengeance. We'll crush all those who won't let us fulfill the dream of an independent Ukrainian state for 22 years. That's the first one. The other one. For a long time, we couldn't possibly get rid of the Ukrainian Minister of Education, House of Tobacco. This was actually the main agent in Moscow who was acting on the ideological front. Unfortunately, today, even after the events in the field today, our land is being spread with you by road agents. I have no doubt that we will overcome the lilyputin, but the roads will fall under our feet for a long time. So we have to stand our feet to have them pierced under our blows. I believe that we have removed from the post of Minister of the House of Tobacco only as a prelude to our victory in the educational realm. Because if we don't realize that the education queen is primarily an ideological front, it's a completely new philosophy of the education and training system, then post-Tabin syndrome is going to dominate our programs in high school and high school for a long time. I'd like to focus now on the fact that the system of bribery and the system of corruption that works in higher school is the result of the demoralization and deideologicalization of the education system. I am approached by teachers of numerous educational institutions that cover the entire geography of our great country, who cry for protection and help. I would like to emphasize those educational institutions that Tobacco has made impossible to carry out its professional responsibilities. This is mainly about the Eastern European National University of Forest Ukraine, where teachers describe unheard-of corruption schemes and total bribery organized by the Rector of the Higher Cocan, who was also awarded the title "Deserved Actor of Science" recently. This is the Kirovograd National Technical University, which is absolutely failing the economic direction of preparation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u126	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u127	It's the Lugans National Agrarian University, whose rector turned this university into a private enterprise. Finally. Workers and students of the Boyar College of Ecology and Natural Resources of the National University of Bioresources and Environmental Use of Ukraine are called for assistance. And there's a terrible fact that their director, Sergey Kopivka, has given orders at this teaching facility to take out the garbage on the national flag of Ukraine. Dear community, we must become steel to overcome this horde; we simply have no other way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u128	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u129	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, today, at a post-revolutionary time when Ukraine has developed new, completely beautiful, beautiful possibilities in terms of the future of our nation, we have problems that need not be commented on, that need to be made clear what needs to be done today, tomorrow and tomorrow. So about the question and the crisis that occurred in Crimea, I'm sure we should do a few very clear, very clear, what Crimea, Donbas, all of Ukraine is doing. First. We should not give Vladimir Putin and his environment to other Soviet diplomats who know and know how to invade the territory of another country and how to implement the position of conquest, not give any new arguments for future negotiations or blackmailes of our independent Ukraine and its new government. We must now, apart from the headquarters that is to be deployed throughout the country, except for headquarters, which should be central and direct the work of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, the border guards, to create a separate headquarters on the Donbassa. Many discussions began today about the disengagement of Donbas, Kharkiv district, and these discussions were initiated by Kremlin agents who were brought here to destabilize the situation in the region. We need to carry out a series of clear, coordinated actions, but each of those people was immediately arrested, immediately left our country. We also need to take a number of serious preventive steps so that those places, those situations, those government authorities, where these agents can sit and pursue their anti-Ukraine policies, are immediately warned by those agents, from their appearance. It's a big, serious, professional job to be joined by the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Foreign Service, all the power organs. Third. We need to start a new kind of diplomatic campaign, a diplomatic campaign in the world. We must do everything we can to ensure that the nuclear - free status of our nation does not mean that we are defenseless and that we need to talk about it directly. Likewise, we should not let Putin take down the presidential campaign. Similarly, we have to do everything we can to mobilize the entire population of Ukraine and to climb every day in every Ukrainian square, demonstrating the power of the Ukrainian people, the peaceful, but the army of the Ukrainian people, who will look into the eyes of the dictator and show that tens of millions of Ukrainians are ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u130	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u131	and protect its integrity and independence. And last but not least. The country needs reform, and the country needs a promised illustration. The efforts of the national deputies have done much in this direction. I would like the Ukrainian government to have an even more rigid and uncompromising policy towards those who have long held key positions in the state. You can't do reform and revolution in white gloves, you can't do reform at the expense of ordinary people, you have to do it at the expense of Treasurymen, billionaires, and corrupts who robbed, I emphasize, 20 years of Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u132	I would like to take you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Orphan Jury Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u133	Glory to Ukraine! Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Society, everyone knows the classic principle: "You want peace, get ready for war." The Ukrainian nation in Maidan, after entering the revolution, proved that an unarmed nation armed with an idea, a spirit reborn with Cossack consciousness, was capable of conquering the most powerful, seemingly the most terrible regimes. Similarly today, the new dictator Putin, the modern - day Hitler of our 21st century, must understand that the restored Ukrainian Cossack nation of Russia will never prevail in direct opposition. Putin has already lost this opposition by dishonoring himself forever. If the Russian state starts this war, the opposition is open, the whole Russian state loses and it collapses. I would like to say that today we are living in a very difficult moment when we are building a restored Cossack state on the ruins of the post-Soviet occupying state. At the same time, we must do everything we can to prevent the destruction of our territorial integrity, our constitutional system, from protecting our state. Therefore, today all efforts by the Ukrainian Parliament, every parliamentarian, must be directed to the protection of our Fatherland. I've just been in contact with Ukrainian border guards who are on the border and will be the first to fight for our Ukraine, if necessary, to put their lives first. I told them that they should remember that behind their backs was the largest country in Europe and one of the most powerful European nations of 46 million Ukrainians. And not only does this nation hold fists for our bordermen, for our sailors, for our soldiers, but we all go, and we protect our territorial integrity and independence if necessary. And today it is a great shame that in the Ukrainian Parliament, when our soldiers are bravely faced by the invader, they defend the Constitution in the face of death when there is an open fifth column in Parliament that sabotages, which does not support a state decision that actually plays on the Kremlin’s hand. I want to tell every member of the Communist Party and Party of the Regions here that sooner or later everyone will be responsible for the crimes that are being committed against the Ukrainian State today because it is a betrayal of the Ukrainian state and a betrayal of the Ukrainian nation. Our main task today is to support our Ukrainian army. Yesterday we created, reborn the National Guard. We will never again have internal forces to defend the regime and fight our own people. We're going to have a National Guard that's going to fight and protect our territorial integrity. And I want to remind you that in the '90s, when we had the National Guard, the National Guard wouldn't let us take the Crimea. We believe that Putin's plan for Ukraine's annexation is a crazy plan and it will fail. And we're going to build a really rich big European state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u134	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Ilika.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u135	Praise Jesus Christ and Glory to Ukraine! Dear friends! My speech will now be addressed to those who celebrate the victory. The victory for celebrating friends is early, and it's only really starting, and we just had a chance to change the country. And it all depends on how we manage that chance. I will remind those who today have the euphoria of victory, of the main five demands of the people, including those on Maidan today. First of all, it's to punish the guilty. You don't need a paphos, you don't need a voice statement, you need a specific action, where Janukovic, where Pshonka, where Zacharynko, where Kluviv, where Lukas, where other characters, Portnov, who fled the country and none of them were seen or punished. I think the second main requirement that we've heard is that, apart from the punishment of those who gave the criminal orders and carried them out, it's the return of the stolen people. Well, they took Midian, well, they did tours. Where are more than ten state residences? In Desert Vodice, in Concha-Zasp, in the Carpathian region. There still live the hangovers who live on behalf of the Ukrainians. And they're not evicted from there. So, my friends, I think we need to make the necessary decisions right now. Third, we're talking a lot about illustration, we're talking a lot about the law, we're talking about what's needed, what's needed, what's needed, what's needed, what's needed, what's going on? But in order not to lose confidence in people, immediate reforms in the law enforcement system, in the tax system, in the judiciary are needed. Let's see what we actually have today. Today, in all those positions where all the criminals were seated, they are still sitting. They have carried out criminal orders, and they continue to do so. The fourth requirement is transparency of power. Friends, we must be guided by European democratic norms. All doors to power must be open. You know, I recently had to go to one of the ministers, then go to the border guards that are there, to the person who has already been delegated by Maidan to the government office, just as difficult as it was in Yanukovich's time. So tell me, please, what have we changed? Did we change the board on the door or did we just change the face? Are We Changing the System of Power? So, my friends, access should be open to all offices, including parliament. And lastly, this is the social escort of families where people died. We have registered laws that apply both to treatment and to social protection, and to teachings that have a direct bearing on those who have died and suffered in Maidan. This should be adopted first and foremost. And to the end. When all these requirements become action, then we can talk about victory. Then we can say that we've broken the regime. And it actually works like nothing's happened. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u136	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Heratchenko. People's Deputy Roswadowski, please. None. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u137	Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has repeatedly failed to fulfil those responsibilities, and it has failed to fulfil the obligations that lie before it, since given the fact that we must tell people honestly, we have two categories of deputies who today have ruined the full meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One category is former members of the Party of Regions, who have become revolutionaries and coalitionists, but because they have few positions, they feel that they should not go and vote in protest. And the second category is our courageous representatives of the new government, who have decided not to give up the mandate and not to carry out the Constitution. I think that our position should be clear if those people who have become honest for the second week and in principle do not work as national MPs, obviously we need to talk either about forming a new coalition or about the dissolution of parliament and the election of a new parliament. With regard to MPs who are government officials, I think to myself, as a tolerant politician and citizen, the deadline is Monday. If the officials don't serve as deputies on Monday, we are under the Constitution and the old one, and the new one has the right to release these ministers and officials as violators of the Constitution. If we don't have the proper functioning of the Supreme Council in Parliament on Monday we don't discredit ourselves that much, we will discredit the country. What would we have to do today? Tomorrow, in Kharkiv, in Donetsk, in Lugansk, Russian citizens representing neo-Nazi organizations and pro-Russian organizations that communicate with each other are gathering a series of actions, which I would call conditionally, under the name of "putinian distinctions" or "putinian fighting", they demonstrated it in Donetsk and for a full 12-hour tomorrow in Kharkiv, Lugansk, Donetsk, they are preparing such a belt of support for the Russian war and Putin in the east and south of Ukraine. By the way, if you're using the Internet, you don't have to be the minister of internal affairs, or the Attorney General, or the head of the BSS, the addresses of the organizers of these shares are posted on the Internet. We can call them and ask them how they will organize a civil war in Ukraine. So our requirement should be clear: the heads of the district administrations, the political and regional elites of the South and the East, the law enforcement authorities should do everything tomorrow, so that, don't give God, some man is not what he died -- suffered in Ukraine. If we keep this situation going tomorrow, we're gonna keep this situation going and on Sunday, we're gonna keep this situation going. Today, losing Russian expansion and doing what our new government does is a disgrace to all of us here and a disgrace to Ukraine. So I am convinced that tomorrow we will correct the mistake and fix the situation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u138	I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Guzenka. None. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the fact that there were no people in the Supreme Council today to vote, with a new coalition being created, is no doubt a disgrace. It's a shame, no doubt, to the communists who don't vote for, let's say, doubtful enough, the shame of regionals who don't know what they're doing, but above all, the shame of those people who took responsibility for the state of affairs in the state. And that's where you have to admit it yourself. I don't think we need to turn to consciousness right now, to the conscience of those people. We just need to draft a bill, and I've asked the lawyers to do so, and I've asked my fellow national MPs to support this idea, so that the people's MP's entrance to the plenary will be seen for no good reason as failing to fulfil his parliamentary powers as inefficiencies. There are clear criteria in the Constitution for depriving the people of their mandate. I think lawyers can find a basis, and you and I will support that. That if the MP doesn't go to work, he has no right to be with the mandate. Why an ordinary person who is three hours away from work can be fired from work, and MPs do not walk for weeks, they are not here for months in the Supreme Council Hall and nothing. They also get a salary. And if you look at the fact that we are now facing the threat of a full - scale war, it is a double reproach. This can simply be likened to treason. Otherwise, I don't know how to qualify. Dear friends! The situation is that we have to do everything right now to make sure that this pseudo referendum in Crimea doesn't take place. So I ask everyone who has relatives who have friends to call both in Crimea and Russia to explain what this will lead to. You know, yesterday a political scientist on TV in the debate was very much praising Putin's wisdom. I wonder what this wisdom is all about. In that he put the world on the brink of World War III? And this world war can be very interesting: the whole world against Putin. What is the meaning of this wisdom? This wisdom is that his actions are compared to that of Hitler in 1938? I'm asking these patent signatories in Russia to think about what they're supporting and who they're supporting. Thank God that there are culture leaders in Russia who have not yet lost their conscience despite the total ten - year propaganda that is stifling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u140	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u141	In spite of Russian propaganda, which pushed back essentially the Russian people, it distorted the situation. These people just don't have normal information anymore and our job is to do everything we can to make sure that this information aggression doesn't affect Ukrainian brains, because in 20 years of independence, we don't have any information protection. We're in the middle of an informational gradual occupation, and there's no government policy. It's just Ukraine as a doorway: there's someone here who can do anything. And information occupation is no less dangerous than military occupation. We need to understand and take immediate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u142	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the National MP Martinjuk Leontius Svetoslavovich. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Michalchinin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u143	Dear Ukrainians! At this time, when the very existence of Ukraine is at risk, it is necessary to give a firm and uncompromising assessment of what is actually happening in all areas of Ukrainian, state and social construction. At a time when the fate of our nation's territorial integrity is being resolved, we have a Ukrainian vandea called the anti-revolution bastion. If, at the time of the civil war in Spain, General Franco invaded Madrid with four columns and said that he had a fifth column in the middle of Madrid, we have a much more difficult situation. We have a sixth column working in Ukrainian television. The seventh column works in Ukrainian law enforcement agencies and special services that indulge Russian extremists and militants. The eighth column, we have this impression, it works in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament and sabotages its work in this time-consuming nation. The ninth column works in the Ukrainian economy, which paralyses the economy and prevents national mobilization, thus disarming the nation against decisive opposition to the external enemy. We have a tenth column, unfortunately, working among ordinary Ukrainian citizens every day, sowing panic, mistrust, fear, despair, disappointment, strife, anarchy and fraud. And in this situation, more likely than ever, we now have a day-to-day issue of concentration of all efforts. What can be a united factor today? What can stop building ruins today? Yes, there is no Bogdan Hmelnicki in Ukraine today, who started the liberation contests, no Simon Petlura, no Stephen Bandera, no Roman Shuhevich. But today Ukraine may have entered at a time when an average Ukrainian demonstrates a remarkable commitment to his duty, demonstrates patriotism, and demonstrates a unselfish and fearless desire to protect the Motherland, which has ceased to be believed by those who swear her name from high quarters. So today, perhaps the main leader of the Ukrainians in the third and victorious liberation war will be the ordinary Ukrainian entrepreneur, student, soldier, peasant, Ukrainian intellectual, Ukrainian writer. All those who are willing to form and unite Ukrainians under the signs of the color of the sky and the color of the sun. And at a time like this, without exaggeration, history is made. Today the world may well be on the verge of World War III. But the main thing for us is not to let this end cross in the middle of the country. Because one thing is to give back to the aggressor and win the free competition against the external enemy. The other is to prevent the war from being fought on the internal front. Ukraine's civil war is not going to last. External aggression will be unleashed, overcome, and made clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u144	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u145	The concentration of all efforts, the belief in self-power, the calculation of only internal resources, the rejection of mutual conquest, the discipline of our victory tomorrow. We're going to win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u146	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, Brothers and Sisters! Today, when Ukraine faces a deadly threat to our country’s existence, we need to unite with you all in order to protect, defend sovereignty, independence, and the territorial integrity of our home country. Just as we all joined together in Midan, putting the Yanukovich gang together, this gang of thieves, robbers, murderers, and traitors of the state. Likewise today, we all need to unite in order to smother the hydrate of the counter - revolution inside the country that lifts its head. We all have to take decisive action against separatists, foreign intelligence agents who provoke, split Ukrainian society, who kill our Ukrainian people in Donetsk just because they speak Ukrainian. We're not just supposed to expect the police or the security forces to stop, first of all, we have to stop this counter-revolutionary Sabbath ourselves. They use the weakness of central authority to lift their heads. Don't wait for anyone, Ukrainians all over Ukraine, go! Stop these thieves, arrest them, arrest them, and turn them over to law enforcement! And tomorrow in the East, all Ukrainians have to stand up and protect Ukraine's independence. I urge all Ukrainians to go to Crimea with a good word, with an open heart, without weapons, without extremism, with Ukrainian flags! Crime is Ukrainian land! We have Tatars, we have Ukrainians, we have Russians, we have citizens of the country -- 80 percent of the people of Crimea for a single and Sunday Ukraine. Today, we need to support, protect, and unite with them. So march for unity, march for peace on Crimea! And millions of people are going to the Crimea, and let someone try to stop us or take away this course of unity and peace! Next. I urge the authorities to act decisively. Arrest, immediately arrest the separatist leaders in Crimea, in the East, in a catalog, let the bastards chew for a few days, understand how to split the country! We have to decide tomorrow on the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Crimea. This is the source of separatism, the anti-constitutional body will dissolve into a mother! Next. Enter the visa regime with Russia. Close the deaf border. To bring responsibility to those who killed people yesterday in Donetsk and not for a moment stop the work of the Supreme Council in order to protect the country. And the one who avoids responsibility will be brought to the villas. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u148	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy of Cherniakov. He's giving the word to the People's Deputy Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u149	Glory to Ukraine! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Honorable deputies, colleagues, really now Ukraine is at the moment when its new history is being written when we begin to build a new Ukrainian state. And unfortunately, we've now faced a very big challenge about the existence of Ukraine -- it's an aggressor in Moscow. It is the mad Putin who, losing Ukraine, decided to play the Crimean map, realizes that he is in agony and does everything to demonstrate to the world and to his constituents as a strong leader. Although the entire world press and the public have long recognized that Putin lost, lost, and fought in Crimea, primarily informational, and in the other direction economic. We saw Moscow's losses on stock markets in annexation and aggression in Crimea. We see what statements are made by the world community that this economic pressure on the Russian Federation will increase and continue. And that's why Ukraine supports this kind of action, and we know how it can really affect Moscow, especially when it comes to gas relations. Because shutting down the pipe is going to be practically death for the Moscow empire, which is based on it's economy. We realize that immediately all their stock markets will be overrun by securities, and the Russian economy will suffer enormous losses. There are important influences, and Ukraine should also apply them. We understand that the loss of Crimea is unacceptable, that Ukrainians will never accept it, and we are constantly approached by the people of Crimea who call for support, and we express our support to them, and we understand that Crime is Ukrainian territory. Ukraine never recognizes Russia's annexation, we're going to protest and we're going to urge the world's public to exert more pressure on the Russian Federation, namely, economically, and of course military. We understand that Moscow, if it crosses this line, will practically declare war on the entire world. Janukovic, who united the Ukrainian people by his actions, today sees the same thing that Putin has united the entire world against himself and has become a truly new aggressor of the 21st century. He's going to get a lot of pay for this -- it's going to be basically the destruction of the Russian Federation, its collapse. And Ukraine, including a large territory, a great state, will unite all the Ukrainians and we will be able to endure all these trials, now colossal for us during a difficult time. We urge all Ukrainians to unite, we urge Ukrainians to show courage and spirit. We thank you for your strong position, for your loyalty to the Ukrainian forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the border guards, the Marine Corps, and especially our parts in Crimea, which demonstrate their high patriotism, demonstrate their devotion to the Ukrainian state, which never accept the Moscow occupation. I believe that the Ukrainian people are going to stand and we're going to overcome all these crises, we're going to overcome those invaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u150	The Chechetov National Deputy is invited to attend. May I have the floor of the national deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u151	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, at every turn, when power changes in Ukraine, anti-communist hysteria and anti-Communist party events are intensifying against the Soviet period itself. I would like to remind you of the absolutely undeniable facts that for the first time in the history of Ukraine, it was precisely because of the Communists and Soviet authorities that this state was gathered in those borders that it exists to this day, and it is against all the external influences and attacks that Ukraine has just experienced. Next. I would like to remind you that the Soviet authorities, given the social and political situation, have given power to the democratic forces without a drop of blood. I'd like to remind all of you that the Soviet authorities have passed on an economy that 23 years can't reach exactly a bourgeois government that it wouldn't be in this country. I would like to remind all of you that the Soviet authorities have just handed over to the Ukrainian independent state the third in the world the potential of nuclear weapons, which has been completely thoughtlessly scattered. I would also like to say that the Soviet authorities have just handed over those rights and social guarantees that have been destroyed in Ukraine for 20 years and cannot be destroyed. As a result, I would like to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has made its position public, it has clearly understood. We stand for Ukraine's independence, we stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity, because it's the Communist Party that brought this country together. We stand in favour of coming out of this social crisis by peaceful means, without bloodshed, negotiations, including with the involvement of European and world institutions. But this is an extremely powerful way out of this crisis for the first time today to ensure constitutional rights and guarantees within our country. Today, security has been assured, and what is enshrined in our laws and the Constitution will prevail. I understand that you can take over public buildings, I understand that you can take over the offices of political parties, banks, but tell me, what is the reason that the Academy of Agricultural Sciences was captured yesterday, do you think it contributes to the image of Ukraine and the tranquillity of Ukraine? So let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u152	Please, before the words of the people's deputy Rosenka, no. Here's to National Deputy Shevchenka Alexander Oxentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u153	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Deputies! I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the situation in Ukraine today is extremely difficult, to scream and shout -- you know how in the village the neighbors are squawking, and that's where you go. The matter is extremely serious and can’t just be set against one another. So the Communists did much wrong for the Ukrainian people: they starved the masses of people, and 20 million Ukrainians were put into the Great Homeland War. The victims were not only Ukrainians but also the rest of the population, about 46 million died. But in fact, Ukraine made the greatest contribution to the destruction of Fascist Germany. And those United Nations that came after the war, they are now coming to the aid of Ukraine, I must tell you. Today, the United States has taken the most serious stand. The point is that the entire mechanism of international relations that has taken place since World War II is broken, and that means an attack in a world of chaos, which means contempt for international law, to its standards, that means the collapse of civilization as such in the world. There's nothing to joke about. The main reason that this has happened with Ukraine and the Crimea today is that the Putin regime is essentially a matter of the Stalinic regime, it inherited these very foundations of the Stalinic dictator, it runs that policy in the middle of its country, and is trying to extend it to neighbouring countries, and especially to the post-Radians space. The revolutions that have taken place in Ukraine, the so-called orange revolution that has been defeated in fact, and the current dignity revolution are threatening this regime. And the main reason for Russia’s aggression is that it is a threat to the interests of this regime. So of course this regime is not going to stop at what's achieved, obviously, and I'm pretty sure by almost 99 percent that there's going to be an attempt to capture both the southern regions of Ukraine and the eastern and even Kiev regions to change the government here. Although, as we see today, we are already isolated, in fact, by the Party of Regions and the Communists. They're sabotaging the Supreme Council's work today, not allowing it to work properly. And we are also asking questions that are not relevant to us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u154	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u155	to ask questions about the protection of our homeland and to take the necessary steps to do so. And we're looking, in my opinion, at small things, and that's why we can't group together to unite ourselves and unite the people around at least a part of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u156	May I have the floor of the people's representative of Bublik. Let's take it. National MP Borita. No, I'm not. National MP Rudzkowski. None. People's deputy Zelik. None. National deputy of Sweden. None. People's MP Pankevich. None. People's MP Mishchenko. None. National deputy Sabi. He's taking it off. National MP Mikhailenko. None. National Deputy Butkovsky. None. People's deputy Leonov. He's taking it off. You've already spoken. National MP Bondarchuk. None. National deputy Chevchenko. Shevchenko Andrey, Fatherland. He's refusing, isn't he? People's MP Mirny. You've done it before, haven't you? People's Deputy Furman. He's taking it off. National Deputy Miroshnichenko Igor You're filming, aren't you? People's deputy to Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u157	Thank you. The noble colleagues, the noble Ruslan Volodymyrovich! Today, we all need to unite for the sake of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, citizens of all nationalities. But today we all need to calm people down and give hope for the future to all the representatives of the nationalities that live in Ukraine today. You can remember the emotional surge that came to mind. That decision, when we're here in the Supreme Council, we've repealed the language law. But now the Temporary Special Commission is working to draft the Law on Development and Use of Languages in Ukraine. And in order for us to have at least the minimum guarantees for the real use of regional languages or minority languages, we need to make the following amendments to the law. First of all, it must be foreseen that this law will not operate within the territorial community but within the territorial and administrative units of Ukraine. Since the project is proposed and refers to the Kravchuk project, it narrows the application of the relevant regional and minority languages to the level of the territorial communities rather than the territorial and administrative units, as provided for by the real legislation and the international commitment of Ukraine. We should think about living and associating with international organizations in the future. The second point is to keep the percentage that was. Because according to article 22, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, in adopting new laws and amending existing laws, the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms cannot be narrowed. And according to article 8, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, direct action is the norm. So we have no right to narrow down existing rights and freedoms. The next moment, the mechanism that is now very difficult to enable regional languages to really function, has to be replaced and suggested that the corresponding language is given the status of a regional language or minority language automatically if the corresponding territorial and administrative percentage of the respective language bearers is the minority language that is set out in the law and the percentage that is set out in the law by the official results of the nationwide census. This rule will actually contribute to the real functioning of appropriate languages within territorial and administrative units, rather than a simple declaration. The next point that must be preserved is the preservation of an existing system and a network of educational and educational institutions in which the education and education process is carried out in the languages of national minorities and is guaranteed. And another point, where the language is supposed to be studied, if the language is a regional minority language, is to predict what is being studied, then the proposal will contribute to the real learning of the relevant regional languages or minority languages instead of the declarative study capability. Today, dear colleagues, we must do our utmost to bring all Ukrainian citizens together around Ukraine, all of us as self - sufficient elements to defend Ukraine. I'm asking you all to support this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-14-m0.u158	National Deputy Dorokhov. None. People's MP Lazko spoke. The National MP of the Marches. People's Deputy Baiduk. National MP Yavorowski recorded, Kartashov, Stadniychuk, Kirilenko, national deputy of Kyda, national deputy of Illenko. So all the national MPs who signed up for the performance spoke. Dear friends, this is where we conclude our plenary session today. I'll remind you that we're meeting tomorrow at 12 o'clock on Saturday, March 15. Have a nice day. Nice work. I hope that tomorrow we will all gather and adopt Ukraine's decisions. Good-bye.
