ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! We're starting our work. I ask all Ukrainian national deputies to prepare for the registration in the hall with cards received by the National Deputies. I'm asking you to register to turn on the "Race" system. Please register with the distinguished national MPs. [[12:04:53]] A total of 389 national deputies were registered. Can we re-register? Once again, dear colleagues, let's register, because this is the first meeting. Please enable the login system. Please register. [[12:05:25]] 399 deputies registered. That's better. The session is authorized. We can start our work. I ask you to turn on the microphone to the oldest national deputy of Ukraine, Yuhim Leonidovich Zviagilski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u2	The first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 26, 2014, I declare open!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u3	Please sit down, distinguished national MPs. For the good tradition of the Supreme Council, I would like to welcome the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies on behalf of the National Deputies. Let's welcome, dear colleagues, the birthday of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. [[Applause]] And our colleagues: Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachevi's National Deputy of Ukraine, Victoria Mikhailna Vojcicka, Oleg Yuriovich Krishina and Mikola Leonidovich Skorik. [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Welcome, fellows of honor! [[Applause]] Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! According to article 15 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, as Head of the Preparatory Group, I am to conduct our session to form the Temporary Presidium of the First Session. In accordance with article 18 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Temporary Presidium of the First Session consists of six national deputies. It includes the head of the Preparatory Group and one representative from each political party, among whose electoral lists are allocated. Therefore, the decision is made by making a proposal, and the political parties have identified their representatives and submitted these materials, as part of the Temporary Presidium of the session, as reported by the Preparatory Group. The corresponding Decision Project is given and given to you. Is there a need for us to discuss the matter? There's no need for that. There is a proposal to vote on this issue. Then I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 1001) on the Temporary Presidium of the First Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[12:11:10]] For 370. Dear colleagues, 370 constituencies, the decision is made. I ask members of the Temporary Presidium to take their seats according to the materials provided by the parties. Parboj Andri Volodymyrovich is from the political party "The People's Front". [[Applause]] Lavrik Oleg Vasilovich is from the political party "The Self-Help Union". [[Applause]] Alexander Yuriovich Wilkul is from the political party "The Opposition Block". [[Applause]] Yuri-Bogdan Romanovich Suhjevic is from the Radical Party. [[Applause]] And Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich is from the political party "The Fatherland". Please. [[Applause]] We don't have another member of the presidency. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our meeting. Temporary Presidium formed. According to part two of article 18 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the preparatory parliamentary group shall hold a plenary session following the formation of the temporary Presidium. The order of the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council, as you know, is defined by the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, namely, article 16. The preparatory group shall propose a change in the sequence of consideration, in accordance with the legislation, to the issues set out in the Rules. A corresponding draft decision prepared by the National Deputies, members of the Preparatory Group, is given to you. Is there a need to discuss the matter? None. I then take this opportunity to vote on the draft Decree 1002: on the order of the day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion of the organizational consideration of the first session of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly, for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, please proceed with the vote, please. [[12:14:42]] For 343 343 people's deputies, pros, versus 0.1, held up. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we've established a daily routine with you and we're starting our work on the agenda. The first issue of the agenda is the announcement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be appointed to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u4	Dear Lord Chairman! The great newly elected pro-European Supreme Council, which has a constitutional majority and political will to reform, perfect and move! I have the honour to announce the suspension of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Mission accomplished. Please appoint a new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u5	Thank you, Your Honor Arsenia Petrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to inform you that pursuant to article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, which was appointed to the newly elected Supreme Council, continues to exercise its authority before the work of the newly formed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear fellow MPs, I ask you to concentrate on continuing our work. I'd like to ask the secretary, I need information on the faction creation. Next in the daytime, we have questions about the formation and registration of MP factions, MP groups. During the break, when we registered, the national deputies formed MP factions and groups. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council worked on the material provided by political parties and national deputies regarding the formation of parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their compliance with the Rules, and provided the Supreme Council with information on the registration of parliamentary factions and groups. The relevant information materials are given to you, and they're given out, as far as I can tell, right? As required by article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, allow me to inform you about the registration of MP factions and groups in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. I'm going to read this list right now. I asked the camera, do we have any information? Now, one minute, dear colleagues, I'm going to read the list of political factions and groups. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you of that. A report on the formation of the parliamentary faction of the People's Front political party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation according to legislation. Also added is the removal from the protocol of the national parliaments of Ukraine, the personal composition of the deputy faction, and the political party. There's protocol. I'm announcing the creation of the 83 people's deputies of the People's Front. Congratulations, dear fellows. [[Applause]] Also, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the formation of the MP faction of the self-help political party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. In accordance with the legislation, the materials are presented. And according to the addition and protocol of the faction meeting to the faction of the political party "The Self-Help Union" entered 32 Ukrainian national deputies. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to read another report on the formation of the political party's deputy faction "The Opposition Block" in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly. According to these documents, 40 Ukrainian national deputies were part of this political faction. [[Applause]] Next, dear colleagues. The formation of the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. According to these documents, there are 22 national deputies. [[Applause]] Next, dear colleagues. I want to inform you immediately that Oleg Valeriovich Láška is the head of the faction. [[Applause]] Next. I'll call everybody later, I'll be back. Then I'd like to inform you about the All-Ukrainian. The creation of a faction of the deputy faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian union of the Fatherland in the Supreme Council of the eighth vocation of 18 national deputies of Ukraine. We've decided to go head to head. It is not clear, however, that the head of the congregations is here. To elect as head of the political party's deputy faction Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna. [[Applause]] 19, I'm sorry. It's just in one of your files. There are 19 national deputies on the list, and there are 18 in the protocol. Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to read that Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov is the head of the People's Front faction. [[Applause]] The self-help faction was elected as the head of the Berezuk Oleg Romanovich faction. [[Applause]] And also, the Opposition Block, elected the head of the Boyk Yuri Anatolyovich faction. [[Applause]] I've read everything else. We need one more message, and I'll keep you posted while we're waiting for the political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u6	No, we haven't chosen them yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u7	So the People's Front didn't choose any substitutes. As far as I'm concerned. Self-help – Lavrik Oleg Vasilovich and Sobolev Egor Viktorovich were elected deputy heads of the faction. [[Applause]] As far as the Opposition Block is concerned, Alexander Yuriovich Vilkula, Voropejev Yuri Mikolaiovich and Ljovčina Sergija Volodymyrovich were elected. [[Applause]] The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Chosen by the deputy heads of the faction: Lozov Andrija Sergiyovich and Voškovski Valerija Mikolaiovich [[Applause]] And the Fatherland faction has not yet chosen the leader of the faction. I'd like that, too. I'm sorry, deputy director of the faction. We're moving on, Your Honor, we're about to announce, there's going to be papers, I'm just going to announce them at the Supreme Council meeting. Is there no objection? Can we move on? Thank you, Your Honor. In order of yield, I will announce the creation of political factions. Next. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda, honourable colleagues, is the report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the previous call by Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. For a report on the state of legislative work in the parliament of the previous vocation, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is given the seventh vocation of Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. [[Applause]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u8	Dear National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council! In accordance with article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, each of you has been provided with information and analysis on the main thrusts of Parliament's legislative work on the seventh convocation. For my part, I want to sum up the work of that parliament that entered the historical past today. The Supreme Council of the Seventh Council became the third Parliament in Ukrainian history to conclude its work prematurely because of the unanimity of society's decision on the term elections. The seventh convocation was made up of diametric contradictions: on the one hand, in 2012-2013, it was an integral part of the Yanukovic regime, its support and support; on the other hand, it was able to crystallize the powerful European opposition that Midan authorized to restore the country to development and transformation, the path of the rule of law, the path to democratic Europe. In fact, it was two different parliaments: the Supreme Council to Maidan and after Maidan. The disgraceful support of the dictatorial laws of Januković has become the climax of the decisions of the first stage of Parliament’s work. The Domajdan Parliament, along with Yanukovic and his entire company, pushed the country into the abyss. With each passing day, Ukraine became more and more like an authoritarian country with total lawlessness, contempt for human life, and injustice. The resources are stolen, the clan’s budget is spent, the loans are offshore, and the strategic enterprises are illegally owned or bankrupted. Desiring unlimited authority, Yanukovic went far beyond the drafting of the Constitution, which, in breach of an oath, was zealously restored to him by the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There was an attack on democratic principles of government in the state. The presidential parliamentary majority, after forgetting their constitutional duties, handed over parliamentary powers to the President at one hand, thus contributing to his usurpation of power. Even the country’s draft budget was to be formed only on the basis of the annual letters of Januković. In doing so, the role of the Supreme Council as the country’s legislative body, the authority of the parliamentary committees as an important link of the legislative process, has been reduced to zero. A new phase in the history of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the seventh vocation began with the victory of the Dignity Revolution, late in February of this year. The threat of Russia’s subversive aggression against our nation has overshadowed the peaceful life of Ukraine and the Ukrainians and has thus changed the very essence and political face of the Supreme Council. After the escape of Yanukovic and the destruction of the old pyramid of power, Parliament remained the only legitimate central authority in Ukraine. The Supreme Council, in an overly complex political and socio-economic situation, has succeeded in taking full responsibility for the state of affairs, forming a new parliamentary majority, a new government and adopting the necessary legislative acts, ensuring the country's vitality, a national resistance to the insidious military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Parliament itself guaranteed a stable transition of power in the country and the holding of democratic elections by the President of Ukraine, recognized by the civilized world. In a situation of virtually unconcealed war solved by the regular armies of the Russian Federation, Parliament has decided on the continuity of its work to ensure the ability of the immediate legislative response to developments and the general situation in the country. In Ukraine, a fighting army was restored, a National Guard was created, volunteer battalions of military special forces that stopped the enemy liberated part of our land occupied by the Russian-terrorist forces. Our great thanks go to Ukraine’s defenders and, above all, to the volunteers who, without waiting for the appeal, became in. For our country. [[Applause]] The eternal memory of the heroes who gave their lives for freedom, the territorial integrity and unity of our nation! [[A Minute of Silence]] Please, colleagues, sit down. It can be argued that working in the epicenter of the broccoli political processes, the Post - Majdanov Parliament was able to demonstrate a stable and effective work. Compared with previous sessions, the Supreme Council worked more effectively on order. So despite a short period of time, the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call will enter history as a parliament of times of great challenges and transformations into Ukrainian statehood. Among the most important decisions of the reformed parliament: the restoration of the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, which were unlawfully repealed under the pressure of Yanukovic. Parliament's decision to restore the Constitution was taken at the request of the Ukrainian people by a constitutional majority of 306 votes, which ensured a return to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. Along with the restoration of the Constitution of Ukraine, dictatorial laws were repealed, which were falsified at the request of the Yanukovic regime. In an extremely cramped history, the Ukrainian people were rid of the power-discussing and, thanks to the Dignity Revolution, elected the right to free democratic development and guaranteed acceleration on the path of European integration. In total, in two years of her office, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reviewed 1915 draft laws, of which 371 were passed as laws in general. Among the large number of laws and other legislative acts adopted during the last two sessions, a special sign would be wanted. In particular, it is a package of bills adopted in connection with the need to protect the state from Russian invasion. First of all, Parliament quickly amended the state budget for the current year by significantly increasing state funding, adopting a package of laws that ensured the work of the law enforcement authorities and the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In particular, the National Guard of Ukraine Act has been passed, as well as a number of laws that have addressed the social protection of anti-terrorists and their families. Equally important legislation by the Supreme Council should be included in the legislation on the implementation of the EU visa liberalisation plan for Ukraine, on the reform of State anti-corruption policies, on the reform of higher education, and so on. Individually, the laws adopted by the Parliament of Ukraine governing State social policy, such as the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, the status of war veterans, and so forth. A package of anticrisis laws had also been adopted, allowing the government to prevent a default in Ukraine. The Act on State Procurement, as well as the laws that ensure the transition of Ukraine to European standards, was passed. During the fourth session, the Supreme Council of Ukraine also adopted a series of laws governing relations in the field of economic activity. In particular, these are laws that promote the activity of the operators, reduce the number of permits and improve the procedure for issuing them, and limit interference in the activities of the owners. For 10 years, the Ukrainian public demanded the adoption of the Resonant Law on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting, which was finally approved in April of this year, which opens up new possibilities for democratisation of Ukrainian society. The seventh Parliament also passed laws on the amnesty of political prisoners and on the restoration of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people, providing for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in the context of the restoration of the Constitution. Special mention should be made of the approved package of laws that ensure the fight against corruption, as well as the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary, the "Purchase of Power", which defines the process of illustrating officials, employees of power structures that have contributed to the usurpation of power, the undermining of the foundations of national security and the defence of Ukraine, or the violation of human rights and freedoms. Finally, Parliament adopted the European Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the adoption of which was Ukraine's obligation to the Council of Europe since 1995. The ratification of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on 16 September 2014 became strategic and decisive for the country. This is a real breakthrough in our lives and at the same time a tremendous responsibility for the new government and parliament, which are obliged to fill the real meaning of the process of European integration of Ukraine. Our nation must become equal among the free democratic countries of Europe in order to develop together in a common European home. Dear National Deputies! The elections to the Supreme Council held on October 26, 2014 gave the map-blanche for reform, modernization and democratic development of Ukraine to the patriotic pro-European political forces. I am sure that the lesson of these elections will determine the direction and content of the work of the newly elected parliament. At the same time, unfortunately, parliamentary elections in comparison with the last presidential elections did not take a step further. Again, attempts were made to falsify the results of the elections and bribe the electorate. On the eve of elections, Parliament amended Ukraine’s Criminal Code to increase its responsibility for violating the electoral rights of citizens. Therefore, it is vital that those who have tried to illegally influence the will of our citizens be punished. A priority and urgent issue for the new Supreme Council is the adoption of new electoral legislation, deprived of the rudiments of the old Clan-Criminal system. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Call is to become an important watershed between the post - Soviet past and the European future. It must be worthy of our citizens who have paid their lives for the freedom, democracy and territorial integrity of our country. The new Parliament must ensure the necessary socio-economic changes in the country, the creation of its powerful military potential, to provide conditions for the liberation of the occupied territories. In the shortest term, a new professional government must be formed, capable of working under extremely difficult conditions in a war - torn country. In the work of the newly elected parliament, such phenomena as voting for other national MPs or unrestrained populism in words and actions are to disappear forever. In the past, there must be an optional visit to the session hall, which at times resembled a semiempty cinema. From 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., there's got to be an angel in the session room every plenary day. [[Applause]] The people chose each of us to work hard in the name of the great Ukraine. This should be proved daily by our work in the Council. In general, the revolutionary relevance to the rule of law must also remain in the past. It is clear that the practice of adopting individual bills on the basis and in general, although justified by the acute danger of the country’s challenges and the need for a rapid response to the situation, it is not in principle able to ensure the proper quality of the laws. Therefore, the newly elected Parliament should fully engage in regulatory legislative procedures that are called upon to ensure the proper adoption of the quality laws required by society. This is a prerequisite for moving Ukraine to a truly legal state. The first decisions of the newly elected parliament will depend on the quality of the legislative process. First of all, it's a balanced and balanced approach to organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, defining the number of committees and their spheres of activity, shaping the agenda, and so forth. Today, Parliament faces an extremely responsible mission, filled not only with hope but also with an extraordinary responsibility for the country. We can record in the history of Ukrainian legislation a qualitatively new page filled with content, becoming a responsible parliament that will ensure the protection of the country and the people, transforming Ukraine into a strong European state. Let us be worthy of the will and trust of the Ukrainian people. May God protect Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! I would like to inform you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, this statement is not voted on, and is taken to the attention of the public. And I would like once again, on behalf of all the fellow Ukrainian national deputies, to thank Alexander Valentinovich for the difficult work that was done during an extremely difficult period. Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! In order to provide organizational questions related to voting, we need to select the Counting Commission now. The Supreme Council Decision Project is given to you on this subject. If there is no objection, I will put this draft decision to the vote and we will vote. No objection, dear colleagues? I ask you to put to the vote the draft Decree (register 1005) "On the election of the Counting Commission" for acceptance as the main one and as a whole. Please prepare and vote, distinguished national MPs. Please. Please vote. [[12:41:21]] For 393 393 people's deputies. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to announce materials on the formation of MP groups and factions. I'd like to announce that there's a number of members of the Economic Development Group. The group is composed of 19 national deputies. Head of the group. The group was elected Homutinnik Vitali Yuriovich, the deputy head of the group, Güllier Eugeni Borisovich. [[Applause]] Also, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you about the creation of a group of members of the "Will of the People" of 19 national deputies and the head of this group is Igor Mironovich Jeremeyev, and the deputy is Andrija Leonidovich Derkac. [[Congrats]] And I would like to announce, my fellow Members, the creation of the faction, the largest faction of the Ukrainian Parliament of the eighth invocation, the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko, the 146 national deputies of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I would also like to inform you, Your Honor, that Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich is the head of the Party's MP. [[Applause]] Igor Vitaliovich Connonnka is the first deputy of the faction’s head. [[Applause]] The deputy heads of the faction are Grinev Igor Aleksiyyovich, Kowalczuka Vitalija Anatoliyovich, Kutovo Taras Viktorovich, Pavelko Andrija Vasilovich, Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovich and Mustafa Najem. [[Congrats]] [[Applause]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Dear colleagues, on the order of the day that we confirmed with you, we have a question about the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. In view of this, before declaring a technical recess, I would like to request the selected Counting Commission to meet for its first meeting, organizationally, and then be ready to inform the national deputies of Ukraine of the decisions made. And I also want to announce now a 30-minute technical recess on which a coalition of MP factions on the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be formed. During the break, please remain with all members of the future coalition in the first coalition congregations. Please remain in the room of the members of the future coalition. Thank you, Your Honor. Technical break is 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u10	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! As the break is over, I ask all Ukrainian national deputies to take their seats in the session room, please. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take your seats, we can continue our consideration of the agenda. Yuri Vitaliovich! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the session room. Please leave your mobile phones, we need you to continue your consideration of the order of the day after the break and create a coalition. I'm asking you to do this, please sit down. Please call the national deputies to the session hall. Is the system ready to work? Ready. You can see that the technical services have made the vote even more frackable. We can fully start our work. Once again, I'd like you to take your seats, please. We're starting our work. And I would like to invite to the Hall of the Supreme Council, the distinguished National Deputies, President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Let's welcome the President. [[Applause]] We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Dear colleagues, I was handed a report by the Counting Commission on its first meeting. The whole assembly heard about the election of the head, the deputy heads, and the Secretary of the Counting Commission. I'll probably read it, right? I'll read it. The decision was taken: to elect the head of the Counting Commission of the People's Deputies of Chernenko, the deputy head of the Counting Commission, Mr. Zastavan, the National Deputy, and the Secretary of the People's Commission, the People's Deputy of Sidorovic. We can move on to. Since the Counting Commission has been elected, the first protocol I have announced, the commission, we are moving on to the next consideration of agenda issues -- the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. My fellow Members, I would like to inform you that in accordance with article 74 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I request the MPs of Ukraine to apply for the post of Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once the candidates have been submitted, we will begin the procedure for consideration of the candidates. Please, what will be the offer? Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u11	In accordance with article 74, part two, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an agreement with the coalition’s factions on the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A few words. Vladimir Borisovich Groysman was elected the city’s head of the town of Winnice, and for the second time, nearly 80 percent of the inhabitants of this beautiful district center supported his candidacy. Vladimir Borisovich Groysman proved, there in this responsible position, closest to the people and their concerns, that he can work professionally for the benefit of the people. Already after Majdan Vladimir Borisovich Groisman was appointed Vice-Prime Minister for Administrative Reform and Local Self-Government. He proved there his professional skills in the field of regulatory policy, in the field of regional politics, and proved that he was active and, at the same time, a disciplined member of the Maidan team. We propose to elect Vladimir Borissovich Groysman as Head of the Supreme Council, realizing that this will be the head of the entire Supreme Council. At the same time, we realize that Vladimir Borisovich Groissman was and will remain a man of Europe, a Ukrainian man, a man who came from Midan to change the country for what people chose 302 deputies of this Supreme Council. Dear friends of the coalition, please confirm our election by voting in favour of the Supreme Council of Groysman. Dear representatives of the opposition, I ask you to confirm your desire to work productively for the benefit of the entire Ukrainian people, supporting the candidature of Groisman. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u12	Heroic glory! Thank you, Your Honor Yuri Vitaliovich. [[Applause]] Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, the head of the faction, Oleg Layashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u13	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor! Today is really a historic moment. Today, the Ukrainian people have been given a parliament that may depend on us, which may be fulfilling the long-standing aspirations and desires of the Ukrainian people to be in Europe, to live with dignity, to live in a way that envied everyone else that we are Ukrainian. And so that everyone from Alaska to Madagascar would want to get Ukrainian citizenship, not run away from Ukrainian citizens in search of a better fate in order to earn a piece of bread to feed their child. Today we are demonstrating what this Supreme Previous Council has not done in 23 years. We're demonstrating unity, we're demonstrating the consistency of position, and we're demonstrating, without exaggeration, the cosmic velocity in decision-making. Remember, which of the deputies of the previous calls, never on the first day the Supreme Council elected either the government or the Prime Minister or the Chief of the Supreme Council, and everything went into coalitions, into speceria and everything else. So the people didn't give us that time limit. We have no right to engage in gravity. We have no right not to make the decisions that the country needs. Today there is a war going on in Ukraine. Today, in Ukraine, there is actually an economic collapse. Today, millions of people do not know how to live. Millions of people do not know how to feed their families. That is why they chose us here to answer these questions. In order to make life a little easier for our people. If we don't do these tasks, if we don't do what the President, the Supreme Council, the future government, the people are going to do, they're going to get us all out of here, and I'm not sure we're just going to be on the pitchforks. And each of you, each and every one of us, first of all, I'm addressing the members of the Radical Party of Laska, I'm addressing my fellow MPs, we've reached the goal, we've come to this room. But the goal is not to sit in Parliament, but the goal is to make the country a European country, so that the country is worthy. That's why the Radical Party joined the coalition. We are not afraid to take responsibility. People won't take it when you sit on the sidelines and just criticize it. The times have passed. Millions of Ukrainians voted for the Radical Party, for other parties with one goal: to change the country with you. That's why our party will support Vladimir Groysman's candidacy as Head of the Supreme Council. That is why our party will vote in favour of Arsenius Yatsenuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we are ready, our party and our faction, to frame the Prime Minister's shoulders, the government for change, for the sake of the country, for the sake of unity, for the purpose of ending the war, for the liberation of our territories from the Russian invaders and for the establishment of order in the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u14	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, what are the suggestions? Please, the Self-Help faction. Oleg Romanovich, please, Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u15	Thank you. Oleg Berezuk, Self Help Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President! People on the street, in cities and villages don't trust the authorities. They just don't trust her because she doesn't do anything for them. You and I have come here not only to save Ukraine, but not just to talk about it, we have come here to restore parliamentaryism, professional parliamentaryism in Ukraine. We've had Parliament for the last 10 years, but we didn't have Parliamentarianism. What is parliamentaryism? It's a quality law, it's a quality representation of its electorate, and it's control over budget use. How many of you here, those who have been here, have been fully engaged in these three areas for the past 10 years?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help Unit is supporting, together with coalition partners, Mr. Vladimir Groysman's head of the Supreme Council, and hopes that his professional skills will lead to us building a society with him and with the Cabinet of Ministers where people will have confidence in power. Therefore, we thank you and look forward to working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u16	Thank you. Thank you, too. Please, Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Then there's Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, today is really a very exciting moment for me to feel that we entered the hall, as we were in the distant 1990s -- a year when courage, strength and strength were enough for the MPs to declare the country's independence. I think we are now faced with a choice that is equally important: to declare independence, but continue to pursue the necessary reforms when, in fact, European Ukraine will be an example and an example for the whole world. I think, more than ever, we have this possibility, the constitutional composition of the parliamentary majority -- it's the responsibility of the Ukrainian people. And I'm sure the most important decisions that we have to make, we have to start with ourselves. What the previous Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Turkinov, has said must be forgotten about the practice of voting for others. That is why personal voting is the most important point that should be seen in Parliament's work on the European model. We must put an end to the terrible practice of the so-called non-block status, which has destroyed the defence of a country that does not allow the country to see into the perspective of the European Union and NATO. And I am convinced that this is a task that will be entrusted to our Parliament. The third challenge, which is equally important, is actually the reform package that needs to change the country that has to make European standards for our Ukraine. As a result of this, our political power, the "Paternity" Election Union, clearly adheres to the principles that are now enshrined in the majority coalition. We support Vladimir Groysman's candidacy as Head of the Supreme Council, and we believe that Tuesday should be the last day when Parliament's political leadership, parliamentary committees and the Ukrainian European government will be formed. That is why we will support this candidacy and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u19	Yuri Boyko, political party of the Opposition Block. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, the distinguished national deputies! The opposition party has received considerable support from our people and is now in opposition. We have our nomination for the position of Speaker of the Supreme Council, this is Alexander Wilkul. We have declared it politically, but we understand that we will not have enough votes to conduct this vote in such a way that Alexander Wilkull will be given this position. Therefore, our principle is that Parliament should begin to work as quickly as possible so that those important laws that we have worked as a political party, which enables a large number of people who are now in a difficult state, can be adopted as soon as possible. From tomorrow we will pass eight laws that have a solid social focus and support for people in different situations, and basically need the support of the legislative body. I want to address the President of Ukraine. Mr. President, we believe that one of the main issues that will need to be considered in the near future, unfortunately, we have not yet received the support of our colleagues in Parliament, but I am addressing you as the guarantor of the Constitution in order to consider the establishment of a separate committee for the support of the people of the Donetsk and Luhansk region, as well as the Crimea. We think it's going to be a really real step that will allow people who are in an uncontrollable territory to feel that our country cares about them, that we will help them and not leave them in distress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u20	Thank you. Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. We have one. I now invite you to Mr. Andria Parbia's word, but we have one technical question. We have a 14-hour standoff under the 14-hour regulation, but from what we have set up the agenda, I want to put forward a motion for a non-interruptive work and continue our plenary session until the day-to-day consideration of the agenda that we have set out for today. Is there no objection? I would like to take a vote and suggest that we continue our work. Vote please, distinguished national deputies. [[13:52:40]] For 370. Decision taken. Thank you. Reverend Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u21	Dear Society, the People's Front has received the most support in the election. And so we too have a huge responsibility as well as a responsibility to this hall. Obviously, this responsibility is the highest of all times in our calling. We are elected to the highest legislative body of the state at a time when there is a war in Ukraine, when the invader in our territory, when part of our lands is captured by the Russian occupation. And that puts a huge responsibility on all of us. And it's to carry out the reforms and to carry out the tasks and commitments that we made in Maidan: both the illustration and the fight against corruption. But it will be very important to reform the Ukrainian army, and to increase the resilience of the Ukrainian army. It will be a very important task for all of us together, not to share, because there are all the active factions in this room, both the present and the distinguished President of Ukraine, here in this room. And the challenge for all of us is that as soon as we can free millions of our fellow citizens who are now actually hostages of the Russian occupation in the Donetsk region of Lugansk. We should keep in mind the Crimea, which is under occupation today, and which we must release from the Russian occupation. Together, we must make every effort to make Ukraine a powerful European, a rich nation. That's why the People's Front has entered the coalition. So the People's Front is taking responsibility, along with other coalition members, for reforming the Ukrainian State, for reforming the Ukrainian Army, for carrying out the tasks that we have put before us in Maidan. And that's why Ukraine's People's Front also supports Vladimir Groysman, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u22	Thank you, Reverend Andrew Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, are there any suggestions in the hall? None. I, with your permission, will hand over the lead to Andrei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u23	Dear National Deputies! During the discussion of this issue, there was only one proposal for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. And I invite you to the rostrum to speak to the Chief of Staff for the speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u24	Mr. President! Distinguished fellow national MPs, members of the Presidium! This is an extremely responsible moment for me personally, because I understand that each of you trusts the Head of the Supreme Council in the hope that we will be able to unite and work to eventually change our country. I understand that every day a person who embraces this position needs to look you in the eye, and the main thing is not to turn them away. We've all passed the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For the first time, someone has gone through more than one election, but we've always met people, and we know and understand how many questions they have for power today. There's a question. And so far, not all of these questions have answers. And our task, by the outcome of the election of the Ukrainian people's will, when we've been given the great privilege of being present in this room on extremely crucial days, months of our country's development, we have to give an answer. The answer is not from the rostrum, but from each one of us by our actions and vote. Since we've talked a lot about what we need to do in reform, we need to make changes, we need to overcome corruption, we need to restore justice, we need to decentralize power, we need to ensure economic stability, we need to do a lot of things that have been going on for decades. But you and I are obliged to do this together. No one's gonna get that chance again. And what we managed to create, by the will of the Ukrainian people, a Ukrainian pro-European constitutional majority in the Ukrainian Parliament, that tells us that we are capable of responding to these challenges. We have to get Crimea back. We have to restore Donbas. We have to do everything we can to make Ukraine finally, which means that the people of Ukraine are happy and rich. And I am convinced that everyone present in this room, everyone who sees us on television today, believes no less that it is possible to do so. But we can only do this together, only by being united, realizing that we do not have time with you, we need to act qualitatively, professionally, and immediately. We have to turn the Ukrainian Parliament, not into a brake, but an engine of reform. We must ensure the unity of the Ukrainian authorities, support the President at such a difficult time, form a professional government and support the Prime Minister, make responsible decisions and allocate responsibility. We have to not look at our own destiny, we have to look at the fate of our own Ukraine. We have to do everything we can to change the system, to make our work public, to restore confidence in the Ukrainian Parliament, which means for everyone in this room. And in this I see the great task of the Head of the Ukrainian Supreme Council. [[Applause]] I'm a man and a chair, we all know it, it doesn't matter, it changes. I went through a period of time always looking at people in the eye, those who chose me as a city head, those who chose me to work in government. Today, I look you in the eyes of millions of people, I want to say quite firmly: with you, if I have your confidence, I will do everything I can to make Ukraine a successful European prosperous country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u25	Dear National Deputies! I'm willing to answer your questions if they are. I realize there'll be a lot of questions in the process, but we'll always find the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u26	Deputies! There's a proposal to go around talking and asking questions, it might take too much time in our discussion, and people are waiting for quick decisions, it's an immediate proposal to go to the vote. Is there support in the hall? We're backing it up. Thank you. Then I ask you to include the "Council" system and in accordance with article 28 of the Rules, I ask the deputies to vote in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Groysman Volodymyr. Who's in favour, please vote. [[14:02:13]] For 359 [[Applause]] We welcome Vladimir Borisovich to the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome, Volodymyr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u27	Serving the people of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u28	The apparatus, if possible, please include the voting factions. Thank you. The most votes were cast by Peter Dustenka's Block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u29	Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you again for your trust and I want to invite you to my word. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. We've got a day's work. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! I think we have a lot of issues that we're going to need to take into account during our work and the Supreme Council Rules. I thank all the members of the Bureau for helping me as the head of the Preparatory Working Group to perform an extremely important function of preparing for the first meeting of the Supreme Council. I'd like the people's deputies to focus on our work, take their seats. Dear colleagues, we have a very important question on the agenda: this is the issue of the President of Ukraine's urgent message on the internal and external situation of Ukraine. I would like to invite President Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u30	Great Ukrainian people! Highly worthy and prominent newly elected National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dignified Foreign Visitors! The challenges and threats facing our nation have not been faced by Ukraine since the Second World War and the post-war settlement with the Ukrainian National Movement, and at the same time the unique chance that the very responsible Ukrainian people have given to the Ukrainian State by choosing the pro-European constitutional majority for the first time before the Ukrainian Parliament - such opportunities have never been opened to Ukraine. This is a comprehensive feature of the internal and external situation. And my task with you is to pass on the simple formula: take the threats and take the chance. In these days, Ukrainians celebrate the anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, a heroic rebellion against tyranny. Only 365 days have passed since then. Only once did the earth turn around the sun. And I think it's been a long time. The country has changed so much and the world around us has changed so much! Tomorrow is the year after Vilnius. On November 28-29, 2013 in Vilnius, Ukraine was to sign the historic Association Agreement. But then the Minor Russian regime boldly tried to bury the European perspective of our great European nation. In fact, the discussion of the choice between the European Union and the Customs Union, I think, was just an osmosis. I'm absolutely sure of that. At that time, our neighbors, along with the fifth column inside the country, were at an accelerated pace to dismantle the Ukrainian statehood. Ukraine has been confused with insurmountable debts, purposeful (and now those sitting in this room can confirm it), deliberately destroyed, destroyed, and destroyed the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Army. Services were destroyed under the control of foreign citizens. Keep this regime under control for another 2-3 years, and you and I would only have a sign with you. Such a historic end was programmed by them. However, the Dignity Revolution blew up that hellish computer along with its devilish program. We, as the people of Ukraine, broke down a year ago. And then the enemy came at us with a war. The military threat, the pursuit of our sovereignty, our independence, our territorial integrity, the disregard for international law by one of the largest countries in the world, the crisis of global and European security systems and the attempts to resort once again to a historicly bankrupt policy of the peacemaking of the aggressor, the lack of reliable guarantees of external security, which prevents us from fully counting on existing international legal instruments to protect our Ukrainian national interests. These are the main challenges and are the main threats facing our country. By the way, World War III does not need to scare us. In fact, no one is going to start it. And that's also important to take into account in the analysis. So we are with you, distinguished newly elected national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! We live in conditions of war. And this war is certainly stopping our plans. For example, how do you convince investors to invest money in a warring state? How can we ensure a steady growth of the country when much of the economy is simply destroyed physically? And on these questions, you and I need to find the answers together. Nevertheless, I am confident that my peace plan, based on it, the peace plan, the Minsk Protocol and the Minsk Memorandum will ultimately bring peace to Donbassa. As a non-alternative basis for political settlement, this document is recognized by the whole world, by the way, including the Russian Federation, which has actually signed under this Minsk memorandum. Yet, as we look to the future, we see clearly that the establishment of peace on Donbassa will not mean the removal of the military threat from the east. Regrettably, this threat is looking at a very far - reaching historical perspective and will constantly require great effort and colossal resources. This is a reality that Ukraine has realized too late, which we can hardly change, but which we need to learn to resist, sorry, sometimes even sleep with a revolver under the pillow because of the so-called enemy at the gate. [[Applause]] By the way, our success in reform is even more feared than our victory on the front. So not only are they targeting our cities, but economic aggression, which is designed not only to weaken Ukraine, but to maximize us, to exhaust Ukraine to the fullest extent possible. The seeds on this ground of discouragement, depression, strife, chaos in the heads are already the tasks of the present-day followers of Hebbels, mobilized for the information war against Ukraine. And when it comes to a key internal challenge, I think they're left with corruption. I would also like to call poverty in this context, but it is clear that the root cause of the very low standard of living of the vast majority of Ukrainians is the total corruption of the state apparatus, the sphere of public services, the incompetence and inefficiency of government. Mercantile, as it were, meaningless corruption, where the stronger inner ally of our external enemy is than his ideologically motivated fifth column. And unemployment, poverty, social injustice are now threatening not only the rise of social protests, but they can, and will certainly, be used by the authorities to destabilize the situation in the country. And on this, by the way, I'd like to put aside the black paints and describe the unique possibilities that the Declaration of Dignity has revealed to the whole country, both before those who have participated in it, and before those who have done hair under their foreheads, and sometimes even hated our revolution, before that part of this room that's united into a new coalition, and I welcome you, and thank you for that, and even before those who remain in opposition. "There was no happiness, yes, disaster helped," says the Ukrainian proverb. Any action that provokes opposition teaches Newton's third law. So aggression against Ukraine from the East mobilized the world to support Ukraine. Yes, we were not at war. But no one should protect us except ourselves, especially in the mid-1990s, and the Ukrainian authorities did not take care of joining NATO at the right time as the most reliable system of collective security. And later, some in this room played, blowing up balloons (we all remember this), but our Western neighbors in the post-Radians camp took advantage of this opportunity without hindrance back in the '90s. Yet, we have received tremendous support and trust from all over the world. The Dignity Revolution is a colossal and heroic resistance against aggression, the return of our country to democracy, the holding of free democratic presidential elections, the holding of free democratic parliamentary elections. All of this has raised the international authority of Ukraine and the level of our partnership with the Great Seven countries, with the member states of the European Union, with more than a hundred States that are strong in supporting Ukraine, including in international organizations at the General Assembly of the United Nations. This authority, the world's belief in the potential success of the Ukrainian project, the willingness to help implement it, we should be able to convert to a wide flow of foreign investment into the Ukrainian economy, which, in a bunch of hard, everyday work of each of us, will start to raise Ukrainian social standards to European levels. Historical fact,” wrote Dmitri Donzov in The Foundations of Our Politics, “that no nation was liberated only by its own forces. They were able to achieve their political goals only when they were involved in the matter, a circle of ideas of a more general nature, associated it with the interests of other nations. And that's what we're going to do right now. In terms of our internal capabilities, one of the main drivers of sustainable development has emerged in the last year, a stable democratic Ukrainian political community. That's what our neighbours in Poland, the Czech Republic, the Baltic countries were in in the early 1990s and what we lacked for a successful start to reforms. Now we have almost a national consensus: where to move, where to build. Only the details are discussed, just the question, how better. Ukraine’s stricken ideological equilibrium, which was 23 years old when Ukraine balanced between East and West, finally changed completely: one hundred percent of Ukrainians are now a single state. [[Applause]] To the one country! The constitutional majority of Ukrainians see it as a unitary country, no federalizations! [[Applause]] And that, by the way, is a warm welcome to those from the East or the West who advise us to federalize. [[Applause]] Why is that?Oh, my God! You can advise, but the Ukrainians are against it. And we are finally an authority that knows how to hear and carry out Ukrainian dreams. I sincerely hope so. The vast majority of Ukrainian citizens finally support the implementation of the Agreement with the European Union – the Association Agreement – and the idea of Ukraine's accession to the European Union. It's never been before. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we should use this. At last, the record score reached the number of people who viewed Ukrainian as the only national language! [[Applause]] By the way, and in the last year, not least thanks to Russia, because I can't see any more how to explain it, the number of supporters of Ukraine's accession to NATO has increased three or four times. [[Applause]] True, this question remains the only one of the so - called complex subjects in which a number of polar thoughts are still maintained in several areas. But in general, much of the country’s artificial division by geographical, ethnic, linguistic, and religious significance has finally been overcome. And this division goes back to the past. [[Applause]] Ukraine has never been as united as it is now. The enemy has set himself the goal of not simply reviewing the boundaries, the purpose of another. Nobody needs Donetsk or Lugansk or Donbas. We know clearly that the question was to break the state or completely wipe it off the map, to destroy us as the great European people. But the enemy was hard-calculated. The Ukrainian political nation has finally established itself in all areas of the Western and Eastern, Northern, and Southern territories, bringing together representatives of different ethnic groups and speakers of different languages. By participating in the 2014 country war for Ukraine's independence, our Russian-speaking compatriots demonstrated that they love Ukraine in Russian no less than we do in Ukrainian. [[Applause]] And I am proud of the wisdom and responsibility of our fellow countrymen. We've all become the only organism together that can stand up to any political manipulation from the inside and the pressure from the outside, and this is another important guarantee of the success of the reform. Highly esteemed colleagues, the early election concludes with the creation of political preconditions for change. I am absolutely convinced that I did the right thing by disbanding the previous Parliament, even though it was then my decision that had been severely criticized. Honest, transparent, democratic elections for the first time in our history have upgraded the Supreme Council of Ukraine by more than 50 percent. [[Applause]] And I am very pleased to see among you as those who have already had a great political experience behind them – the experience of reform has been severely tested, but especially glad to see the number of new young faces here. Because you are exactly the kind of fresh blood that Ukrainian politics really needs. Welcome to the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] And I sincerely congratulate you on the election of the National Deputies and the acceptance of the oath and call for our joint work for the benefit of Ukraine. As President of Ukraine, I firmly believe we'll have it all. You have a record of short talkers, especially when compared to 1998, some remember how long it took. I am convinced that we will have a very short premiere because we do not have the right to spend time. Congratulations, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich, on your election as speaker! Already behind the record of the rapid formation of the coalition, and in advance, I think it's a brilliant but very responsible formation of the government. In order to carry out the reforms, it seems that at the start, you and I are picking up the necessary speed to take off. I urge you not to lose your speed. The important thing was that when the job was created, I was pleased to see it, but a detailed plan of fundamental changes was made in the country. And these large-scale transformations are going to be the next stage of our revolution, flowing smoothly into effective reform. As the initiator of this very approach to the coalition agreement, I would like to thank you for making it so responsible and thorough. I hope that its implementation will be carried out with the same zeal as the preparation of the Coalition Agreement. I think the practice was very impressive. I read this agreement carefully. There are things I might have written differently. For example, in the regulatory part. Well, unless the principle of consensual adoption of decisions by the Coalition Council only unanimously resembles the "Veto Liberum" in the medieval Seise of the Commons, when by one single cry of "No! " Is there any way to block any decision? I think Polish historians could tell us a lot of interesting things about this experience. But it doesn't really change that. In its implementation, the reformation, the pro-European Coalition Agreement, I am a trusted ally of the new Parliament and will primarily be governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, where, more or less, the responsibilities and responsibilities of Ukraine are clearly, well, written down. [[Applause]] I'm sure only from effective interaction, from our synergy can we really achieve the results that the Ukrainian people expect. And I'm going to do everything I can to ensure that the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is effectively and coherent. The name of the new prime minister circles here in the air. I offered it on the first day after the election. Thank you to the faction for supporting the President's proposal, and in just a few minutes, I will make an appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Arsenius Petrovich and I have learned the lessons of recent history well, and since June we have been building our work together so that it seems only in the last days of the parliamentary campaign that we do not go to elections with one column. But the team we have, I have no doubt, the entire team of the Parliamentary Coalition must be one -- our national Ukrainian victory assembly. I recall the words that one of the founding fathers of Independent Ukraine, who also sat in this room, Viacheslava Crnovola, who said, "both parliaments and prime ministers and presidents come and go. All that remains is the sacred cause of our historic rebirth, the cause of democracy, the cause of state independence. Let us love Ukraine more than anything today, when we have it, so that we do not have to love bitterly, losing it." He also said (he said, by the way, it wasn't me!) Regarding the revolution: "We need reforms today, not revolutions; the power of law, not the law of power; the well-being of the people, not the people's poverty; social harmony, not the lack of hostility; democracy, not dictatorship." I think today is exactly the time to put the words of Chernobyl into practice. [[Flushing]] Dear National Deputies! The National Institute of Strategic Research, with the participation of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, has prepared a draft analytical report on Ukraine's internal and external status in the area of national security. No, this is not the truth in the last instance, but a fundamental basis for a broad discussion, including your participation in the relevant committees. This material will benefit us in adopting strategic decisions and drafting laws. Today, I will briefly address some of the most important issues of our common strategy with you regarding national security in a broader sense. We have the worst cases in the judicial system. Our, if you'll excuse me, "the persecutors" have seen their way into the courts, and they've spied on them by their own people, who are now turning them into a lawyer for the protection of the rights and interests of the former regime's ominous representatives. [[Applause]] The parable in the tongues was the judge's decision to release the commander of the Berkutu Company, who is accused of shooting the Celestial 100th. I cite just one example, not because he's single, but because he's very talkative on his own. The judicial system, which, to a greater extent than anything else, needs to be sanctioned, this cleansing is by far the most opposed. As President, I have no right to press specific courts and I will not do that. But we are not simply allowed to change the system with you, but we are commanded by the electorate. And that's what we need to start with. So one of the first must be a genuine judicial reform. [[Applause]] I'm going to submit the relevant bills as extra-necessary. Because with such courts as now, only those with legal problems can feel safe. And law-abiding citizens should stay away from such courts, and the truth will not be found there. Clearly, the reform of all law enforcement agencies is also relevant to judicial reform. Thank you so much for writing this chapter beautifully in the Coalition Agreement. Thank you to the members of the military who are currently in this Parliament, there is a professional approach. Thank you for being one of the first, or perhaps the first, reform of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General's Office. Let me remind you that the old Supreme Council, including our joint and my insistence, has been able to pass the new Law on Public Prosecutions, and will soon enter into force, as will the Law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Dear friends! I have a specific proposal here for all those who are involved in the procedure laid down in the law to appoint the head of this vast institution. I propose to invite a man from outside Ukraine to this position. It will have one advantage: the absence of connections in the Ukrainian political elite, no one is godfather, marriage, brother. [[Applause]] Equipped from all the political powers of technocrats to whom we all trust, which will demonstrate the effectiveness of our actions. Judging from the boisterous applause and the dancing in the hall, not everyone supports this idea. Reform. I have no doubt that reformers of all times and nations have not refused to join the changes of foreigners. And we now have a lot of intelligence from foreign consultants, but that's not enough. My idea is that because of the changes in the laws, it is possible to grant the right to engage in the public service of foreigners, including to become part of the government. [[Applause]] Or expand the circle of people to whom the President of Ukraine can grant Ukrainian citizenship, and in an accelerated regime. And the decisive steps taken by such foreigners, who will be willing to form their own citizenship and accept Ukrainian citizenship, will be to confirm the determination of our potential partners and candidates. [[Applause]] Thanks to the last one. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? We'll have the opportunity to discuss the President's initiatives. Thanks to the resonance in the media, you may have recently experienced a number of major anticorruption processes. I'm very often teased and advised not to take out the trash. I personally think differently: The more I announce it, the faster people feel that the government will not tolerate corruption. And in the trash, by the way, if you live in the trash, you can choke. Garbage needs to be taken out. However, I would not want to give the wrong impression that corruption can only be overcome by reprisals. As long as the gum is right, it will grow new and new corrupters like mushrooms after the rain. Where to deal more effectively with the causes of corruption, the destruction of its mechanisms and the human nature, "nothing to do," but deregulation, the decline in the role of government, although not a panacea, but a very powerful drug to combat this epidemic. I have carefully analyzed most of the deregulation decisions that have been adopted in recent years. It's a very interesting invention, though take it and patent it. The media seem to be being eliminated, and the vendetta is getting smaller and smaller, and its function is being spread and smeared among other ministries and departments. In my own practice, I can tell you that the entrepreneur doesn't care what kind of X-ray they come to him with. [[Applause]] I'm sure such deregulation is propaganda. Real deregulation, along with tax reform, must start the economy and restore growth. And I have no doubt that we will certainly succeed in this process. The reform of the defence sector, namely the army, the special services, the military and industrial complex, should also be part of the tectonic transformations. There has been too much belief in the prospect of peace in recent times around the world. And we believed in eternal peace too early. We now reap bitter fruits and alien aggression, and our own irresponsible pacifism. I think you're all aware that we have no other way of building military assimilations, and we're about to submit an appropriate draft budget to this Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm counting on our cooperation. I'm counting on patriotism. I expect that today we will be able to provide an adequate answer, including a budget for these threats, because around our borders foreign soldiers, like locusts, and in the coming years, Ukraine must primarily count on the viability of its own Armed Forces. To that end, we need, first of all, to invest in the financing and efforts of armament and the rearming of the military by means of high - precision firepower, modern intelligence and communication devices, new armory, modernize and increase the amount of military aviation. In the ATO zone, the inefficiency of the old system has been detected: rear, object, food, technical, medical. We are changing it along with the Secretary of Defense and with the wide involvement of volunteers who are not burdened with the dead and sometimes simply, sorry, stupid instructions from World War I. [[Applause]] It's very simple: those who fail are released and need not be afraid of it; those who break through have to sit down. Inevitability of punishment must be a key principle. [[Applause]] To ensure the rhythmic financing of military-industrial enterprises, we are now starting to design a state defense order not for a year, but for a minimum of three, although a wider planning horizon is needed. The inevitable is a certain militarization of society within healthy limits. Even early military training should become one of the main subjects in school. That's where they lay the foundations of military patriotic education, and we have to re-establish it. [[Congrats]] We don't have a choice today except, for now, to give up the full transition of the army on a contractual basis. No matter how unpopular this may sound, our neighbors have adjusted our plans without a summons, not yet. Today, it is undeniable that Ukraine’s 2010 out of lockup failed and could not guarantee the security and territorial integrity of our country. She needs to be abandoned. [[Applause]] This position led to great losses. That's why we decided to return to the course of integration into the Euro-Atlantic security space. [[Applause]] We are already deepening our cooperation with NATO. We're working on the operational compatibility of the Ukrainian Armed Forces with the army of Alliance member states, refocusing on NATO standards in the defence and security complex. But at the same time, I urge everyone to realize that the political speculation around the immediate accession to NATO is not approaching today, and unfortunately, it is moving away from Ukraine. First, it is necessary, not by word, but by work, to achieve the criteria that NATO needs. And secondly, let's be honest: we need to take very careful consideration of this subject of a large number from some of our foreign partners. They made a statement -- they immediately got the answer that Ukraine was never going to be a NATO member. It's not up to them. This is for the Ukrainian people to decide. [[Applause]] And we need to start not with loud statements that have already been made, but with real practical reforms. By the way, the reforms and criteria in the NATO Membership Action Plan and the reforms and criteria in the Association Agreement coincide by 96 percent. Let's build and implement the Association Agreement with the European Union. Dear compatriots, distinguished national MPs! Democracy is also a tool for national security. The parliamentary coalition you formed is essentially a constitutional majority. That's 302 deputies. There has never been such a coalition. By the way, I have no doubt that we can still grow by a few deputies. This creates a tremendous temptation not to hear the minority. And that's what I'd like to warn you about. My ideological thinkers are, of course, those who have united into a coalition. But I'm not the president of the coalition. I am the President of the whole country, the President of all Ukrainians. And like those who voted. Dear friends of the opposition, I address you. I am the president of all Ukrainians, both those who voted for me and those who had a different choice. So I have to listen to the parliamentary opposition. The unity of the country is of undeniable value to us. Once so, it is even more important than hearing the opinion of opposition in the Council to count on the existence of an ideological minority in society. Sadly, many people still look to the Customs Union, support the second language of the State, and so forth. I will be frank, we will not give the media such thoughts and we will never give the veto the geopolitical and civilisational decisions of a convincing majority, which are evident in the presidential and parliamentary elections. But the idea of decentralization of power that I have planned and supported will provide impressive opportunities to take into account local specificities, including matters of faith, historical memory, language, religion, ethnic traditions, and other differences. [[Applause]] All of these should be treated with respect. This also applies to questions of speech. In the end, the main difference between Ukraine and Russia is not only in language, but in a different political culture, which was demonstrated during the elections and during our Dignity Revolution, in the different types of relations between power and society, and in a different attitude towards freedom and democracy. These changes, however, do not remove the day - to - day issue of support for Ukrainian language and what is called positive discrimination in European political culture. This is a form of support for those who have been subjected to persecution and oppression for a long time. And Ukrainian as the only national language is an extremely important consolidating factor in society and the state. [[Applause]] National security concerns also apply to church problems. This is an overly sensitive sphere that needs caution, where the opposite sharp movements, where they measure not seven but seventy - seven times before they are cut off. But from the experience of recent years, we will never forget that at times the preparation for the absorption of the land begins with a joint prayer or baptismal movement. All of us need to remember our love for the Fatherland, our love for Ukraine. And I'm sure it should be our first priority. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not choose the time when we are born or die, but we determine what to do in this period. It is up to us whether we enter history as victims of internal strife and external aggression, or the power and spirit of the Ukrainian people, Ukrainian soldiers and heroes, those who defend us on the Donetsk land and help us from the Ukrainian heavens, that will allow us to build another successful country. Our policy should be to move step by step from the country of the Dignity Revolution to, in fact, the country of dignity. And I'm sure you and I can build it. I want you to mention every time you enter this session hall as I do when I go to the bank administration's house, those who have given their lives for Ukraine, both hundreds of miles from here and a few blocks from the hundreds of miles from here, and to also mention the living who need effective governance, successful reforms, developed economy, social guarantees and justice, just justice. And I think we're going to be able to build that state. We no longer have time to talk, this is clearly confirmed by the Ukrainian people. Most, the coalition is created. The political will to change is there. A clear plan of action and a coalition agreement too. We have a chance to do it. So we get to work and in five years we're ready to apply for membership in the European Union. [[Applause]] And lastly, I think it's the most important thing. The Gospel teaches that the kingdoms that are divided within will fall. So we're going to be the only ones, because it's time to party in the fight for Ukraine, not fight against each other. It is time to unite around peace and around reforms. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I want to officially announce that on November 27, 2014, a coalition of deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine was formed and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. A coalition of MP factions was formed on the basis of the Treaty on the Coalition of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, signed by the heads of the MP factions: the "Block of Petra Poroshenko" faction, the "National Front" faction, the Self-Help faction, the "Radical Party of Oleg Láška" faction and the faction of the All-Ukrainian union of Fatherschina, composed of 302 national deputies of Ukraine, who, by their personal signatures, confirmed their agreement to become members of the coalition. The list of members of the designated MPs with the individual signatures of the national deputies, which is an integral part of the agreement, has been distributed to you. Dear colleagues, we can continue to consider matters of order the day after Mr. President's speech. And according to our agenda, we are moving on to the question of the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In accordance with articles 85, 114 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council for the submission of the President of Ukraine. According to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine coalition, I would like to request your attention, honourable gentlemen of the people's deputies, the coalition of MPs has tabled their proposal to run for office as Prime Minister to the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine will now apply for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. To present the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, I would like to invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received the signature of the heads of the five factions. Head of the Political Party "Political Party" "Blok Petra Poroshenko" Yuri Lucenko, Head of the Political Party "Political Front" Alexander Turchinov, Head of the Political Union "Samohelp" Berezuk, Head of the Political Party of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška Oleg Láško, Head of the Political Party of the All-Ukrainian Union "Batačina" Yulia Timoshenko. With the information that the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council has formed a coalition of MP factions, a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council proposes to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovic. [[Applause]] The Ukrainian Constitution gives the President 15 days to determine the application. In this situation, I have 15 seconds. I am signing the submission of the President of Ukraine in accordance with paragraph 9 of the first article, part three of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and I am submitting, at the suggestion of a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth call of the application for the appointment of Arsenius Yatsenuk as Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And what's more, I call on the entire session room to support the filing of the coalition and the filing of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me now, in accordance with the submission of the President of Ukraine, to invite a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk. [[Applause]] Please, Reverend Arsenija Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u35	Dear Ukrainian people! Mr. President! Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! It's hard and hard to make history, and you and I have the hardest load on our shoulders. The bearer of historical responsibility is to preserve the state and win our independence, "the country in war, the people in distress," and it's up to us to stop the aggression. We are faced with external aggression, namely, the Russian military invasion, which is nothing more than trespassing on territorial integrity and our independence as an attempt to destroy Ukraine. You can fight an army, and you can probably win an army, but you can never defeat the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian nation. [[Applause]] Dear Mr. President, my hand to you to carry out everything you just said from this rostrum is our shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u36	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u37	Dear friends, now there is an offer to move quickly towards the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. 2015 will be more difficult than in 2014, everything in our hands. Let's go, let's go! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u38	Honourable National Deputies, a statement by Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk in accordance with the submission of the coalition by the President of Ukraine, have been made in accordance with the submission of the President of Ukraine to the Parliament. Is there a need to discuss a candidate? [[B in m in s a l in]] We discussed it. Vote. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the question of the appointment of Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk of Ukraine. Please vote and support Arsenius Petrovich's candidacy. Vote, Your Honor. [[14:59:34]] For 341
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, by factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I wanted to thank you for your fruitful, effective, record-breaking work. And I am confident that the form of cooperation that has been declared between the President, the Prime Minister, the government and the Supreme Council today will continue in the future. Thank you. With a holiday! With the beginning of the work of the Supreme Council! With the most effective majority and all the composition of the Supreme Council! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u41	Let us thank the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Please sit down. We have a few questions left with you that we can consider today in accordance with our Coalition Agreement, and some questions will be passed on to December 2. The first question is, oh. The next question is about explaining the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. The decision is given to you. If there's no objection, I'm willing to put her to the vote. Is there no objection? None. I am betting on the vote of the Decree (1003) on the visibility of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, fellow nationals. Please vote. [[15:03:10]] For 366 Decision taken. Next, dear colleagues. Next question is about the Committees of the Supreme Council. You've been asked the same question, we've been working on it in the Preparatory Working Group. But as far as I can tell, there is. One, two, three. Three questions. Let's consult, dear fellows. I think if we agreed to move on. It's got jurisdictional clearances. If we take this question to the formation of a personal committee, I don't think there's anything problematic here, do I? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is everyone okay with this?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-11-27-m1.u42	Then, dear colleagues, I declare the High Council closed and announce that on Tuesday at 10 a.m., we will begin a new plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your work and your trust, distinguished national MPs. Thank you.
