ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to take your seats and we'll start our work. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:32:21]] There are 327 national deputies in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! I want to ask our technical services right now to include the broadcast of our session and so that the people on the street can hear about the problems we are discussing, the decisions we are going to make with you. I mean, my dear colleagues, the situation in the country is very tense. Regrettably, the aggression of the Russian Federation’s military forces in Crimea continues. Under the roof of the Russian military, they try to build a farce called "referendum", which has no legal legitimate consequences. But it is this farce that the enemies of Ukraine are using to do evil against our nation in order to annex part of its territory. Ukraine will not allow that. At the same time, I want to tell all the honourable people's deputies, I want to tell all our citizens: the problem is not just in Crimea. There is an attempt to destabilize the situation in the east and the south. The agency of the neighbouring country is working on this, both by provocative agents and agitators and mercenaries, for whom the state of Ukraine is not a family that is willing to commit crimes against its country. And, you know, there's a lot of talk about political repression. We actually had this problem. Dear colleagues, the new Ukrainian authorities will not allow political repression, but the new Ukrainian authorities will fight hard against any acts of separatism, any crimes against their own country. The danger is that these provocations are designed for the use of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. And Russian troops continue to be along the eastern border of our country. So today it's not a threat to a particular region, it's a threat to our entire state. We have brought Ukraine’s Armed Forces into full combat readiness, started all-U.S. military training. And we see clearly the state of our army, to which the regime team Janukovich-Azarov led. In fact, we're starting to rebuild the Ukrainian Armed Forces from scratch. This is a serious problem. And when today there are provocations who are calling for military intervention, for military conflict, I want to tell them that's what the Russian Federation is trying to do. This is what they will provoke us to do for two weeks in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And I ask those who work for our enemy today to calm down. To calm down because our military is courageous, they are responsible for their responsibility. They did not provoke our military personnel into a scheme that was worked in Abkhazia. And when our opponents saw that this scheme didn't work, they started hiring agitators who were talking about conducting an immediate military operation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, opening our eastern borders, opening all of Ukraine for direct aggression. That won't happen. The army and Ukrainian authorities will fulfill their responsibility to protect Ukraine. I want to inform you that a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council has taken place tonight and, given the threat that is now, the next decision has been taken. And that is the decision I would ask for the Supreme Council to support. To create a National Guard based on the internal forces of Ukraine, whose goal is to protect the country and citizens from all criminals, from external and internal aggression. Declare partial mobilization to the National Guard of Ukraine and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. First of all, it's not going to be about children 18 years old, it's going to be about volunteers -- people who went through military service. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in spite of all the difficulties, all the problems that are now in the economy of our country will provide all the primary needs of the National Guard and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And besides, the honourable colleagues of Ukraine today need more than moral support, Ukraine needs both technical and military assistance. And that's why one of the first questions that the Supreme Council is proposing is that we ask our Parliament to guarantee our security states to fulfil our obligations. Dear National Deputies, we held the Conciliation Council, and that's why we started our work a little later. The decision has been made so that now, before we begin our work, we can listen to the Minister of Defense and the Prime Minister. In addition, I was approached this morning by the members of the factions of the Party of the Regions who asked to hear the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. I hope we'll do that in the near future. Is there no objection to starting work in this format? I ask, Your Honor, to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ministers in charge of Admiral Tenukh's defence minister. Traditionally, my dear colleagues, as he approaches the rostrum, I would like to welcome the birthday of the national deputy of Dubovy Alexander Fedorovich. Let's support him. [[Applause]] Please, Mr. Admiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u2	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Deputies! In a difficult political environment around our country, when the Russian Federation invaded Ukraine, namely the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in society, there is a growing concern. But the question is quite appropriate: Why are Ukraine’s Armed Forces not active? The answer to this question is mixed and is at the level of the legal status of the Armed Forces as well as of the state of the art. First of all, there is no de jure of open aggression: the leadership of the Russian Federation does not recognize the timeliness of its troops to the events in Crimea. Everything that's going on is about self-defense. Secondly, no legal regime has been declared, without which the use of the Armed Forces is illegal and entails criminal responsibility for both those who order the use of the military and those who carry it out. Any active action by the Armed Forces to stabilize the situation in Crimea will be presented to the world society as using force against its own population. Third. In fact, since the existence of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, there has never been a good deal of attention given to how it was financed. It was carried out only within the social package and no more. Next. A military and military strategic error has been made to determine the appropriate vectors of activated military threats to the state. We have never considered the danger of Russia. Therefore, when it comes to the proper successful use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces against such an opponent, it is a matter of considerable cost of public resources for their deployment and long-term preparation and equipping. As we know, the Russian Federation Armed Forces, which are conducting training around the eastern borders of Ukraine, in Crimea, have deployed the following group of 220,000 troops, 1 thousand 800 tanks, over 400 helicopters, 150 aircraft, and 60 ships. This group is dominated by the Armed Forces of Ukraine on several occasions. An organization, resources, strategy, tactics, and a spirit of warfare prevails in war. At present, the Armed Forces have only the last two elements -- tactics and a fighting spirit. We've brought all the Armed Forces to full alert. All the Armed Forces have taken control of the training plan in both the east and the south. But the result is very disappointing. If we have a total number of ground troops of 41,000, of them should have been ready in peace, that is, now that the team was given, they should have been ready 20 thousand, I'll tell you, the actual state is only 6 thousand ready. So day and night, the Ministry of Defense, the General Staff, the government is working to get out of this situation right now, the situation is extremely difficult, it needs serious resources, so that we can immediately create this group that can be ready for some kind of action, both in the south and in the east. And because partial mobilization has been announced, it is extremely important for us, and we are about to do the tasks that we have planned. So I would go to you as a member of the Supreme Council with the help of the following: we need to change the Law on Purchasing and Conducting Tenders in a Violent and Extraordinary Period, because it's impossible for us to run from one enterprise to another and prove that we need fuel, and they say, "Do the tenders," and the tender will take you, you know how long. During this period, there must be a clear decision that these needs are not to be addressed immediately. The moral spirit of the armies that stand in Sevastopol, who stand in Crimea, is wary. But their patience is already at stake. And so, of course, the creation of the National Guard, the creation of the national teams that we're willing to provide the bases, we're willing to give those teachers and specialists who will train and have to go to Crimea, and we have to go to the local population and not be afraid, none of them will shoot. The Armed Forces have taken over the Crimean Canal, the Armed Forces have exhibited their forces on the Crimean Embroidery, on Chongari, and in the Armenian direction. So further action and preparation should be concentrated in one: resources, money, money, and money again. And I'm addressing all of our rich and respected people, if their national dignity and their national feelings are open, they can give this money to the Armed Forces in order for them to be able to arm themselves and to be able to bring in the technology that can be used and used in one way or another. Thank you for your attention. If you have any questions, you're ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u3	We don't have the option, and we didn't have a deal with our faction leaders about what's going to happen. We heard the information. Thank you, Mr. Acting Minister. I ask, Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies, the great Ukrainian people! I will brief you after a report by the Ukrainian Defence Minister on what measures the Ukrainian government has used to finance the Ukrainian army. Unfortunately, in such a hall and in such a general setting, I cannot reveal all the data that came to me as Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state of readiness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I can only confirm that during the last four years, a systemic diversion has been made to undermine national security and the defence of the country. It's now come to the point that the government in general is doing what we're doing is we're delivering TC-1 to get the planes to fly, diesel, gasoline. This is because there are no budgetary allocations for such expenditure. I won't go into detail how we did it, but we did. Seven thousand TCs, 60,000 fuel-oil materials are delivered to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The supply of goods is now being resolved, starting with shoes and finishing with clothing. The figures that I've been given about the state of the national material reserve, as well as the removal from the NZ of commodity values, are just amazing. Prosecutor's Office and the Military Prosecutor's Office, first of all, should immediately initiate investigations and arrests of all those involved in the theft of the Ministry of Defence. [[Applause]] The country’s distinguished national deputies, the situation in Crimea, is extremely difficult, especially after the financing of our Armed Forces as well. Despite three attempts to shut down the National Bank and State Treasury system, this morning we found a way to deliver to each military officer the 125 million dollars that the government has set aside yesterday. We have yet another payment system in place, and I won't go into detail again, but every military officer this morning, we counted from treasury to the appropriate payment system. Everyone gets the money. How long will this take? As much as we can pay. The government is doing everything to secure these payments, but we understand that this is not about payments now, not about payments, but about how and how to solve this most dramatic and complex conflict in the territory of Europe of the 21st century. This is not a bilateral conflict. This is nothing more than the actions of the Russian Federation aimed at undermining the global security system. [[Applause]] Let me briefly remind you, honourable Members of Parliament to all about the Budapest Memorandum. And the Ukrainian government is calling on Parliament to vote by constitutional majority on the declaration and the request to the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding for the fulfilment of the guarantees given to the Ukrainian State after the surrender of nuclear weapons. What does the military conflict and military aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine mean today? This means that a country that has voluntarily renounced its nuclear status and has received assurances from the world’s leading countries remains unprotected and remains alone with an armed state that has nuclear status. And so my call to our Western partners was next. If you do not provide the guarantees that have been signed in the Budapest Memorandum, then how will you convince Iran or North Korea to renounce the status of nuclear powers if the world does not provide appropriate safeguards? That is why we ask the Ukrainian Parliament to vote on the application and demonstrate the will of the Ukrainian people to the Budapest Memorandum of Protection. We ask no one, we ask only one thing: military aggression has taken place in our country, those who have guaranteed that this aggression will not be carried out, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, must protect an independent sovereign state. It's a country requirement! [[Applause]] As far as the so-called referendum is concerned, the so-called Crimean authorities. On behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I state that no legitimate authority exists in the form of the so-called Government of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the territory of autonomy. This is a group of bandits who have taken over in an unconstitutional way and are supported by the Russian military. That's why we have to start a national political dialogue by the Crimea, and the government is ready for that. But this dialogue will not be held under guns or under Russian tanks. We are prepared to see that the territory of autonomy, which is and will be an integral part of the Ukrainian State, flourish. But I think that the Ukrainians who live in Crimea and what these people call themselves Crimeans, we have deep respect for our criminals, because this is our country, this is our territory, and it is, it was and will be part of Ukraine (). [[Applause]] Perhaps they do not know, or perhaps they know, what happened in Abkhazia, which took place in Ossetia, which took place in Transnistria. I got data, for example, on how people now live in Abkhazia. Of the $5 billion that was promised, only 500 came in, stolen by the so-called separatist governments in the respective territories. People have no wages, no jobs, no security. I'm not talking about what it's like to forget how restable they look. But there's gang-forming, there's gang-grouping, there's ruined sanatoriums, there's arms trafficking, there's drugs, and that's what's going on in these areas. That's what the "green men" want, which are now in total 18,000 people in Crimea. Crime doesn't deserve that kind of fate. We will fight for our unity and for each criminal and for his fate, which now resides in the territory of autonomy. As for the so-called referendum. So I looked, for example, at which countries the Abkhaz referendum was recognized. A serious list: Venezuela, Nicaragua, Nauru, and Tubla I think that North Korea and Syria can still join this Crimea list. No legitimate referendum will be held in Crimea. And any so-called "referendum" solution has no legal power. On Friday, we await the decision of the Venice Commission that holding a referendum in Crimea, as well as the adoption by the State Duma of Russia of a law on actual annexation of Ukrainian territories, is a violation of international law. As far as further steps are concerned, honourable national deputies, with your permission, I am going to the United States of America today. On behalf of the Ukrainian Government, I will meet at the highest level, including President Barack Obama of the United States. It's a guarantee country, it's a country that signed the Budapest Memorandum and it's a country like the entire Western world, which has made a very clear statement and has been harshly expressed for the territorial integrity and integrity of the Ukrainian State. And they demanded the Russian Federation, as well as the Budapest Memorandum participants, to immediately implement international agreements and agreements, to stop military aggression, and to sit at the negotiating table. On behalf of the Government of Ukraine, I state that Ukraine is ready for transparent negotiations with the Russian Federation and Ukraine and for the reconstruction of a new type of relationship between Ukraine and Russia, where Russia recognizes the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine and where Russia recognises Ukraine's course of European integration, where we are committed in bilateral relations, not simply signing them, and where Russia ceases to take over the territory of a sovereign and independent state, which they formerly called fraternal. Now it's clear what a "brotherly relationship" is, it's a "brother" in full ammunition on tanks and BTRs entering the territory of a sovereign state. We don't need that kind of brotherhood. [[Applause]] Our Western partners took the initiative to form a contact group. And we support the formation of this contact group. I am in constant contact with all the Heads of State of the European Union and with the U.S. government. I've asked again for a phone call with the prime minister of the Russian Federation, Medvedev, and I'm not going to fall off the crown. We are ready to talk to the Russians, but unfortunately the Russians have other problems and questions, and during the fifth day, I cannot have a conversation with the President or Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, perhaps because of public appeal they will be given a report about the time to speak to Ukraine on the telephone, not because of the means of speciality that they communicate with the Russian military. So when we go back to the contact group, we think the first step is to form a contact group at the level of the guarantor countries, at the level of the member countries of the European Union, the OSCE, the United Nations organizations, we should sit at the negotiating table. It's purely diplomatic and political. That's what we see today as the only way out of this situation. The Minister of Defense has told you about the ratio of military forces, not my competence to comment on military matters, but for example, the ratio of aviation between Ukraine and Russia is one to 98, let alone the nuclear status of that state. As far as the European Union is concerned, I would like to brief you. In Brussels, for the first time in the history of our bilateral relations, a meeting was held between the Heads of State and Heads of Government of the member states of the European Union and, at your request, the Head of the Ukrainian Government. The results of this meeting are as follows. The European Union has decided to sign with Ukraine the political part of the Association Agreement. [[Applause]] The other one. There was a lot of discussion in this room about the economic consequences of signing a full, inclusive free trade zone called DCFTA. In order to avoid any speculation, primarily in eastern Ukraine, in order for everyone to be convinced that the signing of the economic part of the agreement will give only additional investment and jobs and will not adversely affect the bilateral economic relations between Ukraine and Russia, so that the East knows that the new Ukrainian government does not divide Ukraine west and east. This is the only state, and all Ukrainians are equal, and all Ukrainians are citizens of our state. We made a decision together. And I highly respect the European partners who agreed to this proposal: to hold further consultations on signing a block of documents concerning the free trade area. But at the same time, the European Union stated: The European Union is unilaterally opening up the European market for Ukrainian goods. [[Applause]] The overall aid package offered to Ukraine amounts to $15 billion. But I also want to be honest: the package and the specific amounts are, as Odessa says, two big differences. Because it's about specific things. A specific amount of 610 billion is projected. Excuse me, millions of euros as the macro-financial assistance that Parliament has ratified and 1.4 billion additionally, which is in the form of irreparable financial assistance, grants. So from this high rostrum, I would like to turn to our European partners. We have a very difficult economic situation. So we ask that we speed up the decision to give Ukraine these two billion. The United States government, Congress of the United States, has decided to provide $1 billion in guarantees to the United States government. I think in the shortest terms of the month, we'll be able to get financial assistance. And this is the last I'm going to report to you. A mission of the International Monetary Fund arrived in Ukraine. We've had a few meetings. A law on the actual State Budget Sequester will be introduced to Parliament. This is a twofold reduction in the government budget deficit. All the macroeconomic indicators and all the government revenues of the State budget, which were formed by the government of Yanukovich, Azarov, do not simply not match reality, but are bloated and cannot be realized. We have a very difficult period ahead of us: the reduction of social standards, the suppression of losses -- but this will allow us to get economic growth in the medium term. [[Applause]] I am asking the members of Parliament. Mr. Head and the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In the shortest term, please ratify the Agreement between Ukraine, the European Investment Bank, the European Development Bank and the $300 million reconstruction of so - called nuclear security measures. The other one. The government immediately prepared a draft law on government procurement. The amount of galloping corruption that existed in the government was primarily related to the untransparent and manual administration of the budget through public procurement. Officially on behalf of the government, I say, until a new edition of the Public Procurement Act is adopted, where there will be a transparent budget spending mechanism, the Ukrainian government will not open a single deposit on any company. Because we're not going to be able to continue to steal that money. [[Applause]] Third. A decision has been taken by the government and I also request members of Parliament to immediately vote on the Law on Restoration of Trust in Ukraine’s Judicial System. The point is that those judges who violated the law and the Constitution, those who took bribes, those judges who face Ukrainian corruption in the judicial system, should leave the judicial system immediately and come to the prosecutor to give a witness. This is the text of this law. [[Applause]] With regard to the Ukrainian National Guard Act, we do not have any final calculations on the adoption of this law. Once again, I can tell you that we are in a catastrophic economic situation. But we find every penny where we can't. Tomorrow, new managers will be appointed primarily on demand from business, tax, and customs. So we're step by step giving order. But there is a request to the entire country and to the Ukrainian Parliament. Nobody's fighting for power now. The one who is fighting for power is fighting against Ukraine. I ask you all to fight for Ukraine! For her future and for our territorial integrity and independence! This is our mission, and we swore an oath to the people of Ukraine. Let's do this oath. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I see the head of the Ukrainian Security Service has approached Valentin Alexandrovich Nastavajchenko. I ask him to the rostrum, at the request of the deputies, to inform the bride how the Security Service protects Ukraine from attacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to brief you on the latest, in my opinion, and on the important results of the Ukrainian Security Service as a whole. In two hours, we give an open briefing, as promised, where we will present the evidence, including the detained staff of the General Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, who participate directly in our home land with you in the organization of diversions, in the organization and bribery of our citizens, especially in the eastern areas, to inspire upheavals, to inspire each other's beatings, regardless of political views, regardless of the place of residence. It's an extremely disturbing and extremely dangerous factor now in our country and for our citizens. Not only will the evidence be presented, but specific detained foreign intelligence officers will be presented. The other one. I also report to Parliament and to Ukrainian citizens that all cases that are being investigated by the Attorney General's Office, whether they are entrusted with the implementation of the Security Service or the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are being investigated solely under the control of the Attorney General's Office. Penalties are granted exclusively in the Ukrainian courts for the purpose of procedural action. And I can only report to Parliament that it is now working with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and with the Minister of Internal Affairs at the highest level of trust and efficiency. The people who are currently under court orders, Ukrainian citizens, are in a place of temporary detention, again, the Ukrainian court – whether it's Chewchenkovsky or caveat. Their rights and dignity are what we ensure before the court decides their future fate. And our only proposal, and we ask that the courts be open, accessible, from lawyers and translators, who we are immediately helping to find, to media outlets and people who would like to participate in these meetings. The report was completed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u7	I ask you, honourable national MPs, there is a question, in a different format, we will be able to speak from factions and ask all questions. The only one, Valentin Aleksandrovich, is the faction of the Party of Regions, has asked me to comment on the subject of Mr. Dobkin's detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u8	Ukrainian citizen Dobkin Mikhailo Markovich himself, and this has to be admitted, arrived at the Attorney General's Office, no action was taken forcefully against this citizen, and, I think it was properly done by him, the Attorney General's Office, where, in fact, the conduct of the relevant criminal case was decided that he would remain in a place of temporary detention before the court. This decision has been made in the Ukrainian Security Service. I know that now, and this is the right of another Ukrainian citizen, who also works in Kharkiv in a fairly high position, is now going to the Attorney General's Office to answer in a calm, calm manner, looking into the eyes of the Attorney General's office, all questions within the framework and other criminal matters. People who are detained for the direct commission of crimes and for the mandate of the Attorney General's Office as of today, the Security Service has a mandate for two Ukrainian citizens: one is Mr. Hubarev and the other is Mr. Clinchaev. They are also, most important for us to get to court as soon as possible, and it is the court that decides their fate, I repeat, in an open and legitimate manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, very briefly let us give the Deputy Attorney General of Baganzo Alexi Vasilovich a few minutes to comment on the detention. And the active work of the Henprocurator for the protection of the rule of law in Ukraine and the fight against separatism.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u12	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Presidency, the Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! I report that on February 27th of this year, a Ukrainian security investigator was registered in the Single Register of Criminal Investigations following the signs of article 110 of the Second Criminal Code of Ukraine in part of the public appeals in Kharkiv on February 12th of this year to change the territorial boundaries and to violate the established order of the State of Ukraine. In the course of the first-line investigation, investigators of the BSB were sent to the court for the custody of Michael Dobkin and his delivery to the Shevchenkov District Court to consider the question of choosing a precautionary measure of keeping him in custody. On March 5, Michael Dobkin became a civil servant in the second category — criminal conduct — they are under investigation by the prosecutor’s authorities. This criminal conduct was determined by the investigation of the U.S. Attorney General's Office. On March 6th, this criminal conduct was registered in the Single Register of Judicial Investigations and accepted for its conduct to senior investigators with the particularly important cases of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Michael Markovich Dobkin was sent to the investigator about the suspicion of committing the crime, and two days later, Mikhail Markovich showed his desire to appear at the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine. And yesterday, by his move, that is, without any force, he arrived at the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. In view of the fact that it was not possible to bring it to the Shevchenkov district court yesterday, as the criminal investigation has changed, the body investigating this criminal conduct is located in the territory of the Pecher district. Therefore, only the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine could appeal to the Pechersky District Court. So yesterday he was detained as a suspect. The grounds for detention as a suspect were sufficient. Today, the investigator’s concern about choosing a precautionary measure at the Pecher District Court in Kiev will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u13	Thank you, Alexei Vasilovich. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions so that we can still hear each faction's position this Tuesday, which is traditionally what we do in our Parliament. Please sign up, and I'll announce it. Please turn on the "Race" system. I inform the Supreme Council that, in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with my personal statement, I am reporting the withdrawal of the faction of the Party of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Yegorov Aleksandra Mikolaiovich. According to the statement, this is the following announcement, and according to part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the entry of the Ukrainian national deputy Kartashov Eugène Grigorovovich into the foundation of the Party of the Regions' MPs, that is to say 1:1, yes. Dear colleagues, I ask the factions to speak to the people's deputies. From the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u14	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! Today, I want to start with the words I finished my previous speech in this rostrum. Again and again, turn to the European Parliament’s decision of February 27 of this year. I'm going to remind you again of the 12th paragraph of this decision. The European Parliament calls for temporary power to guarantee to all democratic political powers their democratic rights and freedoms and to prevent attacks against any of these forces. And another, 12th, emphasises the European Parliament that the people of Ukraine and only it has free and external intervention to make decisions on the geopolitical orientation of the country, as well as on Ukraine's accession to one or the other international treaties and communities. We have heard reports today that the European Union is ready to sign the treaty in the near future. But maybe in line with the European Parliament's decision, coming out of the interests of all parts of Ukraine, let's do it on May 25, during the presidential elections, let's hold a whole-Ukrainian referendum and let the people answer that question. And it would be perfectly logical that the new head of state, according to the outcome of the popular referendum, would make some decisions. Another point that I have already highlighted and repeated again, the 12th-C European Parliament condemns the attack and destruction of the main office of the Communist Party of Ukraine and attempts to ban the Communist Party of Ukraine and other parties. Above all, we are the new authorities who guarantee that the next presidential election will be free and democratic. Can they be provided under such conditions? The questions are said to be rhetorical. So unfortunately, today we have to say that we continue to retain the right to attract the attention of both the world public and the public of Ukraine to the problem that until the central committee in Kiev is released until the premises are released and the persecution is stopped, the faction of the Company will not take part in the vote. Although for the absolute majority of the issues that, for example, are being raised today for consideration by the Supreme Council, we would be willing to support them. On more than one occasion, we spoke about the need for law and order in the country. We'd like to really address the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the citizens, to immediately hand over the weapons they've acquired illegally, and in the near future, they'll be returned. We also urge that these agreements of creation be implemented, under the auspices of international organizations, commissions of inquiry, to respond accurately and adequately to those tragic events that took place on February 19-20 in the territory of our nation. In turn, I would like to draw attention to the social problems that we have discussed on several occasions, the issue of pension and medical reform, the question of inheritance-making, the issue related to the possibility of adopting the Penitentiary Act for delaying wages, pensions, scholarships and other social benefits. And another rather worrisome question that I'd like to talk about. Because we totally understand that, unfortunately, the requirements of the International Monetary Fund are going to go in order to get credit. It would be perfectly natural to make a decision to freeze, to impose a moratorium on prices and tariffs. Let us not forget that there are 22 articles of the Constitution. And article 22 of the Constitution does not give Parliament or the government the right to reduce the amount of social pay. Once again, this is a constitutional requirement, or change the Constitution. Because, unfortunately, it goes as well as in the famous saying, "that all power comes from the people, but unfortunately, it never returns to the people again."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u15	From the faction of the Party of the Regions is Nestor Ivanovich Sufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Indeed, today we see that the situation in Ukraine is not so simple. And we in this room have to do everything we can to ensure that unifying processes dominate the country. Sadly, though, we are witnessing events that do not unite society in any way, but they do cause disappointment and opposition. We should pay tribute to today's speakers, and I thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for insisting on the faction of the Party of the Regions on the question of the detention of Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, head of the Ukrainian Security Service. And unfortunately, we didn't see the Attorney General, they said he was sick. But there was a deputy Baganec, and it was emphasized that the Governor of Kharkiv County, a member of the Party of the Regions, did not hide, did not flee abroad, came to the Office of the Attorney General for testimony, convinced of his absolute innocence and would prove it. We certainly want to believe today that the investigation will be transparent and that the trial will be open and fair. But today we are concerned and have some reason to see the same political persecution in this regard. Please tell me how to explain the fact that, frankly, asking the individual leaders of the central authorities, our leadership in the Luhansk region, having an impact on the situation in the region, has contributed to the closure of the Lugansk District Administration. Our district councilman, a member of the Party of the Regions, has arrived at the head of the Internal Affairs Authority and in his office, I emphasize! – was detained by eight unknowns under the leadership of the National Deputy of Ukraine Laska. In the presence of the chief of police, he was cuffed, pulled from the premises of the district administration of internal affairs, beaten, and tortured. And after he turned to the authorities of internal affairs to investigate these circumstances, he was still being detained. Who are the judges and who are the heroes? You know, I don't share or share the views of the politicians who were on Maidan, but the courage and despair of the people who in this way have protected their idea can only cause respect. Those who are behind those people’s backs are the ones who are the products of the past government of Yanukovich, the ones who have been hired by the past to fight the opposition, the ones who have been paid the opportunity to drive through Ukraine have created the conditions of agitation for various radical purposes, and for this they have to wet opposition leaders and specifically Yatsenuk. [[Applause]] And now these people are making themselves the heroes of Maidan, these people who betrayed the ideas of Maidan and served Yanukovich from the very beginning, and are the products of Yanukovich. Therefore, we ask that we pay the utmost attention and not give in to provocation. Of course, we will insist that Clinchayev Arsen Stepanovich be released to investigate the situation of his torture and abuse and unlawful detention in the police is not known where. Today, we must be very careful about the question of Crimea. I'm talking to the criminals right now. We are careful to monitor what is happening in the Crimea and to make sure that the interests and rights of criminals are protected and that the Crimea is always part of Ukraine. Today we will be careful to ensure that the rights of our citizens in the south-east are not violated. And I am sure that we must find unity in this room because unity in this room is a guarantee of unity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u17	From the faction of Fatherschina, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u18	Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I think that's how we should address all of our citizens who live in all parts of Ukraine. You know, there are two things and two people who have united the people of Ukraine and brought us all together here in the hall, regardless of which political party or faction we belong to. When just a citizen in an international search for charges of the most serious crimes, namely: murder of people, theft of property in a particularly large way, - Mr. Janukovic claims that this session hall is a criminal and a Nazi, I think he's the one who made those statements. Another person is Mr. Putin himself, who has best united all Ukrainian citizens who understand that the external threat is what stands in the way of Ukraine's construction. And that is why the challenges facing our country today, which are before Parliament, I think, are urgent. First. Undoubtedly, we are very grateful for the international support shown by the governments, the international organizations of the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people, but this is not enough. The most crucial issue is our actions with you, which must unite citizens wherever they live and wherever they live, to make them feel like citizens of one country. First. This is no doubt the list of measures that we must take immediately with regard to reforming the fiscal sphere, the tax area, so that no matter where we live, no matter where our citizens live, we all feel that we are citizens of one state. Secondly, we must address those honest deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, dozens of deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea who have shown courage in these conditions and have not succumbed to pressure or blackmail or direct threats and who have refused to vote in favour of those illegal, anti-constitutional decisions. I think the moment has come when the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the political parties and the groups represented in Parliament should meet immediately with these deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, with representatives of the communities of Crimean Tatars, Russians, Ukrainians, other communities of Crimea in order to find an immediate exit and stop the mess and the atrocities that are taking place today in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. No doubt, and this decision is our parliament's failure to recognize the so-called referendum, which is being tried under automatic cannons, already with the printed results of this referendum, without any choice of Ukrainian citizens who live in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In my opinion, what we have done today is an open, frank conversation where the leaders of the state, the leaders of the defence department have reported on the situation that Ukraine is in today, I think it's a waste of confirmation of what heroism is done by all those who are now serving in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. What every soldier is doing today, every officer, is actually protecting the country's sovereignty in terms of military occupation, in terms of direct pressure, and I think there's a crucial moment to this day. If the Russian Federation does not recognize that there are other formations of the Russian Federation in the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which means that there are terrorists in the territory of the Republic of Crimea who are terrorizing the 2.5 million people of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea with weapons in their hands. And appropriate measures must be taken to neutralize these terrorist gangs. And I think that today's decision by Parliament to apply to the guaranteeing countries should be properly edited for such things. Thus, our day - to - day routine is designed just as it is for decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u19	From the faction of the strike party. Vitaly Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! The fact is that Ukraine today has become an object of foreign intervention. The Russian leadership, which makes this impression, lost its sense of reality in geopolitical games. In Crimea, people are attacked, soldiers are kidnapped, journalists are beaten. Several people, including journalists, were stolen and disappeared without news. To save these people is a matter for all of us. We see this scenario that unfolded in its own time against protestors here in Kiev, only now are they being driven from abroad by provokers and a foreign army. Aggressive gastrolers try to provoke violence in the eastern areas. I just got back from Donetsk, I was in Kharkiv. Citizens there support the unity of Ukraine. Tens of thousands of people in Kharkiv and Donetsk go to a demonstration, to a rally to support unity against aggression. People say at meetings that they want protection and security, they want to live in peace and quiet. But the intrepid groups, the so - called political gastrolers, continue to dwell on Ukrainian soil in disorder and chaos. That's what we have in common: put an end to it. Now is the time for each of us. I turn to my friends, to my brothers. I also want to address the criminals. We have talked a lot about unity and stability. It is time to reunite our efforts and help to bring the police in order. I would also like to refer separately to criminals who are suddenly deceived by a gang of adventurers who rely on a foreign army. The Crimea is governed by the Constitution of Autonomy, which guarantees the highest level of official status of the Russian language. This Constitution, as well as Ukraine's laws, guarantees the Crimea with broad autonomous rights, particularly in the social, economic spheres. You will not feel the effects of these rights because they have always been abused by the ruling top. And our job is to change the rules of the game in the country. To make every Ukrainian feel aware of changes in their status, income changes, social change. This requires the means that the previous power has been eroded. Therefore, there is now a need for real legislative reform. When citizens get control of power and make the budget work for the people. We must work together for this reform. And the so-called referendum is the surrender of the Crimea to control the adventurers of all imaginations. What happens to Crimea if their plans come true? Let's look at history. Let's look at Abkhazia. A colorful ending turned into a disaster zone. I want to ask the Crimean who's been living since the resort season, who's going to go to the war zone today? What will happen to the resort season, and who will be responsible? Dear colleagues, especially from the Party of Regions. Those of you who have authority in the East, the South and the Crimea, your sacred duty now is to clearly explain to people what is going on, to give a clear assessment to those actors, especially your fellow parties, who have called or called for beating and killing. That's where the defendants are. You need to explain to people how important it is to separate the seeds from the sexes, how you need to protect your rights, but not give up or speculate on them, and not allow them to speculate on these subjects to the apherists and provokers. I'll say something else. It is time for people to experience the real results.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u21	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u22	It is time for people to experience the results of the implementation of the government’s plan to resolve the conflict. The blockade of the borders should ensure that the enemy elements do not penetrate Ukraine anymore, and those who have already arrived must be stopped. The gastrolers and gastropods of political tourists must be stopped. I also wanted to say, we have to do everything we can to ensure that the special unit of the Berkut militia, which was disbanded, with its involvement was formed a new unit, but of those people who didn't take part in torture and murder, those former Special Forces who didn't spit themselves out should be and serve further, continue their service to the benefit of the country. To date, Ukrainian - speaking channels have been cut short in Crimea. Obviously, the time has come for adequate measures to protect Ukrainian information space from programs that create hostility on the part of Russia. And I'm sure that in 1994, when the Budapest Treaty was signed, when countries guaranteed independence, Ukraine's integrity, they had to keep their word. And I am confident that the Prime Minister will now address them in the negotiations so that the word will be kept. One more thing, very short. We do. Note that when we review the budget, we need to increase the articles on keeping officers, soldiers, militias at the expense of maintaining authorities and other excessive articles. And we must also have no sense of being abandoned in Crimea by the representatives of our army. We need to support them not only morally, we need to support and enable them to feel protected and to support them in any way. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u23	Please, from the "North European Ukraine" faction, Oles Donius.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u24	Good ladies and gentlemen! With specific suggestions, they will not apply to the military. Because it's obvious that there's an absolute match between the military and the military. But our proposals will apply to the work of the legislative body, the executive branch and the PNB. Because in our view, for a week, the time was lost, there was inactivity. And so it seems that idleness can continue. We need to delegate on March 16 this pseudo referendum. So it's very specific. First. The parliamentary group The Sovereign European Ukraine urges all residents of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to boycott the illegal pseudo referendum on March 16, this year. The other one. The MPs refer to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all the political parties of Ukraine, public organizations, as well as to the deputies of the Supreme Council elected in the majority districts of the Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, to make a similar statement and to urge the residents of the ARC to boycott the pseudo referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 12 deputies elected from major districts. Where are your personal claims? At this point, such statements were made only by Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people and the Federation of Employers. From each and every one of you right now, we need a statement about the boycott of this referendum. Anyone who has failed to point out his clear position on the boycott of this pseudo referendum is de facto helping the aggressor and contributing to a violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. Third. We believe that there must be a headquarters for coordinating actions to overcome the Crimea crisis at the OR or at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Friends, I came from Sevastopol and Simferopol. The impressions of the patriotic criminals that Crimea was betrayed or sold. There is no sense of executive power from Kiev to Crimea. It needs to be restored. To do this, the headquarters in Kiev must first be created. Four. In order to protect the information space, we call for all Russian Federation news channels to be unlocked in Ukraine until all Russian troops are transferred to their permanent locations. Everyone knows they turned off Ukrainian TV channels in Simferopol and Sevastopol. Where are adequate actions by Ukraine? They're gone. Fifth. For the purpose of bringing true information to the people of Crimea and in terms of aggressive capture of the information space of the Russian media, we consider it necessary to produce a mass production of printed products aimed at clarifying violent aggression in Ukraine. The responsible PNB, excuse me, why aren't the cards and newspapers developed and made in a week? What's going on? From that point on, it's full of mass advertising. Why can’t they make Ukrainian printed products in a few days? Can I help you? I can help you make newspapers or cards in two days. There are public organizations that will spread them to the Crimea. Next, sixth. With a view to preventing the mass influx of provocations, including armed men coming from the Russian border, until the Russian forces return to their locations, we consider it necessary to close the possibility of a foot and a car crossing of the Ukrainian-Russian border to Russian male citizens aged 18-55. Except for the individual cate orgy of citizens. In particular: truck drivers with letters of departure, doctors with decommissioning, and so on. Not testing, checking on one CAT, and moving on to another, and in such situations when there is military aggression, it is necessary to completely prohibit the crossing of the border between 18 and 55 years of age. There will be only a few pedestrians and highways, and we will have to do so both on the railway and on the air. Seven. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is to dissolve the Supreme Council of Crimea as a body that has gone beyond its constitutional powers and that has called for a violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Local councils should also be disbanded to support the illegal decision of the Supreme Council of Crimea regarding the pseudo referendum on March 16. The Prime Minister here told us that power was illegal. Wait, so where's the decision that she's illegal? Why is the still illegal Supreme Council of Crimea printing decisions? We need to dissolve it. This is what patriotic criminals expect. Eight. With regard to violators of Ukrainian separatist legislation, a special operation should be carried out with a view to detaining them. Why are they being held in Donetsk and nothing is being done in Crimea? Nine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should set up a parliamentary commission to deal with the Crimean crisis. Who among us is responsible? I know by the names of the deputies who, at their fear and risk, even though they were not asked to leave here, were in Crimea. A legitimate body is needed. Next. A block for the Crimean Tatar people. The Supreme Council must recognize the limits of the Crimean Tatar people as a representative of the Crimean Tatar people. Eleven. Twelve. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should join the United Nations Declaration on Indigenous Peoples and adopt the Law on the Fundamentals of National Politics, recognize the legal status of the Crimean Tatar people as the indigenous people. Thirteen. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should adopt the Law on the Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, the Law of Mustafa Jemilov. Next. Fourteen. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council or of Kabmin should immediately initiate a meeting with the heads of the city, village, and rural ARC councils in order to prevent the pseudo.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u26	We've got about ten more points. Dear friends, there are still a few days before the executive could try to break the situation. We should not ask everyone, another, we should ask ourselves, but what did we do to make the Crimea Ukrainian? And it's not a criticism, we're all in the same boat, we all have to help the authorities and the people now to make the Crimea Ukrainian, so let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u27	Thank you, National Deputy Donya. I want to say that there's a lot of interesting suggestions that can be taken into account. What about operational headquarters? It's created and it's working. What is involved in the effective work of Ukrainian authorities in Crimea? I inform the honourable MP that unfortunately, the territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is occupied by the armed forces of another country and this creates problems, of course, for the work of the Ukrainian authorities. Please, from "Economic Development" Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u28	Respectable national MPs, respected fellow countrymen, are clearly being subjected to dirty and cynical aggression against the state of Ukraine. The "Economic Development" MP in a situation where threats to our nation directly affect the statehood and territorial integrity of Ukraine calls on Parliament, and all the social political forces of Ukraine to consolidate efforts and hard consolidated systemic actions to prevent the territorial integrity of our nation. Ukraine is a peaceful state. The Ukrainians have repeatedly proved themselves to be a talented, hardworking and tolerant people around the world. And in all the 22 previous years of independence of Ukraine, there was no serious inter-ethnic and inter-religious conflict in our territory. We are absolutely confident that today, more than ever, we need to do everything possible to ensure that Ukraine's clear position is adequately supported by the international community. I want to remind again, and this should remind the whole world that in 1994, Ukraine, which then had the third nuclear power of the planet, voluntarily gave up strategic, tactical nuclear weapons. I am absolutely confident that in this room today, regardless of the political colour, Parliament's preferences should be constitutionally supported by the constitutional majority in the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the guaranteeing states, including the Russian Federation, the World Society on clear opposition to the threat to Ukraine's territorial integrity. And this will be the moment of truth for all politicians who need to confirm their ability to place national, national, and higher interests than the current personal or political situation. It is of the most practical importance to act adequately and professionally in the context of the first-ever information war on the part of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. It is necessary to combat this conscription of Ukrainian citizens, especially criminals. We are absolutely confident that today we need to do everything we can to support the moral and psychological forces of Ukraine that are blocked in the Crimea. And not only morally, but also resources, finance, clearly target efforts at the state level to protect and support their families. They should feel that by protecting their country, Ukraine, they are confidently supported by all components of both the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian society. It has the most plausible meaning, and we also ask that we not only pay attention to it, but also act to ensure that the newly created Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in strict terms, has clearly defined the priorities of its activities, including the anti-crisis component, the first-line legislative package, especially on state procurement, with an unprecedented scale of corruption in the public procurement system. It's very important to put order in income taxation. I am confident that the Government should immediately submit a bill on the cancellation of advance payments on profits, which exhausts the negotiable costs of our enterprises, to clearly formulate its position at the added value tax in the context of the return of the negative balance, again referring to the viability of the Ukrainian economy and our enterprises. It is very important not only to negotiate with the International Monetary Fund, we need this cooperation, of course, but in conditions that clearly take into account the real capacity of Ukrainian citizens. And it is clearly necessary to accelerate the creation of a targeted social protection system for our citizens. All these questions require immediate action. No problem, political, socio-economic, can be solved only by Parliament alone, only by the government. We must, in the face of the risks facing our nation, unite our will, our mind, our resources, and do everything we can to keep Ukraine intact and have a chance to develop as modern, democratic, competitive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u29	Thank you. From the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union, Oleg Jaroslavovich Tagnibok, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u30	Glory to Ukraine! Respectable Society! On one occasion, I am not surprised to hear from the representatives of the Party of the Regions that political persecution has allegedly begun in relation to them. I understand very well that this was a tactic before, and we remember the first coming of the Party of Regions, then the second. And that's why now all the patriotic forces, the statesmen, have to realize that in no case can they allow a resurgence of dictatorship, a return of this political power to power. And now they are the ones who have not yet been responsible for the blood of hundreds of Ukrainians, for the blood of the people they have released. They are now allowed to talk about political persecution, but it is a disgrace. I would like to appeal to you, representatives of the Party of the Regions, but please tell me, we are here to talk about the need to dissolve the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, because it has completely violated all the laws of Ukraine, it is not in the constitutional field of Ukraine. By the way, this should be clearly done and therefore the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court should be immediately brought here to Parliament and this issue must be resolved. Because without the judges of the Constitutional Court, we can't do this procedure, and the Supreme Council of Crimea has to be disbanded by 16 more, because they seem to want to confirm the results of that so-called pseudo-referendum. So, representatives of the Party of the Regions, I want to remind you that 82 of the 99 members who voted in the Supreme Council of Crimea are members of your political power. I didn't hear or see your political evaluation of those separatists. You must either renounce them, or you must expel them without political power, or you must support them. That's exactly what I'm trying to tell the Communists. Stop that your representatives in Eastern Ukraine were involved in separatist actions and rallies because they would have to be held accountable sooner or later. So in this context, the respectable society, we -- the Ukrainian Parliament -- definitely have to do a venerable procedure -- protect the national information space, here the same members of the Party of the Regions begin to appeal to the criminals, "Criminals, we are addressing you!".. But the people of Crimea can't hear you because they've shut down Ukrainian channels a long time ago and they don't broadcast a session of the Ukrainian Parliament. Instead, adequate actions by the Ukrainian side have not yet been taken. How many times have the Freedom factions proposed 4200: temporary suspension of broadcasts, broadcasts of certain radio programmes! This needs to be approved immediately. That is why we discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council and agreed. We need to bring together the National Council for Television and Radio Communication, and as soon as possible, this body of the State has to address the issue of protecting Ukrainian national space. Moreover, the management of UT-1 must be released immediately. So, if you'll excuse me, imagine the situation: On September 11th, when there was a terrorist act in the United States, you can imagine Ben Laden performing skyping on the central American channels and saying, how and what, criticizing the American authorities for their actions and explaining his position?Oh, my God! How was it possible for Axion, a separatist, to teach Ukrainians through a central television channel?Oh, my God! We need to release UT-1 immediately! I understand that the discharge procedure is difficult. There should be a period of time, but these are personnel decisions that need to be made urgently. What Russia is waging against Ukraine has long been an information war, we have warned. I'll give you the evidence: there are no green men there in Crimea, and these are the representatives of the 76th Air Force Division (Pskow), they are the representatives of 98 Airborne Division (Ivanovo, Kostruma), they are the representatives of 106 Airborne Division (Tula), they are the representatives of 45 Special Intelligence Regiments of the VDW (cabinka), they are the representatives of the 3rd Special Brigade of GRU (Samara), they are the representatives of 31 separate brigades of DSB (Ulianivsk), they are the representatives of 650 individual Marine Brigades, which make up the East Battalion. Society, you don't have to lie! And if we live in a situation of information war, we have to stop the enemy's aggression and protect our national space. We strongly support today's call to the guaranteeing countries to control Ukraine's airspace and maritime space. And what we're saying is, in our time, we got rid of nuclear weapons. We have made concessions in due course, and if now the U.S. and UK guarantors will not help Ukraine, we must leave behind the right to have weapons that can protect us. [[Applause]] And one more thing, company. Please. Let me get this straight, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u32	I am very much asking you to look with understanding at the legislative initiatives that Freedom is proposing today in economic terms, in political terms and in terms of protection. It's about the economic plan. I'm very much asking the profile committee to consider our draft laws on the return of capital from offshore, as well as the bill on the elimination of private monopolies, and to move and vote in the hall. I want to inform you that the Freedom MPs have prepared a bill today, and this week we need to vote on civilian weapons and ammunition. Turtles and bandits are still able to obtain weapons, and the peaceful population is not able to do so. We need to discuss this issue, and this law must be clearly voted on. And to the end. Today, the Minister of Defense spoke. The Ministry of Defense opened an account. We turn to all men of goodwill, to rich people. Now we need to support the Ministry of Defense. The army is destroyed, the army is stolen -- we must punish those who did this, and today we have our army to support, and then we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u33	Dear national deputies, the name of the national deputy Lazko was called. One minute on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Colleagues from the Party of the Regions shed crocodile tears, telling of political repressions against their party members, particularly Arsen Klinchayev, the famous Lugani bandit, National Deputy Alexander Efraemov of Ukraine. Arsen Klinchayev is organizing separatist rallys in Luhansk for money from Ephraim. On March 9, 200 years after Shevchenk's birthday, the Russian flag was raised by the Lugansk Administration. Lugansk is my homeland, my mother was born there, I grew up there. And I will not give life to any separatist in Luhansk or in Donetsk! Each Ukrainian patriot should assist law enforcement agencies in detaining separatists, arresting traitors, arresting foreign intelligence agents, surrendering to law enforcement agencies, and bringing them to court. I respect your right to have another political position. But you are my personal enemy, if you seek independence, sovereignty and the territorial integrity of Ukraine! Feel it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! I beg you, the name of the national deputy of Ephraim has been named. Please, 1 minute for a lineup. Guys, please don't call the last name again so we don't have a duel replica. We don't have time for this. Please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u36	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I am officially stating that everything I have made out of the rostrum is a lie, in my view, not a very healthy person. And if he is himself throughout his life, it is confirmed in the media, in the media that is also published on the Internet, that he was someone's agent, and today that the speaker from this rostrum has also announced him, then if he yells at others, that responsibility will not be removed from him. Once again, all statements, literally every word that has been said, are a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! I'm asking the deputies to sit in their seats. We need to make decisions. And now, dear colleagues, I inform you that on March 10, 2014, the Central Electoral Commission recognized the elected and registered Ukrainian National Deputies elected on October 28, 2012 in the state-wide election district of Furman Alexi Yuriovich, a member of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union", included in the election list of the political party "Freedom" number 26. Bondarczuk Oleg Volodymyrovich, a member of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, is included in the election list of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union under number 27. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Furman Aleksei Yuriovich, is invited. Please. I ask, for a moment, our staff of the Secretariat to contact the deputies who are in the towers to come to the decision-making room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u38	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Furman Alexi. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u39	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondarczuk Oleg Volodymyrovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u40	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u41	Dear fellow Members, let us welcome the national deputies who have begun their duties. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for us to vote with you on the very important statements made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And then we can take a break under the Rules. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Dear colleagues, your attention is drawn to the Supreme Council's decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the suspension of the decision of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime of 6 March 2014 to hold a general referendum on 16 March 2014. I declare the content of this decree. "According to that.".. You have a determination. Dear colleagues, don't you need to announce it? None. Can we vote on it? Vladimir Mikhailovich, are there any suggestions and additions to this decision? I'll tell you. Please, from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to add a fifth paragraph to the draft decree. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on residents of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea not to take part in an illegal referendum and thus demonstrate its position towards the unity of the Ukrainian people and the territorial integrity of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u43	There is no objection to the inclusion of these items? None. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to include a draft decree on the statement that I have now announced in the agenda of our sitting. Please activate the "Council" system and identify yourself with the national MPs. Please vote. [[12:06:56]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, can we put the text of the ruling to a vote? Dear colleagues, I ask you again, I address the Secretariat, I address the national MPs who are in the towers, please come to the session room, we make very responsible decisions. Please take your seats, national deputies, and be determined by voting. Please take the decision as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u44	With the supplement that was announced. Please. [[12:07:42]] For 255 Decision taken. By factions, please turn on. The Party of Regions is 26, "Paternity" is 65, "Klicka" is 34, "Sovereign European Ukraine" is 32, "Economic Development" is 26, "Freedom" is 29, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 43. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, urgent information for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u45	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Our country, after a tense event, has entered a direct democracy. Now under the Supreme Council, our activists gathered and asked the deputies to make their wishes and demands known. With your permission, I'm going to read a little bit so that we can all understand the moods of society, the moods of those people who really overturned the dictatorship. Secretary of PNBO Paris, c.o. President Turchinov, Head of the Turkish Supreme Council. Appoint early election of Supreme and Local Council members for the fall of 2014. To amend the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, namely, to provide for a simplified system of appeals to the MP, to abolish parliamentary integrity, to introduce a proportional system, and to provide for the opportunity to participate in the electoral process of all Ukrainian public organizations. The adoption of laws on illustration and impeachment to presidential elections. implement the Law on Local Self-Government in the area of the right of administration to the community of movable and immovable property of local communities. Adopt the Law on the Establishment of a National Self-Defense Guard based on hundreds of self-defense and activists in Kiev. Ratify the Rome Statute in its entirety. Investigate and punish all those involved in human rights violations from 30.11 to 22.02. In 2014 An embodiment in Ukraine of the European Charter on Local Self - Government The merger of the mayor and head of the KMDA in Kiev before the May 25th election. All jobs in Kabmin must be accepted by the public. The Kabin should develop a development programme and present it to Majdan and the public. Dear friends, these are the moods of our society. There's a lot of things we're already doing with you on the legislative level. I think that in our work we should listen to the wishes of society. And together with society to build an independent Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'll comment again. It was the request of the people who gathered in Parliament to be announced from the rostrum, as was done by the Pashinski People’s Deputy. I'm assigning the committees to consider these proposals and make them as draft legislative acts. I can see it in the eyes of the deputies so much that most of these requirements are fully supported by the deputies. Thank you. And so, dear colleagues, a very responsible and serious decision. It refers to the Supreme Council's decree to refer our Parliament to the security states. I ask, my fellow Members, to give me the opportunity to announce this address, it is brief but very meaningful and responsible. Please, colleagues, sit in your seats and first include the Supreme Council's draft decree to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the security states. Please enter into the agenda. The number of this Decree 4390. Please vote. [[12:11:32]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the content of the Decision is as follows. "Approving the appeal of the Supreme Council to the security states of Ukraine, is added. I'm going to announce this address. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to correct the text of the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of the Ukrainian security states. This Order takes effect from the moment it is adopted. " On your orders, I hereby declare the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the security states of Ukraine. "In recent times, the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea continues to deteriorate sharply as a result of the introduction of the Russian Federation Armed Forces. In view of the security assurances set out in the Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding, the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding and international organisations calling for practical measures to ensure Ukraine's territorial integrity and security. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States as participating countries in the Memorandum of Security in connection with Ukraine's accession to a non-proliferation treaty with a request to fulfil its obligations, in accordance with its provisions, and to apply all possible diplomatic, political, economic and military measures to put an immediate end to aggression and to preserve independence, sovereignty, and the existing borders of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the Russian Federation, according to the Memorandum of Understanding on Security Safeguards in connection with Ukraine’s accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, requiring the immediate withdrawal of troops from Ukraine and the cessation of aggression against the Ukrainian State and the guarantee of its territorial integrity and independence. Dear colleagues, may I put to the vote a draft ruling? I can. Please activate the "Council" system and determine the MPs by voting. Please vote. Order 4390. Please. On the basis and in general. [[12:14:10]] For 263 Decision taken. Please show by factions, in favour of the Party of Regions – 23 National Deputies, Fatherhood – 68, Vitalia Klicka – 36, Sovereign European Ukraine – 31, Economic Development – 32, All-Ukrainian Freedom – 29, Ukraine – 0, non-fractional – 44. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. The Supreme Council continues its work at 12 45 minutes. 5
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u47	Members of the Secretariat, please invite all members of the National Parliament to the session room, where we will continue to work with you. I'm talking to my colleagues. Please take your seats, the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues its work. Announcement. National Deputy Bondarczuk and National Deputy Furman inform of their accession to the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, once again I ask the employees of the Apparatus to assist the people's deputies who are engaged in important, perhaps matters, to remind them that there are more important issues that are involved in the performance of their duties: working in Parliament and voting. Dear colleagues, regarding the order of our day work. We should now consider a draft decision repealing the decisions of the Supreme Council of 23 February 2014 on the adoption as a basis and as a whole of the draft decision of the Supreme Council to amend the Order on the Election of Judges. This is Project 4195. But there's a request from the profile committee that we now withdraw this project from your consideration. And we'd look at it after we looked at it on the profile committee. Because they offer to consider several other projects with them. No objection, dear colleagues? I won't. We're taking this draft decision off the table today. The next question is, Your Honor, 4664. 2664, I apologize, is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads. Project of the People's Deputy of Knazević. Please, do we have Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch? My colleagues, I'm a little surprised by the organization of our work. I am addressing the leaders of the factions, the people's deputies, please ensure the presence of the Ukrainian people's deputies. I announce a five - minute break so that faction leaders can gather all the deputies in the session room. Please. Five minutes off. Please assemble the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u48	People's deputy Knjazevich is preparing for his speech. It is reported that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea deputies continue their illegal, anticonstitutional actions. You know that today the Supreme Council has accepted a statement regarding the illegal activity of the Crimea Parliament. They are given a period of time so that they can cancel all their illegal decisions. As far as the dissolution of Parliament is concerned, this is also referred to in the statement. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Crimea Parliament can only be dissolved after the Constitutional Court has reached its conclusion. The relevant documents concerning the illegal anticonstitutional activities of the Crimea Parliament have been made available to the Constitutional Court, and they have begun the process. I hope they don't push the issue, we'll go back to the Constitutional Court. And today or tomorrow, decisions will be taken on this issue so that this week the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to determine the illegal activity of Crimea and the dissolution of this illegal parliament. Please, Your Honor, we're starting work on the draft Law on Amendments to Electoral Law, the project, and I'll remind you, 2664. There's a suggestion that we save time, because there are a lot of important issues that we need to take up so that we can look at the accelerated procedure. Please support this initiative. Please turn on the "Race" system. May I have the vote, people's deputies in favour? [[12:52:56]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, I ask the National Deputy Prince Ruslan Petrovich to report this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by Bill (No. 2664) amending the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, deputies of rural, rural, city councils and village, village, city heads. I don't think there's any MP in this room who doesn't understand the urgency of introducing this bill and making a decision today. It's about the fact that we still have the Local Elections Act, which was adopted before the 2010 elections, followed by the 2010 elections, followed by the 2010 elections, which are still held in turn, intermediate, re-elections, the first local self-government elections. And given that on 25 May, Parliament's decision is to hold a series of elections to local self-government bodies from the remotest villages to Kiev, and deputies of the city council and the Kiev City Head, it is a proposal to finally return to the law that, as with me, is a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament to be immediately corrected and brought into line with the Constitution and other electoral laws that we have adopted, including the Law on Elections of National Deputies. What are we talking about? The point is that the law that was passed before the 2010 elections contains a series of shameful things that have been thoroughly criticized by the international community as a result of the 2010 elections. Now, your honorary colleagues, Daddy, these are just the conclusions of international institutions that have not left stone on this law. And unfortunately, it's been four years since then, and the car is there now. The law also contains things that brutally violate the concept of will in local elections. In particular, it is a matter of refusing to register to members for a completely subjective decision of the electoral commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u50	Allow me to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u51	I'm done. The same is true of the rule that provided for the possibility of completely voluntary cancellation of the registration of candidates by two warnings. Similarly, it is clear that the decision of the electoral commission is made by a majority of those present, not by the composition. When we had cases where three people were gathered and two made decisions, respectively, it was considered a decision by the election committee. The most important thing, in addition to what I have mentioned above, is to make changes to the law – the need to link the holding of presidential and local elections at the same time. So we can run two election campaigns at the same time. If we don't do this right now, we have to build two vertical election committees, different polling stations, it's a shock to the presidential election campaign. To avoid that, we have the opportunity to make changes to this law at the same time and to resolve the financial issue, resulting in a substantial reduction in the cost of the President's election. Dear colleagues, I propose that this law be adopted today on the basis of which, Mr. Head, I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. We made proposals for the second reading and no later than the sessional week, for the next sessional week, we could accept it in general before the start of the electoral campaign, which starts in early April. We have a week left, and I would like to ask all the deputies to actively make their amendments so that we don't delay this process, but today we will vote on this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the People's Deputies, please turn on the "Council" system. Now we're going to sign up and give a word to the committee. David Vajayevich Zwania of the Committee is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u53	The President-in-Office, colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on 26 February 2014, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads on the technical and legal improvement of the electoral process under registration number 2664. Presented by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ruslan Knazević. Taking into account the conclusion of the Committee on Legal Policy, which notes that the bill does not conflict with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appropriateness of adopting the law on the basis of its first reading, taking into account the comments and proposals expressed by the Administration. In view of the fact that the electoral process for Ukraine’s presidential election on May 25, 2014, the election of individual city heads was also scheduled for that date. The committee unanimously decided that, when the bill was finalized for second reading, it would be supplemented by provisions allowing for the organization of the vote, the voter vote in the presidential and local elections in the joint constituencies by the regional electoral committees established in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, as this would lead to a significant cost savings in the first instance of the State budget, the allocation of funds to the organization and the conduct of electoral processes. Thus, taking into account the decision made during the discussion of the bill at the meeting of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Law as a result of the first reading to be adopted as a basis, reducing by half the time the subjects submitted the right of legislative initiative and amendments to it for consideration in the second reading, taking into account that the electoral process of the early local elections is due to begin on April 4, 2014. The committee is asking, Your Honor, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u54	Do you want to finish the speech, please, David Vajajevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u55	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u56	Done? David Vazievich can sit in his seat. I don't think there's any need for questions. Who's speaking from the Fatherland faction? Dear colleagues! Are the Communist Party desirable? Black woman wants to get out of town, I understand. Please turn on the microphone, National MP Blackwill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u57	Alexander Valentine's Day, on the one hand, we're time economics, it's very good. On the other hand, I did have a question for the committee. Because in general, stressing that it's a very nice law, very nice adjustments, everything's fine. However, I was curious, exactly the same law was, well almost the same, there was a Blackwolf, Ilika, Odarchenko and Kurpil on the same subject, something he wasn't considering. Although, honestly, I will not insist, we will consider that we will make our amendments. Yet again, I would like to say that one problem that we have for the great city of Kiev is the problem of counting votes. If you take all the constituencies to the city bulletin, you and I will be counting for five days. It's not possible and it's not possible. And, so that's the problem, I'd like to listen to it on this subject, either in the closing word or in the way. Because earlier this was decided by holding elections to the district councils that I am still insisting on. Tell me how to do this if you don't run a circuit board election in 10 areas. Previously, the ballot papers were taken from the polls to the district election boards, and from there to the city, and in the daytime they could be counted. How is this going to be a question? But in general, it needs to be voted on as a basis, worked out, and it will be a fine law. It should, in fact, be brought to about the appearance of the Law on Elections to the Supreme Council. And it's going to be a normal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u58	Thank you. From the Communist Party, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u59	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Poltavščina Elections are the foundation of democracy. The elections are to take place on the basis of electoral legislation, which is to be based on the functioning Constitution of Ukraine, and we are united in this. And I don't think there's anyone here who can express another point of view. At a meeting of the Communist Party of Ukraine, we examined the bill in detail. By the way, it's Blackwolf and the rest of the right that there is a whole layer of electoral legislation, proposals for the electoral law submitted by other people's deputies. We believe that most of the amendments proposed by the author need to be supported. It's not some kind of money in electoral legislation, but we're actually going back to the norms that have existed in the legislation of the past few years. To this law, we will make sure that we make adjustments and insist. But once again I draw everyone's attention to the decision of the European Parliament of 27 February this year, which pointed to certain procedures and the very violation of norms and freedoms in Ukraine, both citizens and political parties. I note that, until now, the premises of the central office of the Communist Party of Ukraine and in a number of areas and areas have been illegally seized and maintained. So you're artificially pushing us out today so that we don't vote for the majority. For those bills that are being considered. We stand in the positions of national sovereignty, the territorial integrity of Ukraine, but please follow the standards of the Constitution of Ukraine in the same part, especially where we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u60	Please, National Deputy Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u61	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, group of Economic Development. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these positions that we're going to take as a basis today are echoed by some of the proposals made by citizens who here, from the rostrum, have been sounded, especially in terms of changing the procedure for the formation of territorial election committees. The rationale is the permanent suspension of the powers of the election board members, and the author also proposes to change the way in which they are directed. I think those who are in the election know well that this is the situation that has caused constant confusion and the grounds for bringing complaints to the courts about decisions made as a result of the elections. And there was another MP standing in front of me. You've probably heard that the author himself is proposing to adopt this bill only on a basis, because, in fact, he has a lot of comments, suggestions. But I also support the suggestion made by author Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch that we should make a protocol decision and entrust the committee with a reduced procedure to prepare it for second reading, because we have a large scale of work ahead of us, which is related to elections to local self-government authorities. Thank you. I suggest you take the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Leonov, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u63	Please give the floor to Deputy Kaydi Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u64	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u65	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I probably won't open the news that when the new authorities come, they're trying to adjust the electoral legislation, first of all. And I'm very pleased that we're now walking away from these principles. And we're trying to get back to our electorate first. And our faction will definitely support this bill in the first reading, we will make proposals. Because I think it's actually going to be the first step towards unifying and codifying electoral legislation. I'm sure that we're going to form a group, maybe we're going to assign this to a profile committee, or maybe we're going to create a temporary commission to codify electoral legislation to make it impossible to continue to fake it, to make it impossible to subvert the election results, so that our voters can be sure that, as they voted, that would be the result. And it wouldn't be like that when 12 percent of the votes are cast for Freedom, the Central Election Commission announces 10 percent of the votes. This shameful practice needs to be tackled and we are actually taking these first steps towards the return of the Ukrainians. The trust of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u66	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik is asking the faction for a hit. Victor Pinzenik, you have asked for the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, the strike party faction supports the bill as a whole, its adoption in the first reading, and we understand what it takes to hold the local elections by May 25. Nevertheless, we want to say that there are two positions that must be taken into account when preparing for the second reading of this bill. First of all, it's a two-round selection of city heads. This position will bring together the community of Ukrainian cities and resolve the question: When the city head is elected by the majority of citizens rather than by the 2010 elections, when in fact some mayors of cities were elected by 10 percent of voters. Another issue is the formation of territorial election committees. Everyone knows that the local elections were actually planned for falsification. She was well - prepared because of the formation of territorial election committees. Therefore, we feel it is necessary to make appropriate changes to the law to the second reading, which takes into account the need to transform the territorial election committees. With these amendments, the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u68	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u69	With these amendments, the faction of the political party "BACK" will support this law in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u70	Thank you. Zarubinsky National MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that these appeals for the ideal Electoral Law are naive and completely unserious. There's no place in any country with a law that says absolutely everything by a hundred percent. Obviously, the question is not that everything is written down, but that it is not to seek a collusion with the object of the electoral process itself. So let us not be naive. As far as this bill is concerned. I only have one comment for him, Mr. Ruslan. You're saying that it relates to the technical and legal improvement of the electoral process, and in fact here, apart from technical and legal improvements, there are a lot of important, meaningful things. So let's call the bill itself what it really is. This isn't a technical legal argument. Four things that need to be fully supported, and we will support them, either in the first reading. First, the status of the subjects of the electoral process is granted to official observers. It's absolutely right, it's a completely different position, it's a different degree and a level of legitimacy. Second moment, right. Raised requirement to.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u73	Thank you. The requirement for quorum has been raised at meetings of the territorial and regional election committees. You know how many problems there are because these requirements have been scaled up enough. Third position. An improved, really improved voting mechanism and procedure outside the constituency, and you also know how many questions there were. And most successful, I think. Good law-making money is an increased overall time frame for the prosecution of decisions from 2 to 5 days. Indeed, many who have been violated in their rights have not been able to make a request in two days. That's why we should vote in favour of this bill, it's meaningful, not technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u74	Please allow the closing word to be made available to the author of the law. Turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u75	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, indeed, there is no limit to improvement. For his part, This is about the fact that the technical legalization of this law was supposed to exist that there were no political aspects. But I agree with you that a real name could be discussed here. On the subject of things that Alexander Blackwolf has sharpened, if possible. He doesn't hear, does he? Mr. Alexander Blackwill, I'm addressing you. We're going to solve the election in Kiev. Indeed, there is a great problem because, according to the law, district commissions are formed only in cities where there are district councils. But I'm solving this by amending the law, and I'm predicting the formation of district commissions in cities where there's a district division, not district councils. So we automatically form these committees, including in Kiev. Dear colleagues! And the question that my colleagues asked me today is whether we grant the right to be a registered candidate for the post of city head if you're non-secretary. And that's the question, because it's a norm that exists, a terrible norm, with the intention of driving all the mayors and all the candidates to the mayor of one party -- well, it's just horror and apathism. I don't even know how to judge him right now. We predict the possibility and the very elevation of the city’s heads. So we're trying to do everything we can to predict democratic mechanisms for holding elections. But I look forward to your suggestions, and I hope that you can put them in proper shape, and we'll have a professional discussion on each of the committees, because in individual cases, let's say, we can discuss something. I'd like us to move away from this kind of pompous conversation right now, and move on to a more substantive professional conversation on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. And now I ask the National Deputies to identify themselves as the basis for the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils, Rural, Rural, Urban Heads (on the technical and legal improvement of the electoral process) (Project 2664). Please include the "Council" system, and the people's deputies will decide on the adoption of this law as a basis. Please vote. [[13:14:17]] For 215 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, I have invited you to the hall 10 times. And it is your responsibility not to adopt this very important law. Please, once again, there will be readiness in the Supreme Council, you inform me, I'll put ad hoc and we'll repeat the vote. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the issue of re-examination of laws with proposals from the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Act on Architectural Activities and on licensing certain types of economic activity, with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Reporter, please, Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Isenko Dmitry Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u77	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Act on Architectural Activities and on Licensing of Certain Economic Activities was adopted by the Supreme Council on September 5th this year. The law is made with observations. The law cannot be signed in connection with the fact that the law provides for a substantial expansion in the application of arbitrary construction procedures. Hence, it is suggested that you take note of the comments. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u78	Please. Dear colleagues, please, from the committee, Zubko Hennady Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman, you know this is the third time this law has returned to the Hall of the Supreme Council at all. And it's only one thing that no one in the country yet understands that if we take this kind of liberalisation today, it's the city-building activity that one person is going to be doing, and our city-building project organizations are going to leave it at all in the summer. And this issue has been discussed in general, but the President of Ukraine has constantly vetoed and has not allowed for a normal vision at all, which has been both the committee and the national deputies on this issue. The committee considered this observation a third time and decided to send it to the pre-work committee, to correct the mistakes that we can make in the future after the destruction of the project institutes. And the request to all deputies to return this bill for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u80	May I ask the committee a question? Gennady Grigorovich, the proposal we now have here is to accept in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Is it possible to return to the committee? Dear colleagues, let's do this. There is a proposal to support this project, taking into account the President's proposals. In case it does not find support, we will then vote for the return of the law to the committee. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Please, please, sit down. Honorable colleagues, requests, will be identified in the House for the adoption of this law, taking into account the President's proposals. There are several suggestions that the Cabinet of Ministers supports in principle. May I put it to the vote? Please include the Council system and the National Deputies to decide on the adoption of this law in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Please. [[13:18:44]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, this law is actually rejected. Let's just do a committee task, work out a new law that deals with these issues. No objections? I won't. Because I can see that the room does not support this issue as proposed. Dear colleagues, the following question is also related to the president’s comments. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislation on Child Protection, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 27.09.2013. A representative of the profile committee, Yanks Igor Tarasovich, is invited to the rostrum, please. Dear colleagues, is there a committee representative? Please. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u81	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill (No.0956) is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the Protection of Childhood. On September 5, the Supreme Council adopted the bill. The president of Ukraine vetoed. As a result, the proposals put forward by the President were considered. On October 22, 2013, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Youth, Family and Sports adopted a proposal to amend some Ukrainian legislation on child protection, which was adopted on September 5, 2013. It is suggested that disagreements in the Supreme Council’s adopted law that changes to article 63 of the Ukrainian Civil Code should be reversed and that the guardian of minors, the guardian of minors, is appointed to be the person who is with the caregiver in family and family relationships. It is thought that the standard will significantly reduce the number of potential caregivers or caregivers compared to the original edition of article 63 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Therefore, it is suggested that the editor be made available in such a sequence, according to which the caregiver (the caregiver) over the child is usually appointed from those with the caregiver in family and family relationships. The committee decided to accept the proposals and to adopt the law in general, taking into account the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I understand there is a question. I'm asking the profile committee representative to stay. Paul Rosenko. Turn on the microphone to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u83	Your Honor, the committee's representative! The strike faction of the past time when we voted on this amendment strongly denied the third part of this amendment, which places restrictions on minors and underprivileged persons on the appointment of only one caregiver or caregiver. And we didn't support this amendment, by the way. And now I'm asking, in view of what the President's remarks are, we don't have any observations against the first two parts, but the third part essentially restricts the rights of the child. And that's what the science department was talking about. I point out, earlier, that a simple physical person who is over 18 years of age is bound by the law to have several caregivers or caregivers, and we only define a child as one. Therefore, we do not object to the first two paragraphs, but we firmly oppose the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u85	..to have the third part of the paragraph included. That is why I propose that part three of the President's amendments be put to the vote and not supported. Again, I say, it violates a child’s right to normal care or care.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u86	I don't mind, I think that's a good question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u87	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u88	Dear Alexander Valentinovich may have made sense, considering that these draft laws were introduced by the previous government and were being corrected, whether there is a position of the President who is no longer in Ukraine to return them to the committee, and that the President's already performing duties would make his proposals, and we did not waste time doing so. Because we're going to be wasting a lot of time right now, and there are fundamental things and principles of law that we need to adopt as to what's going on in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, we can either give you 300 votes, or we can accept it with the president's amendments. So there are two choices. We can put to the vote and adopt a draft law in general, taking into account the president's amendments or, by not voting this, we reject this law, and then the committee will introduce a new bill that will take into account the positions and parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers, and I hope that the Chief of the Supreme Council will actively support it. No objections? Let's go through with it. I'll put it to the vote to support the President's proposals. If this is not found in support of the hall, then the committee will work on a new form of law. Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we are voting on draft Law 0956 to adopt it, taking into account the President's proposals. I ask the Supreme Council to vote. [[13:25:42]] For-94 The decision is not taken. We reject this law and give the commission to a profile committee to work out a new bill that takes into account all the proposals that have now been made in the hall. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have draft decrees to rename villages, cities, villages, etc. There is a request for consideration of these projects, but the first of them is a draft decree on the renaming of the village of Stahanovka in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I would suggest removing this issue from consideration without considering the position of the people of Crimea, who are citizens of Ukraine, and who, I am convinced, are the ones who support the unity of our country. Dear colleagues, the 3647th draft of the Law applies to your consideration. Draft Decision to place the cities of Burstin in the Galician region of Ivano-Frankowsk district in the category of cities of regional importance. The project was presented by the Committee on 22.11.2013. Please, under a reduced procedure, we can make these decisions or at all without discussion. No discussion? Let us then support this proposal so that we can consider these issues without discussion. Please support the proposal and consider these questions without discussion. Turn on the "Race" system. [[13:27:34]] For-200 In summary, please put to the vote. [[13:27:53]] For-198 Procedural question, decision taken. Please, I request the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Construction and Local Self-Government of Gladys Vasil Ivanovich. I ask the secretariat once again to contact the deputies who are in the towers of the Supreme Council so that they can approach the hall immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! The Ivano-Frankiv District Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an appropriate submission on the assignment of the city of Burstin to the category of cities of regional importance. The amber is one of the major industrial cities not only of the Carnations, but also of the Western Ukraine, which is located in the northwestern part of the Ivano-Frankow region. Today, more than 18,000 people live in Burstin, and there has been a steady increase in the number of people living. The main sector of the city’s economy is the industry, which is represented by large industrial enterprises. In particular, in the city’s territory is DTEK Burstinska TEZ, the largest industrial site in the region. The city’s share of the total industrial production of the Galician region is 97 percent, and the industrial product structure of the area is more than 20 percent. The city has real strategic plans by 2020. The question of placing the city of Burstin in the Galician region of Ivano-Frankishte in the category of cities of regional importance is consistent with legislation. The city of Burstin, Galician District and Ivano-Frankiv district council were reviewed and approved. At the committee meeting, the matter was considered. The Committee is of the view that the city’s inclusion in the category of cities of regional importance will enhance the investment attractiveness of the territory to further industrial development, proper maintenance, and development of sociocultural objects, and historical monuments. Taking into account what has been said, the committee agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council that the city of Burstin of the Galician region of Johno-Frankov region be placed in the category of cities of regional importance and accepted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, do you understand the committee's proposal? Got it. Are there speakers? Please log in with the reduced procedure. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u92	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Kiev, Troyshina. Surely, fellow believers, we must support this initiative. The amber is a very nice town, a city, actually. I've been there many times, not two. There really is. A famous industrial object, such as the Burstine TEZ. That's because of the citizens' will. Well, to be honest, we have a general problem with administrative, deep administrative reform, which we will definitely come to, perhaps not now, not in time at this sort of distracted and smoldering time. But this must be done. We need reform, but since people have already made up their minds, we think "Paternity" thinks it's worth supporting. It's true, Alexander Valentine's Day, it's like this, somewhere. Well, there's very few people in the room. If you see voices missing there, maybe don't put them on the vote right now, and we'll put them on the vote right after lunch. Because it would be embarrassing if we didn't vote for such a simple and natural initiative, the idea of the citizens of Ivano-Frankish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u93	Please, National Deputy Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u94	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction of the Ukrainian Company has carefully considered these bills. We absolutely share that point of view of the local territorial communities regarding the rise of the status of cities and of Novgorod-Sversky and Burstin. We understand people want to hide themselves under the umbrella of the district budget, and it's going to be a better budget. Their expectations are absolutely just. But at the same time, we draw attention to the fact that most of the problems of cities like Burstin and Novgorod-Sversky, they have to be solved through the development of the economy of cities, regions, regions. And creating new jobs so that the same people who live there can create the same benefits and improve the same budget. In general, it is necessary to vote, but the strategic issue, the reference to cities of regional or other importance, does not solve without the development of the economy and the employment of those living in the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u95	Please turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u96	The Blackman of the Strike faction will be performing.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u97	Please turn on the microphone of the Montenegrin People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u98	Dear fellow national MPs! As a resident of Galicá, in fact, there is a city in the Galician region of Burstin, I will support this draft decision and the Faction Vitalia Klicka will also support. Because, in fact, the development of cities and the granting of more status, namely cities of regional importance, provides greater opportunities for both financing and other development, including economic development. The city of Burstin in the Galician region, in fact, with regard to economic development, has sufficient opportunities, for example, since Burstin also spends so - called environmental costs on the Galician region each year. And so I hope that these costs will be distributed in the Galician region, both to the city of district importance and now to the city of Burshitin of district importance. And so please support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u99	Please turn on the microphone of the Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Ruslan Marcinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u101	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u102	Ruslan Marcinkov, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ivano-Frankishte. This is not the first time that this issue has been referred to the session of the Supreme Council. And I would very much like today, actually, the Ivano-Frankiv community, and especially the amber community, to get the status that it's not the first year that it's addressed to the Supreme Council and so requested. That's why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union calls on our fellow MPs to immediately approach the Supreme Council and vote in favour of that decision. Because the city of Burstin is part of the five largest cities of Ivano-Francischi. This is a city that we call a city of energy, which has a specific status, and it has to be anchored on the entire Ukrainian level. In particular, I would like to say that today, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires a return to the development of local self-government, the return of authority to local authorities, the return of funds to local authorities, and the return of the opportunity to manage their property, land, and so on. So the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom says that today this is a requirement of the Ukrainians, this is the requirement of millions of Ukrainians, who came out today that our cities, villages, villages today should be able to do enough financially in the first place to do the powers provided for in the Law on Local Self-Government. That is why we demand that this decision be taken today - and that we immediately support the community's desire to manage its financial resources. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u103	Please turn on the microphone to the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone has any objection to the fact that the city community can demand, on the basis of the reasons given by Ukrainian legislation, to raise the status of its city. I have a different question. See, in Ukraine there are certain criteria under which a certain community may require it or a certain city may be subjective or not. It seems to me that this very procedure, when a particular MP is precisely, is targeting a question about a particular populous point, because there is some unification, is a procedure, well, something, you know, obsolete. Maybe those involved and the profile committee, that's the question, could come up with this, this general initiative. Where cities or cities are subject to criteria, they are simultaneously made by cities of subordination. Otherwise, it is totally subjective to some. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-11-m0.u105	Thank you. My fellow Members, I think our representatives of local self-government, the inhabitants of our cities, are not to blame for the fact that the Supreme Council is not ready to make this decision today, because I do not see the necessary number of deputies to make this decision. That's why I'm calling on the faction leaders to ensure that all members of your factions appear for 16 hours. That's the first one. Next. Now I would ask that all the faction leaders who are joining the coalition come to the office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we will have a serious meeting with you on this matter. Next question, dear colleagues. At 16 o'clock, we'll vote on that question. I am now informing you that proposals have been made for candidates to serve as judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Melnik Mikola Mikolajovic, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, Slidchenko Igor Dmitrović, Stretovic Vladimir Mikolajovic, Shevčuk Stanislav Volodymyrovic. All the personal affairs of these candidates for a very responsible position today will be handed over to the Ukrainian National Deputies so that tomorrow the committee will address this issue and on Thursday we have had the opportunity to vote on it in accordance with the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. Secrets. Of course, it's a secret ballot. And now, honourable colleagues, there's a break in the work of the Supreme Council until 4:00.
