ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take an active approach to your workplaces. Please take your e-mail cards for registration so that we can register and start our morning plenary meeting. Dear national MPs, distinguished guests, respected journalists! I hope our work today will be fruitful. So I'd like to ask the distinguished national deputies to register. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:02:23]] Today, 281 national deputies were registered in the session hall. The morning plenary session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, as we move to the order of today's session, I will inform you that there are no questions. In the media, there was a report that the Prime Minister -- you've heard of it -- filed a resignation application. So far, technically, this statement hasn't come to the Supreme Council yet, we're expecting it. And as soon as it comes, we'll consider it in due course. I think it'll be enough information for us to have no more questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, not physically. A verbal statement, unfortunately too much, does not add to the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear people's deputies, we're fine today. Well, no statement, well, what am I gonna do?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a resignation, there's a resignation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 30 minutes in a day to announce your parliamentary requests. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. You're going to have an hour today to ask the Difference, you all have the right to sign up and make a statement at this time. [[Noise Nodes]] I'll read your statements. Questions That Came: Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Youth and Sport of Ukraine for the promotion of synthetic coverage for sportsmen in the territory of the Pechaniv Public Education School I-III graduated from the Romani district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the promotion of the return of the village of Levkov to the Žitomir region, Žitomir district, Palija Maksim Ivanovich, injured during an anti-terrorist operation in the eastern part of the country, to a permanent residence for treatment and rehabilitation. Mikoli Soloshenka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, on the repayment of creditors’ debt to subcontractors for carrying out capital repairs at Barvarov High School on Artamonova Street, 16 in the village of Barvarovka, in the Jury region of Dnipropetrovsk, in the amount of 849,000 bracelets. Alexander Momota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to purchase medical equipment for military hospitals. Alexander Momota to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to allocate premises and finance the deployment of displaced persons from East and Crimea. Istwan Haydosh to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the issue of the issuance of bilingual documents on education to graduates of schools in Hungarian. Oleg Kulinić to the Head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine for payment of work and services to the city's municipal utility Zinkowské Communhosp. Jury Stac to the Head of the Government of the Public Stock Exchange Society of the State Savings Bank of Ukraine for the transfer of a deposit in the Public Shareholder Company of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Lviv Nazarov to a branch in the mainland of Ukraine. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at speeding up the issue of obtaining special permits for the private stockholders to use nadrama for the purpose of providing natural gas for their own production. Vladimir Polochaninova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of the requirements of effective legislation, as well as the illegal inaction of individual employees of the Prosecutor's Office and the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Herson area on the timely, comprehensive, full and impartial investigation of individual criminal conduct. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates energy in the field of consumer rights in the provision of gas supplies. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the elimination of violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, which allow for individual owners and for causing damage to the State in a particularly large way. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, delaying the issuance of a certificate of ownership of the immovable property of the participant in hostilities in Afghanistan, Oleg Festchenka, and other members of the cooperative of the plant society "Rosinka" (Cremenchuk). Oleg Kulinić to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the implementation of the capital repair of the road in Zynków district. Tarasa Osaulenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the inspection of a Ukrainian citizen named Andrea Bočkor. Tarasa Osaulenka to the Department of State Automobile Inspection of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, for the purpose of minimizing the danger to road users. Igora Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the transfer of the battalion of the special assignment of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine "Sic" equipment and weapons from the funds of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Andrija Mishchenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for providing information on how to respond to the Ukrainian Security Service regarding a number of persons whose actions contain signs of criminal offences against the foundations of Ukraine's national security. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the completion of the construction of the pipeline to the village of Burgunka in the region of Hersson. Olga Mikhailenko to the head of the Herson State Administration for the funding for the completion of the repairs covered the school-school complex "Chaplin High School" in the Herson region. Mikoli Kruglov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the construction of the "Creating a Sports Town on the Prospect of Heroi Stalingrad, 4 in the city of Mikolayev" project. Oleg Tuggnibok to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Herson District State Administration, on the need to take action to address the situation at Novorontsov Public Education School No. 1, in connection with personnel changes in the education system. Alexander Tabalova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, on the verification of information and on the use of procurator's measures regarding illegal construction by the citizen Tetjana Ponomarenko of a multi-story, multi-room apartment building on the street of Mendtni, 32 in the cave district of Kiev. Vladimir Ariev to the prosecutor of Kiev about the situation surrounding the Jerello boarding house in Desert Vodice. Victoria Bullach to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to provide necessary treatment for Moses Danil, a diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukosis at the expense of one of the national programs. Victoria Bullach to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the use of measures for the return of deposits of Onischuk Natalia and Onischuk Stanislaw, which are on the accounts of the Public Shareholders Association of the City Commercial Bank. Roman Ilika to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association "Ukranafta" for the capital rehabilitation of roads in Borislav Lviv Region at the expense of the Public Shareholder Society "Ukranafta" in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On the Universal Target Program for the Protection of Population and Areas from Technological and Natural Emergencies 2013 - 2017." Roman Ilika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of a hospital building for 250 beds in Borislav Lviv district under the Ukrainian Law on the Universal Purpose Program for the Protection of Populations and Territories from Exceptional Situations and Technological and Natural Nature for 2013 - 2017. Svetlana Fabricant to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, Odessa City Head on illegal land use and private ownership of Ukraine's natural-intelligence fund - the site of the garden and park art - the Dendropark of Victory in Odessa. Vitalia Žuravsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the built-in pipeline to the village of Žitomirsk Region to state property and its entry into service. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the return of the Dnipropetrov military hospital to state property. Igor Zyrkina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the reduction of the pressure of public authorities on businesses. Valerija Suškević to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the creation of conditions of accessibility in the premises of social protection institutions for persons with disabilities and other low-income groups. Istwan Haydosh to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to finance the construction of a mechanized waste treatment plant in the village of Janosha of the Bereg region of Zacarpathia. Jury of Bojarski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, on artificial problems in obtaining budgetary compensation for VAT created for the Public Shareholders Association "The Novakramator Machinery Plant". Jury Bojarski to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, on the cancellation of tax liabilities to the Public Shareholders Association of the Cramatory Plant of Heavy Construction, which suffered significant losses during the ATO. Leonidas Dacenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of bankruptcy and the change of ownership of a portion of the property of a subsidiary of the State Shareholding Company "The Bread of Ukraine" - the Talnivian Combine of Agricultural Products and the presence in its territory of an unknown armed with automatic weapons of paramilitary formations that arrived in the city of Talne Cherkas region from the zone of conducting the Anti-Terrorist Operation. Leonidas Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate appointment of the heads of the Kanov District State Administration and the Zolitani District State Administration of the Cherkas region, which were submitted by the Cherkas District Administration to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but were returned without consideration. Alexander Fitchuk to the head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine for the recalculation of the costs for the repair of the highway in the town of St. Andrija Tajniboka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with legislation and payment of fines awarded by the District Court of Lviv. Edward Leonov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the betrayal of State interests and the violation of an oath by the judges of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Mr. Eduard Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Ukrainian National Agency for State Service on the operation of the National Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in the Crimea. Sergia Vlasenka to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine for the immediate transmission to the President of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on the use of emergency measures to secure military and military facilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, engaged in anti-terrorist operations, means of specific immuno-prevention and treatment of particularly dangerous infections, sanitation and reanimation of class "C". Alexia Kayda to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the inclusion of the Saint-Uspan Pochai laureate in the Kremenac-Pochai National Historical and Architectural Reserve, the need to include it in the UNESCO World Heritage List and the approval of the State programme for the preservation of laurel structures. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of citizens' housing in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the safety of children living in areas where military action took place. Igor Yankiv to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the Primorski Municipal Council of Zaporezki District regarding the granting of illegal permits for the establishment of temporary structures for the conduct of entrepreneurial activities. Fedorjak's Gennady to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need to restore specialised auctions from the sale of compressed gas for municipal consumption. Hennady Fedorjak and Jacob Besbah to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine on the need to take effective measures to protect the labour and social rights of municipal workers. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory review of the parliamentary appeal of 16 June 2014 on violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Treatment of Citizens by officials of the High Town District Department of the Ministry of Interior in the Kyiv region. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Energy Sector, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration to address the urgent issue of electrification of new streets in the village of Berezhovka in the region of Kyiv. Sergey Greenewecko to the head of Odessa District State Administration on the state of preparation of Odessa District Schools for the new academic year. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the Ukraine's elevator industry. Vladimir Chuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to implement green investment projects within the framework of the Treaties for the sale of units (parts) of the assigned amount with a view to the proper implementation by Ukraine of the provisions of the Kyoto Protocol. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the Society's officials with limited responsibility, the Poltavabudinvest Investment Company, in the construction of a multi-story residence on the Borovovski Boulevard, 11 in Poltava, the illegal possession by investors of 17 million dollars, the repeated closure of criminal cases violated by the facts, and the lengthy investigation of them. Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine, Alexander Kalenkov, on the verification of the legality of the transfer of State property to the statutory capital of the Private Shareholder Association "Severonational Association "Azot" and the illegality of the free alienation of corporate rights belonging to the State in the statutory capital of the Society with a limited responsibility of the Universal Trading Company, for the benefit of the Private Shareholder Society "Sevírodonekéneté union "Azot". Marciana Lopachak to the Deputy Head of State Inspectorate for Protection of Consumer Rights of Olga Sokolova on ensuring that consumers have access to information about the origin of the goods. Viacheslav Zadrožany to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds to the Dnipropetrovsk Region to ensure the timely and full payment of all socially protected expenditures of local budgets. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the verification and implementation of the necessary measures to ban construction on the street of Xyiv, 32 in the city of Kiev on the Pecher Mountains, within the historic architectural zone. Irina Heratschenko and Maria Matios to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine for the provision of medical kits in the area of anti-terrorist operation. Mikhail Golovka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, for the restoration of the movement of separated trains following the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the need for amendments to Cabinet Regulation No. 764 of 11 August 2010 for the purpose of animal development. Markiana Lopachech to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, for the preservation of the territorial community of Lviv by the Museum of Medical History of Galicina’s name, Marian Panchachin. Irina Sech to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insolent violation of property rights by the leadership of the Bougainian Paradise of the Lviv region. Irina Farion to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for failure to provide answers to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for a number of parliamentary appeals from March 6 to June 5, 2014. Irina Farion to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the appeal of employees of the National Institute of Scientific and Scientific Research of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on their illegal release and on the position of Director of Odystic Anatoly Tchaikovsky. Krivetsky's Igor to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the possible misconduct of doctors at the city clinic and prompt medical care regarding the provision of improper medical care. Krivetsky's Igor to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal alienation of the land area, which relates to the Victory Dendroport located in the Primorski district of Odessa. Oleg Osukhovsky and Ruslan Zelik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for conducting a thorough examination of Ukraine's extradition requests. Irina Sech to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the prevention of fraudulent activities and the formation of a financial building pyramid in the implementation of housing construction projects of the Coastal Quarters and so forth. Anatolia Vitova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at halting possible legislative violations in the field of evaluation activities in Ukraine. Eugene Melnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the actions of Ukraine's law enforcement authorities in search of and accountability for former high-ranking officials. Eugene Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the incomplete consideration of the MP's request for misconduct in the management of the state-owned enterprise "Novolinska Mine Frontier Directorate" 10 in the Volinsk region and for the audit of financial and economic activities. Maria Matios and Irina Heraszczenko to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Investigation of Facts The threat to Ukrainian journalists by the Russian Liberation Front terrorist organization. Oxana Sold to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the elimination of disagreements over supply and import operations in the customs territory of Ukraine for medical supplies and medical supplies. Mr. Alexander Volkova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal activities of the staff of the Glossiev district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, aimed at hindering the economic activity of the Public Shareholders Association of Kiev. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the release from office of military commissioner of Poltava District Military Commission of Colonel Boris Pavlov for separatist sentiments (maintaining the occupation of Crimea and eastern areas of Ukraine, not recognizing Dustenk as legitimate president of Ukraine, etc.). Oleg Pankević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, for the use of operational measures to determine the circumstances of the disappearance and capture of members of the military, Taras Matvisov and Valerija Vynogradov, as well as their release from captivity. Oleg Pankević, head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine, for the immediate implementation of payment orders for the administration of road infrastructure and communications, the Department of Housing and Utilities of the Herson City Council, totalling 2 million 278 thousand 700 dollars. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the solution of the purchase and launch of Kevlar helmets. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to ensure military uniforms and the shoes of the winter model of members of the armed forces of Ukraine, Nacguardia, the battalions of volunteers of the Ministry of Interior and the battalions of territorial defence. Olega Láska to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal responsibility of the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, and other officials of the Russian Federation for crimes against peace, security of humanity and international law, national and public security of Ukraine and personal rights and freedoms of man and citizen, committed through the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, military occupation and annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the city of Sevastopol, the organization of secession and terrorism in Ukraine. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to address the situation of non-voluntary use of nadra and extraction of gravel raw materials from rivers and coastal protection strips. Anatolia Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the introduction of an alternative way of calculating the consumption of thermal energy in residential buildings with the aim of reducing gas consumption. Vadim Merikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate and unobjective examination of parliamentary appeals regarding the conduct of a proper examination of the facts of the Society's fraudulent activities, with limited responsibility of the Metalinvest Company Group, in carrying out entrepreneurial activities and inducing the perpetrators to be held accountable under the current Ukrainian legislation. Jurija Orotyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of examining the involvement of the Ukrainian national deputy Spiridon Kilinkarov in anti-State activities. Jurya Orotyuka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the National Aviation Service of Ukraine for the settlement of traffic in Ukrainian airspace. Michael Blawajkow to the Director - General of the Lviv Regional Broadcasting Company regarding the activities of the Lviv Regional Broadcasting Company. Michael Blawajkok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the investigation officers of Kiev-Svetoshin district department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kyiv region. Andrija Tabalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to clarify the order of receipt of the anti-terrorist operation, which takes place in eastern Ukraine, as a participant in hostilities. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on burglary, intrusion into the premises, damage to the property of my official MP at the address: the city of Krivi Rig, the street of the 22nd Partnership, the house 37 and the robbery of the citizen of Tetjana Udovicenko, who was at the time in the said receiving, terrorist group of six armed persons. Bogdan Benjuk, head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine for the official clarification of the possibility of exercising the right to acquire Ukrainian citizenship after the territorial origin of the citizens of Belarus. Andrija Shipka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the urgent use of measures to increase the number of beds in the Dnipropetrov military hospital. Igora Miroshnicka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in relation to the situation of a public shareholder company called the Sumski Scientific and Productive Union of the name Frunze and leading the enterprise to the brink of bankruptcy by the criminal actions of its Director-General, Alexi Tzimbal. Groups of National Deputies (Ribakova, Paraskiva and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-privatization of important domestic strategic enterprises. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for possible violations of construction legislation, rental of land, utilities in the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of the forest floor in Chernigów. Galina Black to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the creation of an information centre for relatives of Ukrainian military forces who are in the zone of combat. Galina Black to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need for a legal review of the activities of the Private Lyug Enterprise and the inaction of individual officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Poltavian Region. Igor Sabia to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the debt of salaries to employees of a separate unit of the Public Shareholders Association of the Southwest Building. Alexander Dubov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fact of the raiding of the production cooperative "CENTR" in the city of Killia Odessa. Oleg Tajnibok to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, the Head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the prohibition of entry into Ukraine by prominent Russian actors, artists and other representatives of culture who publicly support the military aggression and actions of President Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation, aimed at destroying the integrity of the State of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Olga Fight for the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of social benefits and the failure to pay for the birth of a child in the Hmělnice region. Groups of National Deputies (Zelika, Osuhovsky, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the improper examination of the parliamentary request, which points to the fact that private property has been seized in the Basilk district of Kiev and the illegality of the law enforcement authorities. Maria Matios and Irina Heraszczenko to the Head of the Secretariat of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the reexamination of the parliamentary request in connection with the court’s decision to execute the members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and their head of authority prior to the commencement of the work of the newly created commission. Vitalia Ilyashenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on outstanding issues in the field of land relations. Vitalia Ilyashenko to the procurator of the Cherka district on the facts of a gross violation of the law by officials of the Registration Service of the Tallinn District Department of Justice of the Cherka district. These are all the questions, the honourable national MPs you've made. Let's move on to the next item in the agenda. I'm asking you to invite all the national deputies to the session room. As long as the national deputies are now entering the session room, there are several announcements. According to article 60, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on its membership in the parliamentary group "For Peace and Stability" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy Demiduk also reports on his membership in the MP's "For Peace and Stability" group. In the order of today’s session, the second reading is the draft law, registration number 4032a. I am requesting a report from the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitali Yuriovich. Teryohin? Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that nearly two months ago, we adopted the Crimea Act in our first reading. The Supreme Council commissioned a reduced procedure to prepare it, but it turned out that it was only today that it appeared in the hall. What is involved in this law? In connection with temporary occupation, numerous coalitions have arisen in our businesses and citizens who have tax obligations in their branches, offices, or subsidiaries. In fact, these companies, which are in an unoccupied territory, go to the prosecutor's office for tax evasion. There have been major problems with the issue of certificates of origin for products produced in Crimea. There have been huge problems in evacuating businesses to unoccupied territory and citizens who move to unoccupied territory from occupied territory. As a result of a little bit of work, you're offered a table, which is made up of 181 pages and contains 317 different suggestions. I can tell you that the vast majority of these proposals are accounted for, unaccounted for by conceptually unacceptable proposals that actually acknowledge the annexation of Crimea. Well, let's say there's an exotic proposal among them that all the taxes that are currently being paid to Russia's budget in Crimea were proposed to include gross expenditures of Ukrainian enterprises in order to reduce taxes on the Ukrainian budget. Of course, we could not agree to such suggestions, they are not included. The entire text is fully in line with the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, customs and tax services. So I would suggest, Mr. Chairman, that we don't delay the time simply to ask which of the authors of the unaccounted rights has a question and if necessary put them to a vote. If you can't find one, Mr. Chairman, I would ask you very much in connection with today's, let's say -- not a very high appearance in Parliament, put this bill in a second reading and in general a signal vote to not lose it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u3	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any amendments? I'm sorry. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do it this way. I think it'll be faster, I'll go to the repairs, so it'll be fast and fast as possible. Amendment number nine. Do they have authors? None. Is it? It's your repair. One second. After the amendments I'll make, you raise your hand where your amendment will go. That's it. Is it the 10th amendment? It doesn't. Is there an 11th amendment? None. 16th? It doesn't. 18th? Twenty-two? None. 23, 31, 32 – none.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u4	I know. We're going to go over the rejected ones, and you're going to raise your hand to confirm them. 49th? None. 50th? None. 52nd? It doesn't. 54th? It doesn't. 55th? I mean, it'll be faster. 61? I'm sorry, 57th and 58th doesn't. 62nd? It doesn't. 65? It doesn't. The '80s? It doesn't. 81? None. 96-a, 92-a-a-none. The 99th is gone. 103 is not. 116 is gone. 117th is gone. 123rd and 121th are gone. 128's gone. 132 a's gone. 134th is gone. 138th is gone. 139th is gone. 150th is not. 159th -- none. 160th is not. There's no 165th. 167th -- no notes either. 190's gone. 196a - none 202 corrections. No suggestions from the authors. 203rd and 204th -- neither is it. 213 is gone. 221 is not. 231 is gone. 236 is gone. 237th is gone. 239th, 240th, 241th, none. 249, it's not. 251 is not. 260 is gone. 262th, the authors don't claim it. 266th and 267th are not members of the proposal. 270th is no offer. 271 is not. 279th, they don't insist either. 280th, 282nd, do not insist, distinguished national MPs. 293th and 294th, doesn't the author insist? No, it's not. 295th doesn't insist. 303 doesn't insist. 305th and 306th. 306th? Please turn on the Hirschfeld. The author is Hirschfeld. Please turn on the microphone, please. 306th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u5	306. It concerns certification, as the rapporteur said. The matter had been brought to a decision at the Supreme Council, which had been discussed by the Committee. Because the mechanism established to obtain certificates is ineffective and will not allow enterprises to obtain relevant documents and export products.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u6	Please comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u7	This is not about what you said. It's about the fact that paragraph 9 you're proposing to rule out. And in paragraph 9, we're talking about when this law goes down. So this is not about certification at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u8	Do you insist on voting? Turn on the Hirschfeld microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u9	What we discussed on the committee before the decision was taken, paragraph 308.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u10	What? You're about. Now it's about 306 revisions. Are you talking about 308?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u11	308th, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u12	308 readjustment indicates that if a certificate of origin is required, then it is necessary that, in accordance with Chapter II of the Customs Code, or according to the Treaty of Origin of the World Trade Organization, or the first Protocol to the Association Agreement if it is ratified, there is no possibility of physical verification of the place of origin of the goods, that is, where they are produced or are sufficiently processed. If such a test cannot be done physically, even though I do not know why, then a certificate cannot be issued because it is not clear where the product came from. So let's say today that our or the representatives of the TPN, or the customs authorities, are going around the world to produce or process goods enough to make a verification or issue a certificate of origin or a certificate of conformity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u13	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u14	We were simply transposing the standards contained in today’s legislation. We can't write them among other things, because they're all just like the requirements of chapter I of the Customs Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u15	Excuse me, do you insist on voting? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 306.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u16	Eight! Eight!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u17	306. We're talking about 308?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u18	Yes. Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u19	308th. For confirmation, I would like to vote on Amendment 307. 308, I'm sorry, 308. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:45:54]] For-59 The decision is not approved. Amendment 315. No suggestions from the authors. Amendment 316. No suggestions. 317. The amendment was not accepted. All of these are all the amendments that are in this bill. Let's put it on the beep. The author asks for a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite all deputies to the session room. I understand that you have a sufficiently tense week and the last working day of your life, honourable national deputies. But given your necessary quality of work, I would very much ask you to sit in your workplace right now so that you don't run at the last minute and then don't talk about not being able to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on the bill (registration number 4032a) on tax and customs control in the free economic zone of Crimea and on the characteristics of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[10:47:37]] For 177 Please show by factions. Parenthood - 53, Party of Regions - 43, Impact of Vitalia Klicka - 27, Economic Development - 17, Sovereign European Ukraine - 1, Freedom - 27, Peace and Stability - 0, non-fractional - 9. Please turn on the microphone to the drafter of the bill to the national MP Teryochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, you see, Friday in one word. But I would point out that without this bill, there is every reason to put those entrepreneurs and those directors of companies who cannot pay taxes from the occupied territory in the Ukrainian budget and who cannot in any way evacuate their businesses to the unoccupied territory. I propose that the next time, I hope that this Supreme Council will meet, put this bill on second reading and in general. Now, you see, there's no sense of readiness.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u21	Would you please turn on the microphone for the people's deputy Matveyenko? Debt? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u22	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Broadcasters! It is exceedingly unfortunate that the stated one, which is very difficult to overestimate, puts the vote right now on Friday, when there are very few national deputies in the session room. The fact is that the bill does something to help those businesses that remain in Crimea's temporarily occupied territory is a business with Ukrainian businesses. In order for them to properly carry out their farming activities, the proper conditions for carrying out their farming activities, they pay their wages to those people. In addition, those businesses located in Ukraine have branches, officials have not been drawn to criminal responsibility, support for the bill is extremely important, regardless of political preferences and belonging to a political MP or group. I suggest we move it to Thursday and put it to the vote again, thank you, for the next Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, let's try to re-vote the second. You don't have to? You don't have to. Proposal to move to the next plenary session. Do I get it right? Okay. Yes, I see, such a consolidated position of the hall, if you were still in such a consolidated position that all the members of your factions and groups would be in the workplace at the same time, and we wouldn't be able to bear it, it would be beautiful at all. You can see the vote, and it's too bad. I would ask you very much for the leadership of factions and groups to consolidate their members in order to have enough votes on Friday, with your acceptance of this bill fully supporting it, and the number of your factions and groups is not enough to vote on them, unfortunately. Let's ask the Conciliation Council next time to include this bill in the second reading, after all, to put it back in order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm being approached by the National Deputies on an official basis. It's the head of the Supreme Council. Please. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have our first reading and will be discussed in the first reading of draft laws. I ask that we support the proposal for a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Please, colleagues, please back up, please vote. [[10:52:18]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Is there a chance to try again? Let's do it again so that we can go through it all over again. Please. It's not a return, it's a proposal to look at draft laws in the first reading by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:52:55]] For 165 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please consider the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on strengthening the protection of children's rights. National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna Irina Stepanovna, please report to the Parliamentary Chamber. Registration number 4100a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to strengthen the protection of children's rights. The essence of this bill is well - known that additional mobilization has been announced today in connection with the situation in eastern Ukraine. Today, there are some 323,000 multi - child families in Ukraine. These are families that raise more than three, four, and five children. In particular, 17,000 are families that raise more than five children, 24,000 are families that raise four children and 248,000 children who raise three children. What is your point? It is suggested that husbands and women who raise large families should be given time to mobilize and only by their consent at their place of residence and at their address to allow them to mobilize. The other one. The bill defines the age of a minor child. In accordance with the UN Convention and the Child Protection and Protection Act, a minor child in Ukraine is considered not to be under 16 years of age, but to 18 years of age. Thus, the bill defines the age of a minor child. Third. This minor’s age will be added to the Law on Military Duty and Military Service. What does that mean? Women are released from military service, with children under the age of 18. In addition, it is suggested that men and women who are in training and service and in detention be released from the mobilization.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u26	Allow me to finish the speech. It's a very interesting performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u27	One last minute. Children who are disabled in the first and second groups. In this case, the child’s age extends to 23 years. Dear national deputies, the war will eventually be won, the terrorists will be expelled from our territory, but the children of many families are the most socially vulnerable. By taking parents away from them, and in such families, mothers usually do not work to serve such a serious, large family, we deprive these children of their right to study. More than three underage children lead them to work and to provide for their future. The United Nations, after conducting an analysis of the last three years of the situation in Ukraine, concluded that by 2050 26 million Ukrainians could remain in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill and allow these children and many children to live in a full-fledged family, to enable them to learn and build our future. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we vote, we must listen to a representative of the profiling committee. I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum of Grinevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee, this is the committee, please, dear colleagues, make it: two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u29	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I want to report that the committee unanimously supported the bill. And I would very much like, Alexander Valentine's Day, to present the proposed bill as a transcript in a committee with observations and suggestions from scientific experts and suggestions from the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism. So, "The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to amend such laws of Ukraine. First. In the first paragraph of article 15, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, the words and figures "who has a child under the age of 16" replace the words and figures "who has a child under the age of 18" with the words "who has a child under the age of 18. " The other one. In article 23 of the Act on Mobilization and Mobilization in paragraph 4 of the Ukrainian Act, replace the words “three or more children under the age of 16” with “three or more children under the age of 18”. Paragraph 5 reads: "Women and men who raise their children themselves, children under 18 years of age, may be appointed to military service if agreed upon and only by place of residence." After paragraph 5, complete with two new paragraphs of this content: "Women and men who have an adult child, who is a disabled first or third group, until she reaches 23 years of age." "Adoptors, foster parents, foster parents, foster parents, or children deprived of parental care under the age of 18, they may be called to military service if they agree and only live in a place of residence." Third. In article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Obligation and Military Service, paragraph "i" is a short part of 6 words and digits: "age up to 16 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u30	Please allow me to complete the report on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u31	Thank you. Replace with "age up to 18" words and digits. In section 8 "g" of Part 8, paragraph 2 after the words "child or a few children", add the words "age up to 18" to the words and digits "age up to 18". Paragraph 5 is replaced by the words and digits "age up to 18". Ending Positions. First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within a month, from the date of entry into force of this law, to bring its legislation into line with this law. To ensure that ministries, other central executive bodies, their laws and regulations comply with this law. In light of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, as a law that I have announced to the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now see so many who wish to speak, please sign up: two in favour, two in favour. We're working on a reduced procedure. National Deputy Furman, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Orphan Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u34	Please turn on the microphone of the Orphan People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u35	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports the bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child protection. Obviously, the State must do its utmost to protect our military personnel, their families, protect our children, and such a bill is necessary because, unfortunately, during the first wave of mobilization, there were occasions when parents, many - parent parents, called one child in the family, and all these things needed to be arranged in a legal order, in a legal order. It is equally urgent now, Mr. Head, to monitor the implementation of our legislative initiatives, for example, we voted in May on the Resolution on Enhancing the Defence of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation, on Strengthening Military and Patriotic Education in Schools, on Restoration of Military Chairs, on Reiteration of Appeal, on Participation of Volunteers for Training on Land Army Bases, unfortunately, and so far no paragraph of this decree has been implemented. As early as May, we passed draft social protection bills on military personnel, saying that military personnel who are in service perform duties during an anti-terrorist operation should not pay off bank loans, a penny for them, there should be no check on their businesses if they are physical entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, there are bills coming in today, foam coming in, and this law is not actually working. I would also like to draw very important attention to the non-compliance of the law on the granting of status to participants in hostilities, to soldiers in the ATO area, to people dying, to the lack of adequate social protection, to the lack of status. Therefore, the Supreme Council should take control and listen to the government on this issue. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u36	Please, National Deputy Ivanchuk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Head! Ivanchuk, Fatherland. Our faction will support this bill, but I would like to say how many families there are. In Ukraine, there are only 17,000 families, where there are more than 5 children and only 23,000 where there are four. I think this will have no effect on our well - being, and such families need to be protected. We will support and ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u38	People's deputy of the Fries, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u39	Please pass the word to Valery Paccan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u40	Please turn on Valery Paccan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u41	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The political party's strike party will support the above-mentioned bill. I ask all of you to think and protect those families where there are really underage children. As an example, yesterday's: a woman is on the phone, a man in the ATO zone, a son in the ATO area, and a young child is in the hospital. We need to protect such families and allow normal children to grow up in normal families. Please don't all include your political ambitions, your emotions, but support the above-mentioned bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u42	National Deputy Hermann, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u43	Surely, Mr. Head and honourable colleagues, we must support all that makes life easier for people and all that makes the situation easier for those who will be recognized to join the army. But with your permission, I would like to pay attention to two things that are mandatory. First. We heard from the Minister of Finance yesterday that, as of August 1, they would no longer pay military finances. I demand to call for this, to make an emergency meeting next week, to call a finance block for the Cabinet of Ministers here, and to do everything to calm people down, and to find the funds to pay the military. The other one. I will still insist that the Part Mobilization Act be distributed to all members of the Supreme Council. I think we should divide the fate of the Ukrainian people. And there must be no exception that we are protected here, and people are not protected. And by protecting large families today, we should share their destiny with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two factions still insist. Zarubinsky's national deputy, please, one minute. I have the right to grant orders when factions insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u45	Dear friends! What was in the clear scenario yesterday, by uninterrupted directing and by talented production, was a broken coalition called the European Choice, after the announcement that Narishkin in the neighbouring state there was a mass applause in parliament, should in no way affect the parents who support three or more children in families who support children with disabilities up to 23 years of age. That is why this bill is correct and needs to be supported. At the same time, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask for your support in why we finally need to know, and how many have our citizens been mobilized to date, which social categories have been mobilised? Is it correct to say that children between the ages of 20 and 30 are among the highest officials? So we need to know this information. I think because I still can't figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u46	Give me half a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u47	So far, I don't know who's running the ATO, because here the different data was given when Mr. Parobius was speaking, it was said differently. Perhaps this information was provided by the Supreme Commander in Chief? We need to know who's mobilizing, how they're mobilizing, and what the criteria are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u48	People's deputy to Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u49	Thank you, Popescu, Economic Development. Masterful colleagues! Our group supports this bill. And in view of people’s concerns about mobility, especially those who have many children, many families who call us all the time. In particular, yesterday I received a phone call from the region of Chernivecki, Glubick, Stóžinetsk, and Novoselski. We are obliged to accept this bill. And if all of a sudden there's not enough votes, I'd like to postpone the vote to the next plenary Thursday. I want to point out that the main thing in this law is that we bring a number of bills into line with the Constitution and other legislative acts, and in particular, we define a person under 18 as a child, which helps to improve the effectiveness of the legal regulation of the protection of children's rights. Therefore, we are obliged to do so and to address some of the problems and concerns that our people now have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, another parliamentary group insists on the word. From the MP's "For Peace and Stability" National MP Opanaschenko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, the question of mobilization is really very important for the country, but it is also very difficult for Ukrainian citizens. So if we allow parents, the father himself, to stay in the family to raise three or more children, it is a very useful bill and we really need it. But what I'd like to say is that it's very premature in the parliamentary-presidential republic that the coalition has become an authority in such a difficult time. And so once again, I emphasize that when it comes to mobility, it's a question of wage provision, taking responsibility and taking responsibility for what's going on. I urge you to clearly support this bill. Those who joined the coalition and were entrusted with their voices, their preferences, and the coalition, of course, did not come there alone, so let us reflect on what was happening in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, we're in the middle of a reduced procedure, you've actually run out of two rules to discuss. I ask the secretariat to invite all the national deputies to the session room. And, dear fellows, I'm asking you and the Party of Regions to take your seats. Now we don't have a majority, we don't have a minority, so I'm talking to all the parliamentarians who are in the room. Let us unite our voices to protect our children, to protect their parents in these difficult circumstances. That's what this law is about. So I very much ask all the national deputies to uphold this law. Please, Your Honor, 4100a. I understand that if we take into account the amendments made by the committee that announced the Greenewecki People's Deputy from the profile committee that runs this law, we can also accept it as a whole. Yes or no? We can. I beg you, Sergey Raphaelovich, may we all? We can do it as a whole. Please, Your Honor, in the light of the amendments that have been announced by Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich at the commission of the Committee on National Security and Defence, please support the bill 4100a as a whole. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[11:11:13]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you all for your support. The factions, please. Parenthood – 63, Party of Regions – 39, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 33, Sovereign European Ukraine – 10, 35 – Freedom, Peace and Stability – 33, non-fractional – 34. Dear colleagues, the next question in the first reading that we should consider. This is a draft law amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Land Code to clarify the powers of the central executive body, which implements state policy in the field of land relations. Please, from the committee, who will report? We have the head of the Committee, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich. I'm the only one I'm asking, dear colleagues, we should have had the law of 2552a. But at the request of the committee, we are transferring this law to the next parliamentary week. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u53	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Valentine's Day, dear colleagues. In your opinion, you are proposing a draft Act amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Land Code to clarify the powers of the central executive authority that implements state policy in the field of land relations. I would like to point out that the active positions of part IV of article 122 are that the central authority of the executive authority on land issues in the field of land relations and its territorial authorities transfer land parcels of State ownership, in addition to the cases defined in part eight of this article, to ownership or to use for all purposes. According to this standard, there is no clear distinction between the central authority and its local authorities. Thus, in practice, it is not clear to which body the Ukrainian citizen needs to be approached for land use. This approach to resolving the issue involves considerable difficulties, and it requires considerable financial costs for those interested in obtaining land owned or leased. And because in practice, you have to go from the village to the area, to the area, to the area, to Kiev. Thus, the bill proposes to amend the 122 articles and give such powers directly to the territorial authorities, which are the district departments and areas of the State Land Agency of Ukraine. As a result of the discussion of the project, there was no agreement among the members of the committee to take another decision under article 114 on the transfer of authority to district government or local government authorities. I want to explain to everyone that this can only be settled on the basis of changes before.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u54	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u55	changes to the Constitution and laws on local government administrations, on local self-government, where regulations are laid down, which are also regulated. I would like to support the changes to 122 articles, which will make it easier for us to work more easily and not all to travel to Kiev. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for two in favor, two in favor. Please sign in. People's MP Filipenko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u57	Thank you, fellows of honor! Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. We're sorry, but we don't actually support this bill. I'm trying to explain why. First of all, we would like to transfer the authority to the appropriate territorial units of the central executive branch of the agricultural assignment. Instead, if you recall, for 80 years the authorities of local self - government have managed the land fairly well. And the reporter and head of the Committee, Grigory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, said that until we change the Constitution, where the order of administration of the land of state ownership is foreseen, we will not be able to actually allow the local authorities of rural, village councils to manage the lands that are adjacent to the settlements. I have also introduced a bill in co-authorship with Deputy Kulinic, which provides for the transfer of land from state property that lies outside the population, to the land of municipal property. To some extent, this will allow local authorities to resolve land issues associated with renting, bringing almost a billion additional profits to local budgets. So we're not going to support this bill because everyone who's involved in agriculture understands that the most efficient way to use the land is to control its use in the most effective way in the local self-government. For this reason, we will not be supporting the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u58	People's Deputy Tuggnibok, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Igor Sabia.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u60	Please turn on the microphone of the Sabia People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u61	Igor Sabiy, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 189 constituency, Hmelničina. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union will not support this bill. We believe that part 4 of article 122 should be left in its proper form, since such changes will not affect the increased control of the community over the earth. On the contrary, changes will only increase corruption on the ground and reduce the control of agricultural land. In our opinion, only after the changes to the Constitution, only after the decentralisation of power, will the executive committees of the respective regional, district councils be able to be referred to these executive committees and there will be a need to address the issue of land distribution on the ground. Because really only a community can know better who to give land to and what to give land to, they know people, and if they do that now, it's going to be a corrupt component again, and it's going to confuse our land allocation system even more. The problem is that without the participation of the local community, the land is not distributed to those who live directly in the community, but God knows who. This is especially true of lands where it is possible to establish careers, and it is generally the agricultural lands that are allocated to individual agriculture, not to humans, but to persons in general, to those who then transfer these lands and change assignments, and to those lands instead of agriculture that have illegal careers. Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" will not vote in favour of this bill and calls on everyone not to vote in favour of this project. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u62	The word is given to the People's Deputy Kaplin, the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u63	We can make an incredible number of decisions that, at first glance, have land relations to be the foundation of a new economic policy in agriculture, to provide on a practical basis all the possibilities for decentralization. But there is another question that my colleagues, previous speakers, have pointed out: Where to decentralize? How can we say that all the local leaders elected under Yanukovich’s regime in a corrupt way can properly manage national wealth? No, not at all. That is why our political power urges Parliament to make decisions today and in the order that will really build a clear, consistent mechanism for organizing these issues. We have to make changes to the Constitution, we have to hold next elections to the local councils. We really need to form adequate performances in places. And only after that, and with clear, meaningful public control, can we implement those ideas that are laid down in some of the progressive bills that are passed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I hope that in the fall a new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without commies and the Party of Regions and pseudo-independent deputies will make the necessary decisions that will really build a new economic platform for the development of Ukrainian agriculture and form an extremely clear dialogue between the centre and the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u64	National MP Momot, faction of "regions."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u65	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, I fully agree with my colleague Philippenk that, of the motives he indicated, we cannot vote in favour of this bill. So I suggest that we send it to the authors for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u66	Please, one minute is the people's MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u67	In 2013 under the pressure of the Presidential Administration, honourable nationals, respected citizens of Ukraine, took the right of district administrations to settle land issues and handed over to the State Agency in Kiev, formed a corruption system where between $300 and $500 per hectare of land was taken in formation. And this was collected from all over the country. Before that, everything was resolved on the spot. The crowds were served, and the district level was decided. I'm surprised we don't want to break this corrupt system by referring to the Constitution. Return to circuit councils and district administrations, stop building corruption schemes. I think we need to solve this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u68	Let me finish a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u69	When the Supreme Council meets again, when they vote in parliament, vote, transfer to the district level, and let people decide for themselves how to manage the land, how to get the funds into the local budget. And changes to the Constitution are being prepared for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u70	Please, National Deputy Catherinechuk. One minute, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u71	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. The very idea of decentralization is, first of all, the transfer to the locations of all the issues related to the resource base: its nadra and everything that happens in the territory to the community. Obviously, this bill could be supported by the arguments that Mr. Rudzikowski made, but before the local self-government elections, without fair, transparent elections, where every community, without the pressure of democratic elections, cannot do so. So you can find some compromise, that is, apply the law, accept the bill. But it will take effect after the elections and the decentralization reform proposed by the Fatherland faction, and there is some consensus in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u72	Please, Your Honor, we have discussed this in sufficient detail. And I understand that the Supreme Council is ready to decide whether or not to support this bill. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Please refer to the support for the draft Law on Amendments to Article 122 of the Ukrainian Land Code for clarifying the powers of the central executive authority that implements national policy in the field of land relations (registration No. 4286). Please, Your Honor, vote. [[11:25:21]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Thus, the law is rejected. The next issue, honourable national MPs, has registration number 4016 – is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in determining the structure of the Ministry of Interior. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. The head is delegating his deputy, please. Who? I'm sorry, I appointed Michael Petrovich as head. By the way, he deserves to work, but he's a deputy, I'm sorry, head of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. We have voted that all questions in the first reading are voted in favour of a reduced procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u73	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In all democratic states, issues related to the creation and operation of social units are under the strict control of civil society. At the same time, Ukraine is faced with a situation where many law enforcement structures and other power structures operate special units, created by well - known acts and not even known about the existence of civil society and Ukrainian national MPs. Therefore, these issues need an immediate legislative settlement. The functioning of such divisions, created outside the legislative framework, undermines the democratic foundations of our nation, as there is no legal basis for their activities. As you know, to this day, there has been an unfinished investigation into the killings on Sky 100. Since all these special divisions do not have a specific situation in which they are allowed to act, their responsibility is not defined. Moreover, each of these special forces had their snipers. Moreover, there are no measures to adapt them to society at the legislative level to be eliminated by the formation of such special departments. For example, the special divisions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Berkut, which was created by a prominent act of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and after the liquidation of which many employees of this special unit from Crimea, Donetsk, Lugansk, have openly crossed over to the side of the bandits and are now fighting against the Ukrainian people. Therefore, the Ukrainian bill to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in determining the structure of the Ministry of Interior, registration number 4016, is intended to ensure the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council regarding the definition of the structure of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the legislative settlement of the activities of special departments and military parts of the special mission of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The aim is proposed by making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Police Act concerning the changes made to the Ukrainian Internal Forces Act, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u74	Allow me to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u75	Since there are no internal forces today, we will consider this when preparing the project for second reading. At its 5.3.14th meeting, the committee decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This consideration in the first reading is to be taken as a basis. In view of this, I propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill on the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performances. National Deputy Osaulenko, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Mishchenko Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u78	Please turn on the microphone of the Mishchenko People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u79	Andrew Mishchenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, in principle, the novels in this bill are the right thing to do, but in our opinion, we should point out that now is a very different time than a year ago, rather than six months ago. Ukraine is now at war with the Russian occupying party and we have some questions about this bill, which is that the Supreme Council has to approve a number of special assignment units, and if it doesn't do so, special assignment units can only be the Cabinet of Ministers for three months. Instead, given that the Supreme Council does not always work effectively, and the pro-Russian majority, who now sits in the Supreme Council, cannot always vote for the creation of special units, it turns out that every day throughout Ukraine a division of territorial defence is formed into battalions that are part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and within three months, they will automatically be eliminated. In this way, it undermines the fighting spirit of our Ukrainian volunteers who are now fighting in the Luhansk and Donetsk region. Accordingly, we take away the legislative basis for their formation. So, second moment. We're talking about the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Now there's no such unit, instead of creating the National Guard, there's already a discrepancy in Ukrainian legislation. At the same time, the establishment of a standard for the establishment of temporary special police units, for a maximum of three months, will not contribute to the strengthening of such units. Suitable forms.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u80	Let me finish, let me speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u81	In view of the foregoing, we find it inappropriate to vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u82	I got the offer. Please, People's Deputy, Strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u83	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to say a little bit to our colleagues at the Freedom Party and explain what this is about. We're talking about the following special units that will be created in this session room by us, voted, because we are now a parliamentary-presidential state that has to control the formations that will be created within us. Let's think about the events on Maidan. Any, at that point, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, according to the political quota that was then, the political power created different departments. We're talking about what we need to see in a transparent way is the creation of new special units. And it should be known not only by Parliament but also by the entire Ukrainian people. And what my colleague Mishchenko was talking about right now. We voted for military formations that now defend the interests of our state in the ATO zone. It's about the National Guard. Yes, we have supported them and will support all those who now defend the integrity, unity and sovereignty of our nation. But we are now talking about the special military formations that will be created in the future. Please be supportive. And the faction of the political faction of impact will support this bill. And I ask all my colleagues in this room to support this bill. We are talking about the future that Parliament and the Ukrainian people should know what military units will be created for us. And we have to control their activities. We should start and be transparent in our activities. And the specifics should also be transparent. And the whole Ukrainian people should know about them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u84	Please, National Deputy Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to give the floor to the National Deputy of Dudenkov of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u86	Turn on the microphone of the people's MP, Dudenkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u87	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Regrettably, it should be noted that the consideration of these bills is a clear indication that the authors of this bill may not be using such details, which is either contradictory or contrary to any of the draft laws that are being considered in the plenary room, to the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine. I also said in previous cases that we should still do our legal work. Yes, the Supreme Council can perform control functions. But how do we, the Supreme Council, like the people who are here, who are far away many of them, I don't want anyone to say any offensive things to someone, how can they set up a special unit of the militia? What can they do about permanent locations? I believe that this bill is a strong evidence of gross interference with the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 22, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine determines the overall structure, number, of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Let's get out of this. In the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I hope there are qualified professionals who determine accordingly what the structure should be, which should be a quantity warehouse, and more where they should settle at all. Why is this bill being considered? That's absurd. I don't know, we will. This bill is actually going to block the creation of one or the other units. The adoption of the law is a very long process. It's inclusion in the agenda, the first reading, committeeing. These questions may need to be addressed immediately, such as at the present time. And we're just going to slow down the Ministry of Internal Affairs. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u88	I understand the faction's position. Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. Honorable Society, Honorable Voters! The bloody, bitter, tragic pages, the latest pages of our history, I think, have convinced us once again that we, as representatives of the Ukrainian people, who represent the interests of the entire Ukrainian society here, must not be released from our control by the forces. And the fact that, during the Dignity Revolution, no platoon has moved to the side of the insurgent people is another proof that we have completely turned our backs on the problem. What is the control function? Here's my predecessor who's been speaking, something here suggests that there's no need to interfere, let them decide for themselves. That's what they've done. You know, in Berkut, there were a couple of platoons in the Berkut, a couple of mouths that were specially prepared. They were gangs of thugs, people who were ready, specially picked up, worked with, psychologists. They were the ones who then shot at peaceful people, their compatriots. Because of this, it was evident that a mistake had been made at the time that Parliament had allowed Kuchma to launch the National Guard. It was a patriotic segment of Ukrainian law enforcement, defense. I remember when Chefs, the general who was in charge of the National Guard at the time. There was the flower of the Ukrainian people, the ones who came back from the distant traps that were serving somewhere in Central Asia, there in Russia and wanted to return to Ukraine, they all went to the National Guard. Because of this, I am leading you to this, your honorary colleagues, that we must regulate all these things at the legislative level. What are these units? What do they do? Because of this, I am convinced that in the first reading, this test of law can be adopted. But of course, it needs to be worked out and made clearer and clearer. But this is our sacred duty. It's a shame if he doesn't make it in the first one today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u90	Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u91	Dear friends, we have a lot to talk about democracy, and one of the key principles of democracy is the principle of the distribution of power over separate branches into legislative, executive, court. I have always been a proponent and advocate for the powerful powers of the legislative body of the Supreme Council. But at the same time, we can't look like usurper. I realize that these trends are now strong enough and noticeable in Ukraine. But another branch of authority cannot be usurped. Clearly, the questions we want to ask are the question of ministers. Then let's not have ministers, then we'll determine what the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Justice, and so on. Well, I can still agree with my colleague Dudenkov, well, you can't clearly violate the Constitution, you can't break it at all. Can it be done, can it be done, and cannot it be done? I don't think anyone can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed the issue and we can now express ourselves by voting in favour of this law. I would like to remind you that we are now discussing Law 4016, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the design of the Ministry of Interior. Please, Your Honor, determine how this law is supported by a vote. Please vote on the basis, i.e. in the first reading, I remind you, we are voting on these laws. Please, based on 4016. Please vote. [[11:40:07]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The factions are required, aren't they? You don't have to. Yes, dear colleagues, next question. And before I go to him, I'm very much asking the national MPs not to part. Let's finish the whole day's work and we're still very important apart from the day's work, and then we'll go on a little later, and then after the break, we'll have "Rizzle." Is there no objection? Thank you for your support. Please, National Deputy Karpuntsov Valeriy Vitaliyovich has the desire and inspiration to report a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the guarantees of legitimate professional activity of journalists. Please, Valery Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u93	Respectable citizens, colleagues, and above all right now, respected journalists. I'm addressing you, and I'd like to draw your attention to the Hall, to your attention to those deputies who are in the Hall and to those deputies who will be actively involved in the discussion and decision-making on this issue. On behalf of the faction, I am grateful to all honest journalists who have been faithfully, honestly, risking their lives lately, sadly, risking their lives and health. The bill was registered on January 24, 2004. You remember how during the Dignity Revolution, how many times journalists were beaten, their property destroyed, and their kidnapping. And unfortunately, in all these shameful facts, government officials took part. Fortunately, in the Constitution, we have the 34th article that guarantees citizens the right to collect, disseminate, and this right is realized by journalists, fortunately, there is a Constitution. Unfortunately, however, in legislation we have the right guarantees, such guarantees that are not foreseen in Europe. The Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers has clearly recommended that national governments guide their activities and policies with regard to the protection of journalists working under conflict and pressure, and apply them without restriction and discrimination, with any indication of foreign or local journalists. Unfortunately, today, these issues, the security of journalists, have not lost their relevance, they will never lose it for those journalists who honestly, professionally and professionally implement their professional skills, abilities, or willingness to expose those or other corruptions that we regret to have flourished in the country. And it is the work of a journalist today that is the weapon, and that is the part of the means that helps, including, to fill the budget. Because the discovery of corruption is exactly what makes it possible for these funds to target the development of our nation. Of course, the recommendations of the Council of Europe are clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u94	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u95	It is clearly indicated that the State must ensure the safety of journalists by introducing special sanctions. I would also like to draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council, or perhaps the head of the Board of Directors, to this conclusion, which was drawn by specialists who were preparing. This conclusion, it is not professional, it is not professional, it is important to pay attention to those workers. Because it is not necessary to set special standards to protect journalists, they seem not professional, not even professional. So what does this bill propose? It is proposed to impose special sanctions for threats or violence against a journalist, including if such threats or violence are committed by a law enforcement officer or by an official, special sanctions for intentional destruction, property damage, assault on a journalist’s life, capture of a journalist as a hostage. Well, still, I think the journalists all got acquainted with this project and wanted our country to have quality and professional protection of journalists, as well as quality and professionally honest journalists doing their professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u96	Is there a need to discuss this? Yes. Wait, I see how many hands have been raised. Please sign in. People's MP Mirny, Freedom faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u97	Please pass the word to Galina Black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u98	Please turn on the microphone of the Black People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u99	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! Of course, those processes that take place in society depend in many ways on how journalists explain them. There's this saying, "what the world sees with the eyes of journalists," and that's why a society that wants to be called a democratic one that wants to make positive changes, it has to protect its journalists, especially those journalists who want to do their job honestly, and explain the events truthfully. Of course, we all remember how difficult it was for journalists to perform their professional duties on the cold Maidan during the Dignity Revolution. We remember the footage when journalists were literally washed with Bransboyt water, we remember the footage of the bloody faces of journalists, we remember that they were taken away by cameras with footage taken from them by their professional cameras. And that's why it's really important that we vote for this bill today. And the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will certainly support it. After all, the bill was submitted in January. Today, we see that he has not lost his relevance. Because those events in the East showed that it is no less difficult for journalists today to carry out their professional duties than it was during the Dignity Revolution. And we already have those journalists who were in captivity, we have those journalists who were injured, and we certainly need to protect them and protect them especially from physical influence. We see that today the war that is in the East of Ukraine is not just a war with weapons, it is also an information war. And that's why I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u100	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u101	And so by protecting journalists, we will be able to protect those of our soldiers who are now in the information war that will be fighting in the information war with Russia. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u102	People's MP Motchov is handing over the word to the People's Deputy Kaplin of "BITCH."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u103	Dear citizens, dear colleagues, I would very much ask that this very important bill be voted not now in the semi-empty room, until they have accepted my amendment to the Constitution to deprive the Ukrainian National Deputies of their mandate for five disgraceful walks, but they have accepted when there is a full room and when each national defender has the opportunity to vote in favour of this bill, and above all, honourable colleagues, for the freedom of speech and the ability of millions of Ukrainian citizens to know the truth of what is happening today in Ukrainian society. This bill is unique and revolutionary. What he's critical of science and science is a somewhat flawed, distorted position. He foresees special standards of the Criminal Code that can protect Ukrainian journalists. We all know that there are three branches of authority in Ukraine. But I thought, I think, and I will always consider the main branch and the most honest light the real Ukrainian people can rely on, the fourth branch of power, the Ukrainian journalists. And I'm joining your team. I'm starting a big project with a couple of channels called "The People's Attorney's Office with Sergey Kaplin." We come to every corruptionist, every deputy, every bribe minister, every person who feeds on taxes and shows his real life, we show those schemes that allow his children to work, learn abroad, get profits, act on Ukrainian law, play on Ukrainian citizens. And with you and our strike faction, and with those who join this project, we will win. We will defeat ignorance, conquer corruption, win forever, and gain a great opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u104	Yavorowski National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I cannot take bread to the head guard of freedom of speech in the Ukrainian Parliament of Mikli Tomenka. That's why I'm giving him the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Aleksandrovitch Yavorowski, who is equally concerned with the protection of rights, freedoms, and journalists, including. Thank you to Valérie Karpuntsov, who has translated our theoretical discussions into practical rules of law, because, indeed, the situation that occurred during Middan was a situation in which we proved to be completely unprepared in the legal sense, because we thought that the criminal code of criminal responsibility for obstructing the professional activities of journalists was a necessary and sufficient condition to respond adequately to crimes or aunts, or law enforcement agencies that either beat the head or hold hostages or shoot at the side of the journalist. But it turns out that when we started to control every criminal case, it's not easy to make the general formulation of criminal cases end because the general formula of obstruction -- it's completely unclear in the Criminal Code. And what the author of the bill, Valérie Karpuntsov, has clearly stated, coming out of European norms, is that we understand that there are obstacles to professional activity, particularly from the sad experience we have had during mass action, and today this sad experience in relation to journalists is spreading to the east of Ukraine. And it should be understood that, let's say those or the mercenaries who came from Russia, or the Ukrainian traitors who take hostages of journalists, should also fall under the article of the Criminal Code on obstructing journalistic activity. Because today, among the hostages and captives, there are a large number of public volunteer activists and journalists. But the law is unforgivable. So I think it's logical in the first reading to approve so that we can agree on some of the rules and vote in general. And finally, once again, I support Valery, and I'm worried about Alexander Valentinovich, the science and science department. It seems like the war hasn't reached the Supreme Council's apparatus yet, because what they're saying here is that we're living in the 22nd century.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u107	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u108	That we live in a peaceful, European, prosperous country. Yesterday we'd have to look at it, and I think in a week we'll consider a bill of simplified procedure that allows Nakrad to quickly turn off the temporary channels as they sow aggression, international hostility. And the science-expert department wrote that since the words "to create a real danger of territorial integrity" are not very clear, the bill should be rejected. Let the Russian channels lie, let them tell, because our great theorists in the machine, they didn't like the word "real danger." Karpuntsov didn't like the words, friends, but we need to have a little conscience. There's a war out there, so we're playing terminology. So we vote in our first reading and do our best to protect our journalists in our territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Herman, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u110	Dear friends! In Ukraine, it's not formal, but de facto, another battalion is active, it's the Ukrainian information battalion. And this is the only battalion that should not have commanders. It's a good thing the MPs want to go home with the press, show it. But MPs have to understand one thing, it's the journalists themselves who have to decide, and journalists have to have that right. In the information battalion, there can be no commanders, there are all equal rights, everyone has the same rights, and everyone has the freedom to ask not only questions that dictate the severity of military time, but the questions that the journalist considers necessary. Moreover, I would ask the President of Ukraine, when he rewards the battalion's fighters for their victory, not to forget the fighters of the Ukrainian information battalion, because their victory and their courage and the dangers that these people face are no less than all the dangers that all the people who are enduring today in Ukraine are facing from war. And I would ask all of us to remember that authorities are changing, but the basics, journalists, should not change. The Journalist Battalion should never be a servant of any authority; the Journalist Battalion should always ask awkward questions, unpleasant questions, because there are no stupid questions to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u111	One minute from the non-fractional, please, Oleg Lazko and from "For Peace and Stability" will be able to speak to Opanaschenko, the National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u112	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, as you know. For many years, I worked as a journalist, an opposition journalist to the then Kuchma government, and that is why today. As an MP, I try to understand journalists and support them, because without independent journalism there will be no free civil society and there will be no, after all, honest politics. And that's why I support this bill, but I asked that word to go to my colleague, who is sitting there, hiding from the Sofia journalists of Taisia Povali. My lady, I have a question for you. Why are you sitting there so silently? Would you like to come out to this rostrum and tell us why you are singing to the occupying Russian forces? Why are you celebrating in Moscow, thanking them? Why do you say that money is more valuable to you than patriotism and citizenship? That's why I'm asking you to give me a mandate. I don't think you have it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have just considered the law, the last speech. And please prepare for the vote. People's MP Opanaschenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, distinguished journalists! I would like to emphasize that journalists have actually become another political component of our country and our lives in Ukraine. And journalists are as easily as they can raise a nation against breaking the law, so they can calm down in the state, and bring peace and harmony. It is they who form the basic part of public opinion. I would like to say that it's very good that the responsibility for crimes against journalists is increasing. A journalist has to have in our country, to explain, unbiased exposure, I think, is the same MP as the MPs are untouchable. Similarly, he must have certain guarantees that if he is working under difficult conditions, under wartime conditions, he has a secure family. That's why this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u115	Please finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u116	This law is quite important. But I would like to make such an amendment here that it is necessary to accept that if the MPs allow themselves to display such a masculinity and murder journalists so that they are not touched. It has been very sad to see the events that have taken place in our country in recent times. That's why I think the law is very important, and it needs to be accepted and ensured that journalists are as untouched as the MPs are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, I will remind you that we will now consider the issue in the first reading, that is, we will vote on the basis. The author of the law, National Deputy Karpuntsz, is very much asking for a signal vote now to determine whether this law can be supported. Please, dear fellows. Let's vote on the support of this law. Please vote. [[11:59:43]] For a hundred and Unfortunately, only 192. The factions, please. "Paternity" – 58, 7 – regions, "PART" – 31, 3 – "Economic development", 6 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", 30 – "For Peace and Stability" – non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I think I'm being supported by the national MPs so that we can make this decision in the next plenary week. No objections? Because the important question is that we also need to support our fellow journalists. It's fundamentally important. Dear colleagues, I'm asking all deputies to come to the session room, everyone. Please make an announcement to the Secretaries. While the MPs were meeting, the national deputy of Yavorowski approached me and asked for support without discussion on the draft decree marking the 90th anniversary of the birth of Paul Zagreb. Dear colleagues, 3483 can we support you? I think it's very important. Let's not discuss that we should celebrate the 90th anniversary of this great son of the Ukrainian people. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. And I would like to support the Supreme Council's draft decree on the 90th anniversary of the birth of Paul Zagreb. I'm asking you for a basis as a whole. Everyone, your honor, please vote. Let's support it. Please, colleagues, everyone, let's vote. [[12:01:23]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 61 – Fatherland, 16 – Region, 30 – Impact, 5 – Economic Development, "North European Ukraine" – 5, 35 – "Freedom", 28 – "For Peace and Stability", non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, we have enough, I see on the monitor, we can change the Constitution -- so many people's deputies are registered now. And we can't vote. Please, let's try to vote again. Please, Your Honor, support the entire draft of the decree marking the 90th anniversary of the birth of Paul Zagreb. Please, Your Honor, let's all support our classics. Please vote everyone. Please, on the basis and in general. [[12:02:20]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. We made a decision. And now, dear colleagues, I want you, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again. Can we vote on journalists? Come on. Just for everyone to vote, dear colleagues. Let's talk about journalists: 4013. I was inspired. Dear colleagues, come on, I see, not with your hands, let's vote with the buttons. Please 4,013 in the first reading, that is, on the basis. Please, Your Honor, back up as inspired as we have just voted. Please, 4013, please vote. Let's protect our journalists. [[12:03:20]] For 232 [[Applause]] Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please don't break up. A very important question, however, is how we have now begun to vote qualitatively. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that I've received a letter, I can even show you from the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko. And according to this letter, he insists that we immediately identify ourselves with a sense of confidence in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. You know, I assigned the Supreme Council Secretariat and the Law Institute, they worked very hard at night, and unfortunately, we have neither in the Constitution nor in the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. That's why I understand what it means to have honourable colleagues appoint the Supreme Council on the application for resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Yeah? Is that what you mean? You see, there are experts who understand what it means. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm informing you. According to my information, the application went to the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers. As soon as it reaches the Supreme Council, it will be registered and immediately, immediately, directed to the profiling committee. And the committee will certainly bring this matter to the session room. I will control strictly how this issue is being considered. But that's not all, dear colleagues, in the President's letter. There's a last paragraph, which I think is very important, with some of the speaking national MPs talking about it. I read, "I'm underlining the urgent need for July 25 (by the way, today) to go back to the question of changing the State Budget and the Tax Code. These changes, my dear colleagues, we need both to protect territorial integrity and finance the army and to restore territories freed from terrorists and to help the peaceful inhabitants of the affected cities, villages and villages." That's right, dear fellows. I very much ask you now, now, honourable colleagues, to vote and put into the agenda. You know, what we can do, we're doing right now. And the President demands that today, on July 25th, we return to this issue. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the proposal and vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine to improve certain provisions. Dear colleagues, you remember that the Minister of Finance has given us very detailed information about this issue, its importance, because without these changes, we will not be able to provide the income portion of the budget and properly fund those expenses that the Prime Minister spoke of yesterday in his vivid statement, and the President of Ukraine says in his letter. Please, Your Honor, vote. It's a day-to-day inclusion. What procedure? Integrating into the agenda. You can vote at least 10 times. Please, dear colleagues, this is registration number 4309a. Please vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. Please vote. [[12:07:22]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 68, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 34, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 2, Freedom – 35, Peace and Stability – 30, non-fractional – 16. Dear colleagues, I also ask now that there be no charges that I have not put everything to the vote, to return to the question of amending some of Ukraine's laws on reforming the administration system of Ukraine's only gas transport system. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this question. Please vote. [[12:08:19]] For 124 The decision, unfortunately, is not adopted. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Parenthood - 71, Party of Regions - 0,31 - Impact, 7 - Economic Development, 0 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 - Freedom, For Peace and Stability - 3, non-fractional - 12. Dear colleagues, you and I have tried to fix the situation. Unfortunately, we did not support the President's proposal. And I think that the problems that we have today can certainly be the result of the fact that we don't have a majority today that is capable of taking responsibility. At the same time, my dear colleagues, at the same time, I am convinced that the right thing to do is to continue our work, and now the break for half an hour is being announced. After the break, it's "Crazy." Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] No breaks? Dear colleagues, don't you have a break? No breaks. Dear colleagues, I apologize, i.e. one for the break, the other for the break. Please take half an hour off, please. Let's get back to work at 12 o'clock, 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Considering that you and I have already spoken practically the entire agenda, we are moving on to the next item in the section "Variance." I think this is exactly the time we're going to use for your speeches, suggestions and announcements. I'd like everyone to sign up for the presentation in the section "Victory." Please. Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Kudru. Commits the right to speak to Opanaschenkov. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I want to make a statement on a bill that aims to change the tax system that exists in us in Ukraine. Everyone knows what is going on in the country and what is going on. So together, we all need to take advantage of the opportunity and create conditions for our businesses and businesses to be able to work freely and pay taxes. We all know what a corrupt VAT tax is. And each of the ministers, before they take office, makes a promise to change the VAT, cancel and replace it with any other tax. But as soon as he reaches office, he forgets all his promises. I brought in my colleagues on the initiative of the Liberal Party of Ukraine Bill 4855, which aims at tax reform. It calls for the cancellation of this same corrupt VAT, a reduction in the total tax burden to 15 percent. This is proposed to pay a tax on the removal of cash from circulation. And the exclusion in this case will pay the tax. This will make tax checks unnecessary. There is nothing for the state to check for enterprises, their cost when it has not put a penny in the private sector. This is all the survival of the Soviet Union, when the general economic sector was all state-owned, then the state tested them. Company checks are now the reason for corruption. And we'll never get through them. Fiscal methods will not help us to improve our investment in Ukraine. And we need entrepreneurs to be able to pay their employees a high salary. We need to create conditions for investing in Ukraine to be easy, easy and accessible to everyone. Now, a person who wants to become an entrepreneur has to ensure that a large state of human being is kept in order to withstand these checks by taxpayers, and that's unfortunately a large amount, and not every small enterprise can provide it. So I propose to support Bill 4855. It is now very relevant, it completely changes the tax system and makes Ukraine easy to invest. We have a fictional stockholder company, if you don't own all your own business, you can't own shares there, because you have a double accounting. And this is very important for our country. We suggest that the tax system be changed. This will make Ukraine attractive to investment, allowing small ones to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u120	Thank you. If you'll excuse me for a moment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u121	It will give small entrepreneurs a boost to development and enable them to raise the minimum wage, up to 25 dollars an hour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u122	Please enter the parliamentary rostrum, and the People's Deputy Kozub will pass on his right to speak to the People's Deputy of Gruszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! The Honorable Society of Ukraine! Yesterday there was a black event in Ukrainian society -- a coalition called "European Choice" broke up. I'm broken up, I'm afraid. And what does that say? That the political forces had decided not to take responsibility for all the promises made, speeches made, and so on, without reporting to society what had been done. Did people get rights in the territory of administrative, financial rights, what was done? Unfortunately, we did not receive any answers. And the coalition has a great responsibility to Ukrainian society. Parliament has never been homogeneous. There were different thoughts, different suggestions, and they can't be, everyone has a right to think. But this idea should be introduced in a democratic way, not as in today, unfortunately, it is. We have a Parliament that has become a dictatorship of several political powers. And they think they're the political forces that support them all of Ukraine. We'll see about that. But that's what we're going to the election with? What bill? What will Ukraine’s society gain when it comes to military action in the east today, when every Ukrainian family has suffered a disaster, a ruined economy? This is a big question and a big job that had to be done and done immediately in the Ukrainian Parliament. If the Prime Minister makes a statement, that says what? That he was unable to unite people in Parliament. In the seventh call, parliament has representatives from all over Ukraine and it is necessary to communicate with every national MP, to propose programmes to come out of the economic and political crisis, and above all to stop the war and destruction of the Ukrainian state. Today, no citizen can be protected either from private armies or from national MPs. There are no laws today. And when prosecutors, by the way, in the Cherka district of the prosecutor's office, were stolen from Ruslan Olijnik's office on car numbers belonging to the Cherkas District Council. Neither the police nor the Attorney General respond! Ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about, what elections?Oh, my God! Today we need to establish a sure act of law, today we need to return to the Geneva Agreements, today we need to communicate, not engage in agitation!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u124	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u125	divide people by color, and one goal is to stop the war and start building a new Ukraine, as the president said. The new Constitution, the new administrative reform, the new Tax Code, and more importantly, as we go to Europe, we have to protect people. So we're going to ask the European Parliament to look at how they are today and who have the rights of the opposition forces. And they have these people who have a different opinion, but united in order to be protected and able to join and work for the unification of our Ukrainian independent state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u126	Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Irina Farion. I'd like to prepare for the People's Deputy Philipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a strange society that doesn't call things its names: the war is called "ATO," which is why the war is going on and the end isn't seen. But there is another problem in our society: we are afraid to even say that we belong to the fact that we are Ukrainians. My colleague, Alexander Shevchenk, and I have appealed to the government in effect to abolish the disgraceful Order of September 12, 2002 on the approval of copies of civil registration books and descriptions of forms of testimony issued by the civil registration authorities. According to this shameful decree, the birth certificate and the adoption certificate accounted for the nationality of the parents, and the marriage certificate accounted for the nationality of the couple. Then we remember that there was a decision of the Supreme Council, namely, a decree of 92 years in order for the adoption certificate and the marriage certificate to clearly state the nationality of the marriage and the nationality of the child. This has been canceled specifically so that we do not call ourselves who we are in our passports. Let me remind Confucius once again: "if we don't call something what it is, we are in a state of chaos and disorder." The Ukrainians have largely acknowledged that they are homeless. And actually this war that we now have in the Luhansk and Donetsk region is the result of a deep identity crisis. But all the horror is that I got a document of a remarkable incompetence from Paul Petrenko's current Minister of Justice, that the return of the Count of Nationality to passport, the return of the Count of Nationality to the birth certificate and the marriage certificate, you know what it really is, could become a burden. It turns out that there is a burden on this Ukrainian land of who you are. So, logically, all of these enquiries that are in our parliament, all of these whines, yucks, yucks, all of these "shushes" and "ski" are turning into "retropical settlements" in our nation, which makes it impossible to build a national Ukrainian state. We don't need a globalistic mission with a cosmopolitan European cream. We need a Ukrainian, Ukrainian central state. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education only works.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u128	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u129	It is absolutely encouraging, an unprecedented response from Petrenko, to try not to take away these books from the history of Ukraine, which instilled in the Ukrainians a complex of malracialism. Perhaps because of this, the Ministry of Education is still acting as director of the Institute of Ukrainian Science, which is a classical Ukrainianophobic who has been making her scientific career in monographs aimed solely at the Ukrainian national idea. So until our society realizes that we have to build a real nation-centric Ukrainian state, we will not be able to see the terrible challenges that we face as an opportunity to realize.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u130	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Philippeenka? Please be prepared by the People's Deputy of Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Group of economic development, Filipenko, Poltavstina. The occasion for today's speech was the appeal, the collective appeal of the labour force and the shareholders of the Kyivo order set. At a time when there is a war going on in our country, and some of our law enforcement officers and soldiers are protecting Ukraine's territorial integrity, it seems that other law enforcement officers, who would not be called law enforcement officers, are carrying out, simply and simply, the ordinary lotion of this Motherland, which our boys are protecting. What I mean. There are almost no companies in Ukraine that can be counted on the fingers of one hand, it's a specialized enterprise, it's been operating since 1961, it's in the main business and it's the only one, it's clearing the mouth of the river, it's the companies installed on the Dnipro River, they're cleaning it up, they're giving it away. In fact, it is done that the river has its course and that when individual sand islands on the Dniper River are washed away and carried out strategic tasks to ensure that the surrounding areas are not flooded. So in this case, it's pretty interesting that over the last three years, there's been a systematic raid on one militia raid in Kiev. And what happened two years ago, unfortunately, something has accelerated a lot in recent months. Think about it, in the last 2-3 months, at a company that paid 11 million taxes last year, i.e. actually tax burden is 15 percent, and on average it is 3-4 percent. This company carried out more than 10 follow-up operations over the course of two months. Investigations were carried out without appropriate court decisions. And one of the follow-up activities was done on May 9th on the holiday day. It is not clear why it was on the day of the festival that the investigation was decided. So on July 22nd, after not getting any legal documents for the conduct of the investigation, the members of the Voice Police Department went to the Darnitski Court, and I want to say that the Darnitsky District Court was granted approval, with the participation of Judge Cimbal Inna Konstantinovna, who was supposed to be: remove the blue tractor from the company, the yellow bulldozer. And when the militias came to make decisions on this resolution, two of them, without special means or education, began to disconnect land with 6,000 volts, which were directly connected to communication. Think about what could have happened. Dear colleagues! I ask you to consider my statement as a request to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to investigate the facts of misconduct by the members of the Police Department of the Glossijov, as well as to the Higher Qualifications Commission on the investigation of the facts of the prosecution of the notoriously unjust approval of the Cimbal Other Constantinen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u132	May I have the floor of the people's representative of Chuba. His right to vote is passed on to him by the national MP of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u133	Dear Ruslan Vladimirovic, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Evgenyevich Chub, 110 Majority District, Luganskina. Every day, my countrymen, residents of the city of Alchevsk, are calling for an end to hostilities in the Luhansk region and their rights to peaceful life and to an adequate standard of living. The intensification of the anti-terrorist operation in Luhansk has taken tens of civilians in the past three weeks. In addition, many homes, transport facilities and social infrastructure have been destroyed. The town of Metallurgy, Alchevsk, where no fighting takes place, is virtually without drinking water, has suffered electricity shortages. The administration of the State Treasury Service has been suspended without legal grounds. To date, the vitality of the 110,000th city of our country has actually been paralyzed. Salary debts amount to more than 5.5 million dollars. Under threat of pension cuts of 34 million dollars and other social benefits to the population. In fact, the most socially vulnerable categories of the population remain without livelihoods: multi-child families, disabled persons, pensioners, orphans. Neither the MCS, the police nor the ambulance have the means to fuel the transport and to provide the first emergency assistance to the inhabitants of the city. I will also note that insulin, vaccines for children, onco- and mentally ill medicines have ceased to be delivered in the city. Existing stocks are not sufficient to provide appropriate treatment for these categories of patients. And this is because Alchevsk is not in any military blockade. I pay particular attention to the people's deputies and our voters that all income, fees, taxes and compulsory payments are credited to a single treasury account in full, in accordance with the Budget Code and the State Budget Act 2014. And there's not a penny from the budget to the city. As a result of the halting of the bread plant in Luhansk, the provision of bread to the citizens decreased by 50 per cent. Children's kindergartens will not be able to provide children with milk and meat products from Monday. Because of the inaction of the authorities, people leave their homes, leave the city, and quit their jobs. In Alcevsk, for example, 37 medical personnel have already been deployed. Who's going to bring these people back to town, professionals? I also warn the leadership of an anti-terrorist operation against the use of military aviation and oil fire systems in the city. Accidental shelling in the production facilities of the Alcev Metalworks or the Alcev Coxochemical Plant, where dangerous chemicals and gases are used, can cause an environmental disaster not only in Alcevsk but also far beyond it. I take this opportunity to remind the military command that, under article 3 of the Anti-Terrorism Act, the principle of the protection of the lives and health of civilians is a matter of priority for the conduct of an anti-terrorism operation. Convinced of the increase in military forces in the territory of Donbass and the increase in military action will lead to an increase in social tension. And further blocking the operations of the Treasury puts Alchevsk on the brink of a humanitarian disaster. Today, more than ever, our country is united in the desire for peace and stability. Any war always ends in peace. I therefore call on the President of the country to return to the negotiating process, to preserve the lives of our fellow citizens. I would like to consider my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance, to head the anti-terrorist centre. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u134	I'd like to invite the people's representative, Layashka, to the Chamber of Parliament. Please be prepared by the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u135	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday in Ukraine, without exaggeration, was a notable, if not a more historic day. First. A faction of the Communist Party, a criminal, a collaborative organization, ceased operations. And God grant that the walls of this Parliament will never again be turned on by Communist traitors. I hope the same fate awaits regional traitors. You see, I just had a deputy from Alcevska Chub speaking to me. There's another salesman walking around the hall, a deputy from Luhansk the Median. Have you heard from them one word of condemning terrorists, condemning the deaths of civilians, murdering Ukrainian soldiers? No, it's not. Because they support terrorists. And so in this Parliament there should be no traitors to the regionals who have sold the devil, Moscow sold their soul for a penny, and they have yet to go here and tell them that they are the national deputies of Ukraine. Similarly, one of the historical events is the beginning of yesterday's trial of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Finally, this momentous event took place. It is a disgrace that in 23 years of independence, we have not yet tried the communists who were killed during the famine during the repression of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Millions of souls, innocently murdered, cry out, look at us, and all these years have been asked to eliminate this disease, which has destroyed Ukraine and today has an intrepidity to sit in the Ukrainian Parliament. Finally, there are two important events that took place yesterday. This is the collapse of the coalition and this is Prime Minister Yatzenuk's statement of resignation. Look who gave the most applause for these events. Moscow, Duma State. That's who's happy about what's going on with the decentralization of power. Who is glad that Ukraine, which is in a state of war, has become weak? Because when we are at war, power has to be strong, government has to be legitimate. Of course, Parliament has to go to the polls because it is no longer the power to tolerate commies and regionals, these traitors, these bastards who betray their mother, their country. And that's why Parliament has to go to the polls. At the same time, however, Parliament should decide on the financing of the army. Today, our heroes from private to general protect the country. How they'll protect when there's no legitimate government, no funding for war, no anti-terrorist operation. So, I think yesterday's Prime Minister Yatzenuk's resignation statement, she's in a hurry. Arsenius, you have to keep pulling this train, you're the better Prime Minister for all 20 years of independence. You have to work and get Ukraine out of this gap, where it's driven by regionals and commies. Call off your application, Arsenius. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u136	People's MP Momoto, please. Prepare for the people's illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u137	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u138	Please continue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u139	Baby! Easy, sit down!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u140	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u141	Alexander Momot, 27th constituency, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to draw your attention to a very important question that we're going to face in the near future, in October, when the heating season begins. For many years our country has been building a gas supply system and gas is now the main source of heating. The rise in heating tariffs will hit not only the population but also the budgets of cities, villages, and villages. All the utilities, hospitals, schools, kindergartens -- almost everyone burns down with gas. In just one district of Dnipropetrovska, in my major district, 49 schools and kindergartens, and everyone is gas-burned. The 2014 budget has set 14.5 million dollars for these needs. It is understandable how difficult it will be to find these funds in the budget today. But we need to look to the future and think strategically. There is a need to reduce the cost of complex programs to save and modernize heating systems. Dnipropetrovsk has a positive experience of stimulating energy conservation projects in residential buildings that have reduced heating costs by 15-30 percent. It is good, but keeping warm is not enough. I think that the strategic solution is to switch to alternative heating systems: electricity or solid fuel. Let me give you an example. The use of one universal solid fuel boiler reduces heating costs by five times. One of these boilers is going to cost 700 or 800 thousand dollars, but it's going to save a lot of money in the future. For example, as far as my district is concerned, it's going to be the economy of almost 10 million dollars. I've been talking to local authorities in Dnipropetrovsk and we're ready to do an experiment on a few schools, organize a modernization of heating systems and install universal solid fire boilers. I'm ready to submit all the necessary paperwork to the Cabinet of Ministers. Modernization of heating systems not only reduces costs but also promotes the private sector of the economy, and there will be a need for new equipment, new heating materials, such as pellets, and more. We need to look into perspective and realize that every bracelet we put in today should lead to improved efficiency in utilities and spending tomorrow. Only this approach will speed up the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u142	I invite you to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Illenka. Please prepare for National Deputy Shipkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u143	Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, respected radio audiences, and television audiences! Today, the Kyiv City Organisation of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has been conducting a stinging of the French Embassy in Kiev, requiring France not to hand over to Russian aggressors of the Mystral helicopter, which are examples of the most modern weapons that could be used by the aggressor state, namely, the Russian Federation in its aggressive actions, including against Ukraine, and against other peaceful civilized countries. We think that this position of France, which thinks it's possible to trade and place the most advanced weapon on an aggressor, is irresponsible and highly cynical. Because it's not just about moral values, it's about violations of the European Union's legal standards, which directly prohibit the sale of weapons to countries that run aggressive foreign policies, including those that fall entirely under the current actions of the Russian Federation. You know, the last of these events, they're very sad for us when France allows itself to trade arms with an aggressor. For example, Austria, it's signing a contract with Gazprom to build the South Stream. And, of course, it looks like a suicide policy. And unfortunately, sometimes you have to mention history when in 1918-19 the country of the West, including the Antants, they helped the enemies of Ukraine and did everything to ensure that the Ukrainian People's Republic didn't win the war then, and they did everything to keep Ukraine from happening. And so, on the one hand, we need to remember history and understand modern events, but neither should we cheat on foreigners. Because in my opinion, what is happening in Ukraine today is, to a large extent, determining exactly what is going on outside. Because foreigners say why do you make us admit that you have a war with Russia if you don't officially admit it yourself? If you don't enter a state of war, if you don't formally have a war, do you just have an anti-terror operation? And here I want to address, including the President of Ukraine. Yesterday Parliament actually showed that the MP faction, including Freedom, showed that we're not holding seats, we're not afraid of the successive elections that people demand. But we feel that we must now take responsibility and declare war in the country because there is war in the country. Because if today we feel that we have no war, no local anti-terror operation, then who in the world will say that they are willing to defend Ukraine? Who will say that they are willing to take on these problems if Ukraine itself is afraid to name things by its names? That is why we demand that a state of war be established. After that, of course, parliamentary elections must be held in turn. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u144	Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Shipka. Please prepare for National Deputy Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u145	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35 constituency, Nicopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsk district Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! I regularly visit hospitals where wounded fighters are brought, and I associate with doctors who help them, saving our heroes of life. And it's from the doctors, so to speak, that I get information from my first mouth. And unfortunately, this information is not very comforting. For example, there is a critical shortage of anti - gun and anti - gangrene raw materials in hospitals. If there's one more way to find it, and the MOH is pulling the rest from all over the country, then the second is not registered in our country at all, and these are life-saving drugs. Yesterday, I met with the head of the WHO Bureau in Ukraine, Dr. We discussed the provision of supplies for the military and the civilian population in the East with the necessary drugs. And the World Health Organization is now ready to provide 300 thousand doses of anti - drugs and medical equipment specially designed to provide emergency medical care free of charge for Ukraine. And this is just the first aid that WHO can give us. They are willing to continue to help with both antigangrenosing serums and other essential drugs. Why don't we still have the drugs? Why do our fighters lose limbs from gangrene when we can really help them? Because there's no permission to import unregistered drugs in Ukraine, even though they all have quality confirmations and are too high-quality in WHO, they're the quality drugs that the whole world uses. I demand that the Cabinet of Ministers take all necessary measures immediately to address the import of aid from the global health care organization. These drugs are vital both to the fighters who protect our Caine and to the peaceful population, which also suffers from conflict. Please consider my statement as a request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Besides, honourable national deputies, I am addressing you and I am addressing the leadership of the Supreme Council. It was today that I registered Bill No.4375a amending the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices to Improve the Accessibility of Vaccines and Anatoxins. The adoption of this bill is essential to address today’s problems with vaccines. I ask him to put it to Parliament as soon as possible and to support the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u146	Here's to the speech of the People's Deputy Stoick. Prepare the People's Deputy Mikhailenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Ivan Stojko, party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Our party was recently created and is not a multi-year-old, let's say, but we Ukrainians took part in the creation of a new Ukrainian state. We were on the granite in 1990, we passed the second Maidan, this is the Orange Midan, we passed and defended the Ukrainian language on the Language Course, and of course we were all represented on the last Maidan of dignity, where our Celestial 100 was. That is why we want and want an understanding in this room today, so that there is a Ukrainian spirit and a Ukrainian idea in this room. We want our weakness not to be exploited by enemies, such as Putin and his gang, who are now fighting in Ukraine. And for us it's really painful and strange that yesterday there was a statement by the strike party. I know that Vitali Klick is proud of Ukraine, he always wins an honest fight. For me, it was a blow to your colleagues below the belt. You can’t do that without consulting your partners. But it's already happened. We need to understand today that our boys need help in the war. And so before we go to the elections, and of course we all go, Ukraine is really looking forward to this, we have to adopt the Electoral Law, we have to introduce the military state, and most of all, we have to do everything we can to get these heroes to have the right money, have what to eat, ammunition and, of course, the right weapons. Because Russia today as an aggressor will not stop or stop. If any weakness is here, it will definitely use it. And that's why yesterday's performance by Arsenius Yatsenuk may have been a performance by a new national leader. And I would like Arsenius Petrovich to draw conclusions from this situation so that he can serve Ukraine, and, I'm sure, he will serve as a real son. But today, all of us must maintain peace and unity here together, for the Ukrainian people expect us to do so. We must do everything we can to win this conquest war and to achieve the truth, the power for Ukraine. As the great Taras said, "Have wisdom, have endurance, and have respect and respect for yourselves." That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u148	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u149	Let us, therefore, be those on whom the Ukrainian people are responsible. Let us be steadfast, insurmountable, and invincible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u150	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mikhailenko. Prepare the people's deputy Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u151	Olga Mikhailenko, Communist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Yesterday, the coalition and the government demonstrated incompetence to resolve urgent issues. In a short time, dissension was sown in the state, poverty of the people, elimination of the minimum social protection. Against the backdrop of the rise in municipal payments, the price was symbolically left to pensions and wages. The Communists offered anti-crisis measures to save the economy and people of Ukraine. But the oligarchs were not before. Instead of solving economic issues, people were distracted by the terrible war that the Communist Party of Ukraine has always fought against. We lost some of the territory, and we offered to go to Crimea immediately and settle the conflict, and you didn't. When she traveled through a number of Hersonian regions, she met with the electorate. People ask us one question: When will there be peace when the mobilization is stopped? Between 30 and 40 people from every village, by the way, the sick, and the parents of many families. Let me give you an example: Sicatinsky Vladimir Mikolaiovich of Chaplinka, who has four young children. People are demanding us to realize that we are a people of one country. Mothers both south and east and west beg for one thing: not to take the lives of their children, their sons, and their parents. I got hundreds of calls. One of them, it's about the other: "The dirty boot got hit on us." It's you. There are people living behind each party. People say that this abuse of common sense, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the Supreme Council's work regulations, did not know the history of our nation. I'd like to ask you, those who have spent a year fighting against buttoning, and now they're pressing buttons for themselves and others to deal with the faction of the Ukrainian Company. Gentlemen, have you found it easier to make an illegal decision? You're thinking about finding people's trust in the communists? You're happy that you've ignored the vote of almost 3 million voters, and supported the traitors, supported political corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u152	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u153	You're political corrupts, you're being illustrated as criminals! Are you not ashamed to consider such questions when blood is shed when our children are killed? Stop the fratricidal war, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u154	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the people's representative of Dubnewich. Please prepare for the Chechtev deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u155	Dear fellow MPs! Jaroslav Dubnevich, UDA faction, 120 constituency, Lvivščina. First of all, it was you, the communists, who voted with their hands on 16 January for those short laws that led to the bloodshed on the Ukrainian field and led to the fact that the "heavenly hundred" of heroes today and died, leading to the death of your lieutenants who support secessionism in the east of Ukraine, that hundreds of Ukrainian military and peaceful citizens die in the east of Ukraine! And we don't have to learn here, away from Ukraine, the suitcase and Moscow. [[Applause]] Dear fellow MPs! Today I learned about the totally wild situation that happened to the volunteers who helped our army. As early as April, Polish border guards and customs detained the humanitarian aid collected by our volunteers in Poland, which consisted of 42 bulletproof vests and 116 helmets. The reason is because there is no license to supply such equipment. On Tuesday, July 22, the city attorney's deputy. In the Republic of Poland, he has transferred Ukrainian volunteers from the status of witnesses to the status of the accused, threatens them all, threatens them, think of it, to 10 years in prison for violating customs legislation, specifically for equipment, and this equipment will be destroyed. I've had this subject up and down and down again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and again and The boys are accused of serious crimes, with serious prison terms for trying to help their country. Simple heroes save our country with you at the cost of their lives, while other indifferent citizens desperately try to protect them. And our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing some incomprehensible write-offs and is referring to extremely confusing norms of international law. I would like to emphasize that all of this could have been avoided if the government had made an official letter to the relevant authorities of the neighbouring state, only to count this product as humanitarian aid and that it would be handed over to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. That's what I'm talking about, and I'm also a member of the Lviv Group, and we're asking officials from the beginning of March, as soon as the Murach volunteer work started on the border. All our appeals and appeals have been ignored, and today we have this result. Dear Mr. Klimkin! Wake up and move! Such a question is intolerable and shameful! I demand that you immediately make every effort to address this absurd situation, with immediate information to Parliament and the public about the results. And please, mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u156	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u157	Please consider my statement to be an official address to Prime Minister Yatzenuk and Minister of Foreign Affairs Klimkin. Thank you for your attention and the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u158	The Chechetov National Deputy is invited to attend. Please be prepared by the National Deputy Sekh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u159	Dear voters! The peace and integrity of the state, the integrity of the state and peace are the basis on which the wise state policy must be built. If we are talking about a policy that fits Ukraine’s strategic national interests, only such a policy can transform Ukraine into a real subject of the international community. Today, ordinary people in the west and in the east of Ukraine are fiercely demanding that politicians of all levels and the authorities bring back to the people what they have shamelessly taken away from them: peace, peace, harmony and stability. Because these fundamental values are based on the success and prosperity of the state, its dynamic economic growth and its conversion to human well - being. Every military action always ends in peace. The question is, how much peace is being achieved, how many human destinys, how many lives have there been, including peaceful citizens -- women, the elderly, the children have been overrun by war? The mind reminds us that we need to tear down the stop-screen as soon as possible and stop the train of war. And in this way, save thousands of lives. In addition, industry and social infrastructure are being destroyed in the area of combat. Homes, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, and so forth Instead, Donbas is the industrial heart of the country. And since this heart beats rhythmically, how healthy the state’s economic body looks, and today’s Donbas arrhythmia already gives experts reason to build pessimistic predictions. This is a 7-8 percent drop in GDP this year. Estimated inflation by year is up to 30 percent. A high price jump for residential services, transportation costs, medicines and medicines, food and services. The rise in unemployment, the devaluation of bracelets, the sharp decline in social pay, the freezing of wages, and pensions. In addition, billions of dollars are needed to rebuild social infrastructure in destroyed cities and villages, and we are facing autumn and winter. In addition, roads, bridges, and industrial enterprises need to be restored. And these are jobs. But it's impossible to rebuild and build in combat. Accordingly, the sooner the long - awaited peace on the long - suffering Donetsk land, the sooner we heal painful wounds in the eastern regions. European leaders also support the complete cessation of both sides of the fire and the restoration of the negotiating process. The position of the leaders of France and Germany is especially vivid. That's understandable. European countries, taking into account their national interests, are not comfortable with both the military fire in Ukraine, which threatens to cross over to their European countries and the imposition of economic sanctions on the third level against Russia. Because this boomerang is going to hit their national economies. Therefore, the main focus of government activities should not be the Kalashnikov machine, but diplomacy should be the negotiations and consultations. Only this can lead to peace, by peaceful means, at the minimum loss of both military and civilian citizens. Enough blood! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u160	Please come to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Sekh. Please prepare for National Deputy Kurpilev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u161	Respectable Society! Every day we learn sad statistics, unfortunately, about our war losses: the dead, the wounded, the captives. According to the leader of the negotiating group, Colonel General Vladimir Ruban's number of soldiers, civilians, madan activists who are trapped in illegal armed formations ranges from 200 to 400. There are also reports that today 40 volunteers from all over Ukraine are in captivity in eastern Ukraine. As we know, the Ministry of Defence has set up a working group on the organization of the liberation of Ukrainian Armed Forces. But it seems that this working group is not working too effectively. I was contacted by members of the military. Taras Matvisov. To continue his ministry, he was directed, but he did not arrive at his destination. From the words of the army’s sister, unknown persons removed him from the train in Donetsk while following him to the new duty station. Valérie Vinogradov was sent from a military hospital in the city of Lviv to his military area in the city of Kalinov in the district of Lviv. The situation of the disappearance and detection of military personnel in the captivity of the militants is evidence of their abduction, particularly from territories free of active military activities involving terrorists. This indicates the possible existence of an open and active agency of separatist anti-government forces throughout Ukraine, particularly in the Western region. In reviewing all of this, it is good not only to talk about the consequences and the necessary operational arrangements for the release but also about warning situations when soldiers are easily removed from the separatist train. Well, once this has happened, the state, the authorities, all the security services, so I'm going to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General, the negotiating group, they have to do everything they can to get the Ukrainians out of captivity, because sometimes it's worse than death. In doing so, it is wise to act immediately, not to lose a moment, for every day in captivity can be the last for someone. Praise the heroes and glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u162	Welcome to the Parliamentary Chamber of People's Deputies, Kurpil. Please prepare for the People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u163	Stepan Kurpil, Fatherland faction, electoral district 124, Sokal, Czervonograd, Lvivščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, except for disturbing messages from the front, sometimes tragic messages in Ukraine are also positive events related to peaceful life, and I would like to talk about an event that has to do with Ukraine’s European future. A month ago, in Lviv, in the Sokal region of the village of Ugriniv, the largest in the border of Ukraine-EU was the International Pass of Ugrins-Dolgobichov. We've been trying to figure it out for a long time, and it finally happened. The full functioning of this new entry point from Ukraine to Europe will have a positive impact on the development of infrastructure in Lithuania, including in Sokaland, creating new jobs and helping us to integrate more quickly into the European Union. Yet there is one but. This checkpoint cannot function fully because there is no normal road from Lviv to it. In particular, these are sections of the R-15 Sosnevka road, the Red Mountains, the Socals and the Ugrins. On more than one occasion, the locals blocked the road, we turned to various institutions, there were MPs, there were inquiries. However, the road still resembles a wartime bombing. Dear friends! This is also a mining area. Such a state of road in the Redwater region poses a threat to the normal functioning of mines, and miners cannot get to work on time. At the initiative of the Red City Council and the Sokal District Council, I also asked a group of deputies from Lviv to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make this section of road R-15 "Zovva-Redograd-Sokal" and the point of entry international to grant it that status. I am very much asking the government, the prime minister who is in charge, and to draw the President's attention to this. Please describe my statement as a parliamentary address to the President and to the acting Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u164	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy, Levchenko? Please prepare for the people's representative of Tabalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u165	Olga Levchenko, Communist Party of Ukraine, city hero of Kiev. Respectable voters! Today and from this day forward, I will always address you precisely, because it is you Ukrainians who, in accordance with the Constitution and common sense, can and must address all the fundamental issues of the Power. The Communist Party is currently under severe pressure from the new authorities, which has undertaken in any way to close the mouth of the only opposition party that has spoken and will speak the truth. Our truth is that Ukraine needs only one thing right now: peace. This is essential for the real, and most important for the future, for each of you understands the human losses that the Ukrainian people are now suffering. I'm sure we're supported by the East people who live under shells, and we can't call it normal life right now. We are also supported by mothers whose children are forced to be mobilized, including the additional one voted by the majority in Parliament the day before. We therefore insist once again on an immediate end to war and a peaceful solution to issues in the East. Now, here's to the next one. The Coalition in the Supreme Council declared its dissolution, requiring an immediate reload. But first, none of the politicians and lawyers will now give a clear answer as to the rules under which the elections will be held. Of course, representatives of the majority, in the current composition of the majority, can quietly enact the relevant laws, including as expressed by the representative of the Fatherland, that elections can also be held during hostilities. So the East people will be deprived of their right to choose, as recently as was the case during the presidential elections? The Communist Party is categorically opposed to such a scenario. But even if you, the people's deputies of the majority, continue your decision to re-election, find the courage to at least abolish those anti-national laws that have made the Ukrainians' lives worse. I mean, the abolition of medical reform, which has destroyed the entire medical industry, and this is the Compartia Bill No. 2661. I am referring to a shameful pension reform that has deferred Ukraine's right to enjoy well-deserved rest for five years, namely, the Compartia Law 4063-1. I wish to recall that on 27 March this year, the Supreme Council passed the Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster. The law abolished payments, maternity allowances for up to 3 years of age, and the last copies were taken from them. So you, gentlemen of the former coalition, can vote for dissolution, for self-refoulement, but at the same time find the courage to admit that you have passed anti-national laws and repeal them. And I'll tell the political pygmies that the Communist Party has been, will be, and will be. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u166	Before you know it, I'd like to invite the people's representative of Tabalov. Please prepare for the National Deputy Ilikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u167	Andrew Tabalov, Economic Development Group, city of Kirovograd. Dear colleagues, I would like to urge all of us to leave our emotions and really look at the state of things in our country. And what's important right now is that political processes or real life, which, after yesterday's loud political statements, has gone nowhere. Life goes on. One of the most important tasks in the near future is the successful end of a war or so-called ATO has not yet been accomplished. I would like to put a stop to the problems of our military personnel, particularly the problems of financing that need to be addressed. There are specific facts that I have seen personally, including. I have a call from the families of the military. I was at the base of the Kirovograd Territorial Defense Battalion in the East, and there's a lot of questions about wages, and about providing ammunition, protection, food. This is all the money that is needed. Unfortunately, there is a constant shortage of funds. In addition, in Kirovgrad, the military had not yet received money for July. Only one family of dead heroes in ATO in Kirovgrad, who, unfortunately, are increasingly receiving the statutory payment and assistance from the state. With the third regiment of the Kirovograd Special Forces in the vanguard of our first day. Volunteers are also limitless. Instead, the army needs modern means of communication and intelligence, the purchase and repair of equipment, fuel, and car transportation — billions of dollars. Only the state, government and the Supreme Council, can invent these funds. And if we want to successfully complete the fighting, and we want to do so, we need to solve these problems as soon as possible. Yesterday, after two factions left the coalition, preparations were actually started for the elections. And it's not a big deal on the one hand. This is a promise made by the three political forces that were part of the Midan coalition. But on the other hand, I am convinced that it would have been right for me to work in the full hall yesterday to achieve compromise and to make political statements today in the empty room. But in any case, it's absolutely irresponsible to go to the polls without solving all these questions. The collapse of the coalition does not technically prevent members from voting together in the session room. Parliament can meet at any time of the day and night for an extraordinary meeting to still compromise on the financing of the army and the adoption of changes to the budget. I urge you, dear fellows, to meet at such an extraordinary meeting next week. Now we need specific decisions. And we don't have time for hours, hours, hours, not days or weeks. Yes, indeed, the government's proposed changes to the budget have many issues, they are not popular. But we are willing to seek compromise and offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u168	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u169	alternatives and sources of funding. We're not going to make an army hostage of political intrigue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u170	People's deputy Ilika, please. To prepare for the National Deputy of Marchinkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I would like to draw your attention to what the parents of these three children from a distant Australian family who lost them in Boing along with their grandfathers who flew and were beaten by terrorists. They wrote an open letter to Ukraine stating that there is no hatred stronger than love stronger than love for their children. There is no greater hatred for the terrorists who did this. Just for a moment, I pictured the father of the three children who are now surviving this family, as are the lives of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian families who are now putting their lives in favor of Ukraine’s independence, this is our Drochician, Igor Boris, our pillar of Mariana Dishl, and hundreds of other countries from Lvivščina, Western Ukraine, and Ukraine as a whole, who are now living through the families and families of these people. At the time of the death of the new heroes, heroes in judicial manteries commit lawlessness. In the Lviv Court of Appeal, the administrative judge Kuchta, Yavorsky, Klup is taken from the inhabitants of the Stebnik hectares of the city, where they grew their garden for 20 or 30 years together with the local council’s deputies. And the court decides in favor of these criminal decisions. And Kuriltz and Kochmar, the judges of the same court, are reinstated at the work of the secretary of the Drohoby Town Council, whom Majdan took out of his office and said he had no place to work there. And Plushka, the judge, Dunaevska and Samusenko, who are in the Supreme Court of Agriculture, grant permission to privatize the bookstore in the very center of Drogobic. Well, do we have to believe what's going on without bribes? Corruption continues to exist, just as now the director-designate of the Deposit Guarantee Fund, Mr. Vasil Pasicnik, is very well resting at the resort, rather than having those investors in the bank "Daniel", who are about a hundred willing to withdraw their deposits, and have some of them returned to finance the Ukrainian army. Dear friends, as long as the judges in the Manti are destroying Ukraine from the inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u172	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u173	Until then, it will be extremely difficult for us, including here in Parliament, to combat the cancerous tumor in our society. I'm going to the secretariat, and I'm asking you to consider my request to the High Council of Justice in relation to those judges that I've called; to the Attorney General's Office regarding the fund's Managing Director, where lawyers require up to 50 percent of the fees to have the people who put the money in the bank return their deposit, and they demand bribes from them. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u174	I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Marchinkov. Please prepare for National Deputy Furman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u175	Ruslan Marcinkov, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Last week, he was able to stay with the liberating brothers in the Lugansk region, take away the heat-visions and other aid to the volunteer department of Idar, where Ivano-Frankow City Council deputy from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association, Andry Grimaluk, is fighting. Today, thousands of our brothers are fighting in the antiterrorist area of Lugansk and Donetsk. That's why I want to express the thoughts of our military. First. Presidential error is the declaration of a truce with terrorists. During this time, the war went from gunfire to tank battles, artillery battles and self-propelled installations, the City and Tornado systems, which led to huge casualties by Ukrainian military personnel. The other one. The military doesn't understand how separatists and Russian divers walked peacefully from Slovenia to Donetsk and Lugansk, which allowed the villains to regroup and inflict a significant loss of 72nd, 79th and other military connections on the border with Russia. Where was our intelligence and aviation? Third. Small numbers of high - pitched and trained command lines, especially middle - line officers, have led to poor leadership and additional staff losses. Four. Non-systemic work on the provision of individual security and weapons to the Armed Forces. Today, Ukrainians feed and clothe the Ukrainian army. And where are the billions of dollars that we have allocated to the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the millions that the Ukrainians have collected? Fifth. No coordination between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Security Service, and volunteers. And as a result, it's not the coordination of actions and commands, it's the absence of a sense of combat, which in general is the centralized management of an anti-terrorism operation. With this in mind, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires the immediate introduction of military status in the occupied areas of the Lugansk and Donetsk region, the formation of the bet of the Commander-in-Chief and the subordination of all units of one leadership. Also, as an example of the Ukrainian rebel army, it is urgent to conduct rapid senior and senior schools for distinguished fighters and to form a powerful chain of battalion command. Today, too, there is a need for a powerful rear security system and military departments to protect bridges, railways, infrastructures, and so forth. All of this will give the necessary advantage to win the war, because peace, first of all, is the winning war. So let's win this war and win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u176	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Furman. Prepare the People's Deputies of Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u177	The honourable MPs, the honourable voters, the reason for my speech today is a gross violation of the information space on the part of Russia. Protecting the information space at all is a matter of national security. Russia’s war against our nation not only continues on the eastern borders and in the annexed Crimea but also in the information space. Today, Ukrainian information space is experiencing systematic aggression from the outside and is largely controlled by the forces that are hostile to Ukraine. In the Russian Federation, there is a doctrine of information wars, and special structures have been created to develop and carry out subversive information operations. Through television, web sites, various publications, articles, periodicals, which promote calls to change Ukraine's territorial integrity, in the absence of a clear pro-Ukrainian position of power, a certain section of the population has been formed to support separatists. An important place among the tools of enemy agitprom is the spread of pseudoscientific publications of Russian and Ukrainian publications that actively support separatists, calling for the collapse of the constitutional system in Ukraine. The spread of such literature is unacceptable and must be severely punished, especially in wartime conditions. I have been asked by Ukrainian citizens to spread through the online store in Ukraine, particularly the Balkan Book of Publications in Russia, Starikova, which is called Ukraine. Chaos and Revolution is a weapon of the dollar, an anti-Ukrainian, separatist content that ignites international hostility, which is written entirely in the spirit of Moscow's chauvinist propaganda. In particular, as noted in the Annotation of the publication quoted in the original language: “The book deals with the collapse of the Ukrainian State following the coup d’état of the U.S. Special Forces in Kiev in February 14”. And in Ukrainian cities, I quote, "Nazi fighters will be marching and blood will be shed." In this book, the author sings the Russian occupation of Crimea and promotes the idea of "Russian peace", which is a violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. In Ukraine, the distribution of this book is done by Phob-Cut from Kharkiv and other online stores. In fact, in the context of the Ukrainian-Russian war, I demand that the Ukrainian Security Service take all immediate measures to stop the second and free sale in Ukraine of separatist books and periodicals. To bring criminal responsibility to those involved in their manufacture. We need to win an information war with the enemy and the invader in Ukrainian territory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u178	I invite the people's representative of Popescu to the parliamentary rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u179	Thank you. Popescu, Cherniewec region. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, aside from the questions I raised during the previous speech, at the beginning of this day about the mobilization and the need to give parents many families a parental stay, I would like to draw attention to one problem that, despite the situation in Ukraine, is all of the same concern for people, particularly in the border regions of the Chernobyl region. This applies primarily to the activation of the Ukrainian-Romanian talks on the introduction of a small border movement between Ukraine and Romania, as this approach already exists between Ukraine and Poland, Hungary and Slovakia. With the inhabitants of Hertzai, Glubeck, Watchtower, Novoselov, Viznicke, and Putil district in the Chernivecki region having the opportunity to visit their relatives and loved ones in Romania’s border areas without a visa. And by the way, from that point on, there are citizens of Romania of Ukrainian origin. This also takes place in front of our Napkin in Maramarish. This will also help to increase, speed up and exploit international border crossings, which were previously functioning a few years ago, but only as points of a simplified border crossing, but were later closed. I am referring to the need to open international crossings on the border of Ukraine from the EU in the village of Djakowice in the Hertziev region, in the village of Krasnoylsk Stóžinetski district and in the village of Rusk Putilski district. Not only will this unload the existing international crossing point of the Lower Searet in the Deep Sea region, but it will also reduce the distance by tens of miles to the border crossing points for Ukrainian citizens marked in these areas, which will save their costs and time, and contribute to the development of entrepreneurial activity in these areas, especially now that the situation in these areas is very depressing. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the introduction of a small border movement between Ukraine and Romania will allow the inhabitants of all border areas of Zakarpatsk, Odessa and Cherniewski region to visit, before the introduction of a visa-free regime between Ukraine and the EU, under the simplified procedure of their relatives and acquaintances in the neighbouring friendly country of Romania, which, by way of the first in Europe, ratified the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. The solution to the problem will also help strengthen the Ukrainian-Romanian relationship. And this will give us the opportunity to have another reliable partner at this difficult time. Honorable colleagues and a respected chairman! Please consider my speech as a deputy address to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And finally, I want to draw the attention of all of our voters and the Cabinet of Ministers that he has to work. He has to work until we solve the matter in the east. Because we all need peace. Thank you. Peace be upon us all.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u180	I'm asking for the word of the People's Deputy Thank you. I don't see him in the session room. Is there a national MP, Greenewecki? I can't see either. On the list I then request to the Parliamentary Chamber of the Black People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u181	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectable Society! In recent times, statements by relatives of those now in the ATO area have been greatly increased, and in fact during the war. Mothers cover roads, mothers stage protests in various parts of Ukraine, in Lviv, in Ternopilla, earlier in Zakarpatta, in Volina, in Kiev, in Kharkishte. And if you talk to those women, those mothers, those soldiers' wives who are in the ATO zone right now, you can understand that, usually they don't want anything special, they just want to know what the fate of their family is now, what the fate of those who are at war, who are at hot spots. The fact is, there is not always a telephone connection to war. And when this phone connection is not available, relatives draw information from the media or the Internet, which unfortunately is often overcrowded with information, called on purposefully to sow panic among relatives. Tell us who did not read the information about the alleged mass destruction of Ukrainian soldiers whose bodies are being carried out with kassams. Or that Ukrainian soldiers who are already in the environment and through social networks seem to be just asking for help. Or that they sit for days and nights without water, without food, in the environment, and have no chance of breaking out and being doomed to destruction. Unfortunately, the average person finds it very difficult to understand such information as the truth, and what is a deliberately launched lie. And that's why the Ministry of Defense is supposed to have an information center or information service for relatives of those who are currently at war. And it should not be just for psychologists to work, but it should be for people who would help our relatives of the military to find their relatives, whom we hope will be temporarily lost in a telephone connection. And this service should be well advertised in all possible means of information, and it could certainly be contacted. That is, to make it available by telephone. A respected society, an authority that wants to win war, is obliged to talk and to explain to its people the events that are taking place. Families, mothers, wives, who spent time with their sons, and
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u182	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u183	led their sons and sent their husbands to war, deserved to be told the truth, or where their husbands and sons were, or at least the battalions in which they fought. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u184	We've got almost a minute left. I think, is there a Mr. Potter? None. There's no Mr. Dorokhov? Mr. Medunica, too, I see, is not. There's no alcohol. There's no bathroom. There is no Pavlovsky. There's no medic. The Bible conveys its right to speak to the Peacekeeper Igor. If I may, one minute then please, Mr. Igor, let us finish. It's a little short.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u185	Igor Miroshnichenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dearly esteemed volunteers who have remained in this session hall are practically alone, honourable voters, and the question is very important. And my last speech today at the sessional week is actually about the global problem -- the problem of oligarchs, Communists and Moscow. This triumph was destroyed by Ukraine. And I want to show you how this is happening in the Sumu factory called Frunze. This factory is a budgetary enterprise not only in Suma, but in the whole area. Constantine Grigorishin is a Moscow - based opal oligarch who, under Putin’s orders today, destroyed the Ukrainian economy for a long time as a sponsor of the bloody Communist Party. And today, he's following Putin's orders in enterprises where he's set up total control in both management and finance to destroy the Ukrainian economy. During the past five and a half years, this oligarch, with the help of the director - general of the Frunze Plant, Mr. Cimbala, has withdrawn over $200 million from the assets of an enterprise abroad. It's just as catastrophic.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u186	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u187	At the Frunze factory, the decline in production is catastrophic, according to 2013, more than 35 percent. Taxes were paid last year for 125 million dollars less than the previous year. Catastrophe workers are cut short. Three and a half years later, they were reduced to 5.5 thousand workers. Imagine these numbers. And it's going to go down to 4,500 employees. In order to temporarily solve the problems of the Frunze factory, the company’s management cynically turned all its employees into an army and called them to serve in the army in order to temporarily solve the problems. But the problem is global. Today, the Moscow oligarch is won in courts, in corporate disputes. This is a systematic destruction of the Ukrainian economy! This is happening in all regions of Ukraine! We, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, have repeatedly intensified our attention: banks that belong to the Moscow oligarchs, enterprises that belong to the Russian business today must be nationalized, restored to state ownership. Today, if the President, the Government and the Supreme Council don't pay attention to this problem, if we don't nationalize enterprises that belong to the occupying state and its oligarchs, we lose our economy. Today, in Crimea, Moscow has criminally stolen all our assets, costing more than a trillion dollars. Why are Russian banks still operating in Ukraine? Why do we still protect the property of Russian oligarchs in Ukraine, finance criminals and bandits, and finance Russia, which kills Ukrainians who destroy our territories? Let us put an end to Moscow's business once and for all, Russian oligarchs in Ukraine and those oligarchs who financed the bloody Communist Party, which once and for all, I am sure will soon disappear from Ukraine's political map! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-25-m0.u188	Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. I want to remind you that next week you work in constituencies. I invite you to make the most of this time with the inhabitants of our villages, cities, and districts. To carry out the explanatory work with them, to ask questions, the problems that arise today in their lives, and to make the decisions that the Supreme Council has adopted today during this plenary week of meetings. There'll be work on the committees in a week. I'm asking the heads, the heads of the professional committees to organize the committee work in a high-quality manner so that those bills that have been on the committee for a long time could be discussed and brought to the session room. And our next plenary meeting will take place on August 12th at 10 a.m. At this I declare the morning session closed. Thank you. Good-bye. Glory to Ukraine!
