ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Traditionally, I would like to welcome our colleague Tetjana Jaroslavna Tear, who is celebrating her birthday today. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, please register. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:20]] There were 271 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is starting its work. Dear colleagues, I pay attention to both Parliament and our entire Ukrainian people that yesterday was a very important and effective parliamentary day. You and I have adopted many important laws. In particular, taking into account the situation in the country, we adopted the Law on Strengthening Responsibility for Crimes Against the Basis of National Security. This law is primarily directed against those who attempt to ignite the flames of separatism, who are speaking out to our country, against the integrity, inviolability of our borders. You and I have made a very important decision by voting in favour of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Elections of Local Councils, thereby ensuring the efficiency of the elections to the local councils on May 25 and saving about a billion budget. The very important question voted yesterday by the Supreme Council is the question of the humanization of our country, the first thing we have decided about amnesty for the condemned. Let me remind you that three years in a row, no decision has been made on the amnesty of our citizens. It is also very important that we have made changes to legislation that ensure that the legal status of the condemned person is adapted to European standards. Dear colleagues, the revolutionary decision of our Parliament was the adoption of the Law on Restoration of Trust in Ukraine’s Judicial System. And I am convinced that it is from the adoption of this law that we will ensure the way to honest, open justice in Ukraine and will certainly ensure trust in our judicial system. The courts should make decisions in accordance with the law and the Constitution, not with political orders and corrupt schemes. Dear colleagues, a very important step we have taken by adopting the Education Act in the first reading. This law provides quality education in Ukraine, ensures development and a view of the future, and provides a decent education for our young people. I point out that, with the insistence of hundreds of thousands of our citizens yesterday, the Supreme Council canceled the disposal assembly and the excise on reconfiguration of vehicles. And the equally important issue is that we have strengthened our country's security of character by adopting the Financial Security Act. I am very grateful to all the people's deputies who worked effectively and effectively in Parliament yesterday. Thank you, Your Honor. Now for the announcement. According to the application and part of the third article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, the national deputy of Goncharov claims his withdrawal from the faction of the Party of the Regions. Next question, dear colleagues. On April 8, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered Ukrainian National Deputies: Krutiya Vitalija Ivanovich, elected on October 28, 2012 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, is included in the election list of the party "ADA" and the Black Galina Mikhailnovna, elected on October 28, 2012 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency constituency, is included in the election list of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. For the purpose of making an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Kruti Vitali Ivanovich, is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u3	Hello. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Black Galina Mikhailovna, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine. To carry out their duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleagues. And I'm asking all the national deputies to sign up for the speech. Let me remind you that today, under the Rules, we have 30 minutes for the national MPs. Please turn on the "Council" system and record the performance of the National MPs. The word is given to the national deputy Korge, the Party of the Regions. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u6	Hello, respectable colleagues, distinguished viewers, voters! For the first time in this rostrum, I speak in Russian in support of the legislative initiatives that our faction in particular is initiating with regard to the introduction of the second state language, the Russian language. But I would like to raise, not political issues, but economic issues that concern our society, our State. Since it is known that the current power has recently passed a law that entered into force on 1 April this year, the Law on overcoming the consequences of the financial disaster and creating economic preconditions for development, economic development in Ukraine. In particular, the current authority has acquittaled that deposits will be taxed from July of this year, which is not the case since the law was passed from the wheel. On the same day, the bill was handed out to the deputies, and it was not worked. Our comments were ignored about the fact that it should be held by a relevant committee, so that the actors of the legislative initiative would make proposals. What do we have? Since 1 April this year, drug import operations have been carried out in the customs territory of Ukraine at a rate of 20 per cent. This means that primary import operations have increased by 20 per cent to importers. In the further implementation of these drugs, 7 per cent is applied to the difference, i.e. improvements. Second. Deposits shall be taxed as from 1 April of this year, regardless of their size. Annotated by the authorities about the fact that income will not be taxed in the form of more than 20,000 per cent is simply a bluff. This will apply from 1 July. Accordingly, representatives of our faction have registered, inter alia, a bill which provides for suspension for the period from 1 April to 1 July this year, the inclusion of any interest in the taxable income, and in order to give effect to those advertisements that have been declared by the authors of the bill, so that these provisions will take effect from 1 July of this year. The bill, Bill 4633, is also proposed for inclusion in the agenda. The bill proposes amnesty for those contributions that have been made by the population in the national currency. What is the reason for this? Contributions received prior to 1 May of this year on treaties. This is due to the devaluation of the bracelet. The population that invested in the national currency has already lost. Taxing doesn't make any sense. Also, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the need for legislation to postpone the reporting period on transfer pricing. May 1st will be soon. Payers should submit reports accordingly. Neither the taxpayers are prepared nor the taxpayer is prepared to administer the information. Accordingly, please consider this or next week as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u8	Consider Bill 4375, which states that the reporting period should not be the first. Not since this year, but since next year. Accordingly, the bill also provides for the release of domestic transactions from tax control on transfer pricing. These are very topical issues for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u9	Please give your word from the Communist Party to the National MP Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u10	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to continue my statement yesterday, which has not allowed me to finish those who today impose on us the fight against disorientation not only outside our Parliament, namely, here, with cowards who are afraid to hear another point of view, who is afraid to hear from the people. [[Applause]] In the information space, there is now a fiercest war against its own people, except for the fight against dissension. The own people, who are going to mass protests in Donetsk, Luhansk, Harikov, other areas, are now accused of separatism and terrorism, that is to say that they commit crimes and claim to be willing to use anti-terrorist acts. This is what is reported to Europe by the fact that they are already going to shoot their own people, because anti-terrorist action is precisely what all the methods that are now recognized in the world as a struggle against today's obstacles to living freely. That is why I reiterate the position of the faction of the Company that it is unacceptable at all to accuse the people of Ukraine of separatism and terrorism. Because these actions are thousands of people, and the information war has become the nature of the Hebels propaganda today. I was personally in the square in Donetsk, I was meeting people, I was trying to clarify the situation that led them to the central square and what they're fighting for today. And I want to say that there are no extremists, there are no separatists, there are people who think about the future of our country, who think about the future of our citizens. I am addressing the people of south-east Ukraine. We Communists support you in the status of the Russian language that you advocate as the second state. We support you in your efforts to protect your interests by discussing all these issues in local referendums. And we support you in the fact that it is the territories that are the greatest, which today constitute the pride of the Ukrainian people and Ukraine as States that must discuss all these issues and fight for their future. We also support you in the position you have set out on how to preserve the integrity of the State of Ukraine, this is in matters of federalization. The wise Ukrainian people who live in the east said that the only mechanism today is the preservation of the integrity of the State of Ukraine, the federal structure of our State. We will do everything today to protect and support the right of Ukrainian citizens to freedom of expression and to have the right to defend their values, as they deem necessary. We are sure of that, Communists, and we will necessarily support our citizens in these aspirations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u11	The Communist Party is the national deputy of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u12	Goncharov Sergey, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Respected voters, the Statistics Service has released an assessment of Ukraine's gross regional product. This indicator summarizes the economic activities of the regions and characterizes the production of end-use goods and services. The largest figure of GDP was in Kiev: 275.7 billion, or 18.9 per cent of the total. It is followed by the Donetsk Region (170.8 billion, or 11.7 per cent), Dnepropetrovska (148, or 10.1 per cent), Harkovsky (62.2 billion, 5.6), Lugansk oblast (58.4 per cent). These figures have led me to believe that some vigilant analysts have shocked Ukraine with another sensation: they have discovered a “black hole” of eating just east of Ukraine. And these numbers help us see reality: who's the donor? Ukraine's budget for balancing local budgets is in the amount of the grant in Iran, and the absolute amount of the grant is in the form of a conclusion, respected analysts, how much of the budget for each region is allocated per capita. For example, Volyn is 2,000,530 griven, Zakarpatier is 2,000,499, Chernovitsa is 2,000, 300. At the same time, Donetskya is 741 bracelets, Harikovsky is 964, Lugansk is 1 000 128. Let us therefore make sure that the figures help to see reality in its quantitative and qualitative dimension, help Ukraine to make high results, enable our people to live better. Yes, it is not possible to completely rid ourselves of the subsidization of the regions today. Yes, one hundred per cent of the budgetary self-sufficiency of all, without the exception of the territories of the State, is not in nature. But it is possible to reduce dependence on the State budget by further strengthening the domestic economy, by working in good faith and perseverance. And the second question. I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens once again. The company stands firm in its position not to even try to talk about a war. We are for peace and harmony. The communists warned that the refusal of a referendum on European integration would pose a risk to society. They didn't hear us. We have warned that the legalization of radicalism will lead to an open protest in the East. They can't hear us either. Perhaps if the authorities are not able to engage in dialogue with Russia, let us allow the political forces they can. And to make our Ukraine whole and united. And second, last. I want to speak to the Minister of Agriculture. I was approached by residents of the Lugansk Region of the Belokouratin region of the Alekseyev Village Council, where comrades of the Agro rented 2,000 acres of land in 540 roosters. There you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u13	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u14	These people have not received more than 500,000 bracelets in the past year. Today, no more than one hectare of soil has been sown. The leader, Ludmila Nikolayevna Timoshenko, lives here in Kiev. That's why I'm talking. I believe that this statement will be a request by the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u15	Please, from the faction of the Party of the Regions, the word is given to the National Deputy of Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u16	Please give the floor to the representative of Luhansk, Mr. Gorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u17	Please, National Deputy Gorokhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u18	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw your attention first to the fact that all of us, members of the people, must abide by the Constitution. In what way, exactly? Those deputies who have moved to the executive branch, who work as governors, who work in other posts, should write a statement on the composition of the mandate. Now I want to say what's going on in the business environment. I'll tell Lugansk, maybe someone else has a situation. But a statement, a thoughtless statement by individual politicians, namely that a visa regime should be introduced with the Russian Federation. The fact that Ukraine should leave the Commonwealth of Independent States is a very frightening business. We have business in Luhansk, looking for places that want to go to another country. Which could lead to that. We have an expert-oriented business in Luhansk, which is focused on customs union countries. If they move to the Russian Federation this year or next year, we will see a reduction in taxes. And this will have a negative impact, especially on our people, on our constituents. I believe that this is unacceptable and should be considered in this situation. What's still going on in the east, I think you and I can share our views. Thus, the Tax Administration calls for entrepreneurs and declares that the VAT refund, which was before 1 January 2014, should be forgotten by entrepreneurs. Second, there is no ongoing VAT recovery, which if you are faced with business, is a very serious tax burden that is on the edge of profitability and competition in the external market. I don't think that's acceptable. Unless we want to completely bury our domestic producer and the expert. Next thing you know, there's more going on. Businesses are being called to the Tax Administration and they say we're counting on you, we're taking down some kind of tax burden on VAT from the past few years. And now you're going to be paying for it in the current period. Entrepreneurs refuse to do so, and they say that we are better off closing our business than we are going to work in this climate. I think if this happens, we'll have someone to pay their budget taxes in a few months. And that might not happen anymore, what's going on in the street, it could be a very serious social explosion. So I call on all politicians, let's be careful about making statements, and the fiscal authorities don't need, as the entrepreneurs say, we don't need to help, you don't have to stop us from doing business. You don't need to raise taxes, you need to cut taxes and get them out of the shadows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u19	People's Deputy Shipko, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u20	Dnepropetrovsk oblast, 35 constituency, Nicopol, Ordzhonikidze, Nicopolsk Region. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. There are many challenges in our country today. But I want to pay attention to the problem that Ukrainians are dying of. The introduction of additional taxes on medicines is directly proportional to the number of people who will not be able to buy them and obtain treatment. The pharmaceutical sector is socially significant and it is not possible to make changes, nor have they analysed all the risks. It might happen that a 7 percent VAT rate is not much. But the effects of the changes are impressive. As we go to the pharmacy, we can see how the price sheets are transliterated, and the drugs are precious in front of our eyes. And what do we have? On the other hand, pharmacies are technically unprepared for new tax conditions, they need a transition period. Secondly, importers stopped the cargo at the customs border, entire groups of life-saving drugs disappearing from the shelves of pharmacies and, worse still, from hospitals. And the worst. Tax changes directly hit the pockets of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. I realize that the economy needs anti - crisis measures right now, but it is unacceptable to experiment with life and health. We all realize that VAT is on the shoulders of the final consumer. Such taxes should be introduced only after careful preparation and analysis of all risks. World experience tells us that the VAT on medicines exists successfully only in countries where insurance medicine is in operation and the state is in the process of compensating the cost of medical supplies. So I insist that the introduction of VAT on medicines today is premature, and I propose that the introduction of this tax be suspended. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, honourable deputies, we can do this immediately. Our Bill 4637, which removes the identified risks, has already been registered. At the same time, our experts have been working on government changes. It's time to bring them into the agenda as urgent, and that is what our Economic Development Group insists on, and to vote immediately. I want the state to protect our people, give them hope and faith in life. I hope you have your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u21	People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u22	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that despite the ongoing rhetoric of the Russian leadership that they do not seem to be considering the introduction of the Russian Federation military forces into the territory of Ukraine, the threat of military intervention is still too urgent. And that's why we need the whole society to consolidate around the possibility of negative developments in Ukraine. Because it takes hard reasons for troops to enter. And today, unfortunately, all over Ukraine is being created. These are reasons for economic dissatisfaction. The increase in gas prices per week, literally, twice as much, is an element of destabilizing the situation in Ukraine. The other one. A consistent and well-coordinated separatist performance by a small number of people who are not supported in the East and South of Ukraine, but still have a systemic character. And here, Comrade Simonenko told us that there is no intention of separateing ourselves from separatist sentiments, so that's an open lie. You told us about Crimea. But your Communist Party voted in the Crimea Parliament to separate Crimea from Ukraine and to hold a federation. Now you're telling us the same thing about the East. But look at the documents that are being accepted by a bunch of people in the captivated Donetsk administration. It also clearly states: the introduction of the Donetsk so-called republic into the Russian Federation, and the direct appeal to Putin is to introduce Russian troops. What are you talking about? So, Your Honor, I don't want to set the situation on fire, but, of course, the strength of the Armed Forces -- question number one today. And all of this depends on the material and technical support of our Armed Forces. The Supreme Council has taken some steps in this direction, we have allocated an additional 7 billion dollars. Today, the whole society is united in the search for charitable contributions to the army. We settled that question yesterday. But please, I'm asking every businessman, today your debt, your personal civil debt to society, to help the Ukrainian army. There's every possibility of doing that. Fine contributions. You can count a million -- count a million in favor of the Ukrainian army. You can count 10,000 dollars -- count it. All citizens today through the number "565" help the Ukrainian army. We're in the Supreme Council of Ukraine today and the Strike faction has counted a fraction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u24	We counted part of our salary, the weekly salary to help the Ukrainian army. This should unite us today. So, colleagues, I am. But, Alexander Valentine's Day, I address you specifically, very briefly. All these charitable funds should be placed under strict control by your own person, because, God forbid, even though a penny of this charity will go somewhere in the pockets of some officials. We have, should not be able to discredit the popular support of the Ukrainian army. So what I'm asking you to do is take on those 100 million dollars that our citizens counted to support the Ukrainian army, personal control to get right to, to support our army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u25	National MP Borita, Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u26	Please pass the word Mikhailenko Olzi Dmitrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u27	Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u28	Thank you. Olga Mikhailenko, Hersonian, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, voters, we are concerned about the lack of authority in the region. Power is uninvolved. The only thing he does is deliver new heads of district government. In Herson on 30 March, people celebrated the 70th anniversary of the education of the Herson region. It is not enough that the Supreme Council has been unable to consider the Order on this matter, of which I am the author. Because she was handing out revolutionary portfolios. On that day, the Hersonians received no congratulations from the authorities, either central or local. Instead of saying thank you to the veterans, to honor the people who in their time made the region sound great, "I want to live the way it did in Herson." The authorities didn't think of anything else to do to invite the "Legal Sector" from other regions and shout, "Damn to the veterans of the Great Homeland War!" the liberators of the Herson region, veterans, builders of the North Crimea Canal Shipbuilding Plants of the Kakhov Mining System. I have been asked by people to question the acting President of Ukraine. Dear Valentin Alexandrovich, what country do you live in? What do you do? The army must be strengthened, of course. But there is also a need to restore irrigation, gasify settlements, repair water and sanitation networks, finance schools, kindergartens, and cultural institutions. Communists demand an end to intimidation, violence, terror, unwarranted militarization of the country. Once again, we protest the inaction of law enforcement authorities to release the Company's premises from the bandits. Implementation of the European Parliament resolution. We demand the leadership of the Supreme Council to assess objectively the misconduct of certain uneducated free morals, whose impunity leads to new morals and humanity. In large numbers, we lost the Crimea because of these politicians. Today, there are shares in the south-east of our country. These policies today divide Ukraine into parts. It's a disgrace to the professional freedom of shame! It's a disgrace to a coalition that includes neo-Nazis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you what we agreed yesterday at the faction leaders' meeting -- that we're not going to use force in the Supreme Council, that's unacceptable. At the same time, however, we will not provoke, humiliate, and offend our deputies. And I'd like to draw your attention to the last speaker that you're speaking out against your fellow national MPs. Please, Voropeyev, Party of Regions. Passes the word Bondarenko to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize and present today three very important facts. First. This is the Interim Investigation Commission allegedly led by Moskal, who is to investigate law enforcement directly during the mass unrest in Kiev. What's going on here, folks? And here's what's happening. I, for one, have to ask Mr. Moscal for a personal invitation to the commission in the hall. We come to the Interim Investigation Commission, think about it, I thought it only happened in stories about Harry Potter, there are characters who aren't called names, and we have commissions that don't show documents. I come to the Interim Investigation Commission, I have neither the agenda nor the list of invitees nor the transcripts of past meetings. Moreover, none of the members of the Commission had seen copies of any of the documents in or out of the file in principle. None! What does Mr. Moskal do? I understand in the proverb, "You won't deliver a bird from a crocodile." In this case, I demand, on absolutely legal grounds, to show me at least a piece of paper that has been entered into the interim commission of inquiry so that we can then make any decision. I understand why it's done. Mr. Moscal, aren't you ashamed? Did you want all of us to participate in your forgery, sign some kind of fake scroll? That's not gonna happen! At least learn from Jarem, who distributed some of the letters and letters in his Interim Investigation Commission. I wish to draw the attention of my colleagues to this fact. Next, after today. Look at Law 4648. Do you know what this bill is proposing? I'll tell you what. I'll tell the press, I'll tell the teachers and the parents of all the students. The bill now proposes, first of all, to reduce the pay for teachers'pedagogical burdens, to introduce pay for extracurricular education, to virtually eliminate the budgetary form of education in higher education institutions, and also to raise fees for university contractors in connection with inflation, which is now prohibited. Furthermore, it appears to us that all officials who work in local self-governments are invited to withdraw all allowances, all payments, only to be placed on the bare salary. Do you have any idea who'll still be working at the local government's salary of 800 to 900 bracelets? In fact, you're opening the way to corruption because they're going to start making money beyond their wages. See what's in this bill? You're taking out all the senior aids from government officials. What's more, cynicism! The bill proposes to reduce aid for single mothers for children! What are you doing? You've got the south-east in the fire, and you're adopting such bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u31	Give me a few possibilities. finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u32	Wait a minute. And one last moment. How long will Shulga, Bondarenko, Seh, Pashinsky, Odarchenko, Jarem and Sanchenko be in our parliament? Those freaks they find.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u33	National Deputy Chub, faction of the Party of the Regions gives the floor to the National Deputy of Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, after another demonstration of the fact that they don't know how to listen to each other in Parliament, I have to give you a little lesson in democracy and call on Voltaire. You remember he said, "I don't share your views, but I will give my life for you to express." Learn from Walter, gentlemen, first. The second, the second, the hen of democracy, the honourable representatives of Parliament and the majority. I think it's embarrassing and wrong when people who came to power under the slogans of democracy break the Constitution and the law by taking two chairs. There are governors who work as governors and at the same time occupy parliamentary seats, ministers, heads of the President's administration and so forth. If you want Ukraine to live by the law, show an example at last and do not show such shameful disregard for the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for doing everything he can to enable people to express their thoughts from this rostrum without beatings or beatings. But I also want to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to pay more attention to the pressing problems of the people who are in pain right now. In particular, soldiers returning from Crimea and their families found themselves in a very pitiful situation. They're running around in sanitariums, some temporary shelters, other people's apartments. Mr. Head, over the past five years, there have been many national deputies who are no longer national deputies who have received a service home. We need to get this service housing. If it is privatized, such privatization through the court should be cancelled and given to the families of the military. They're coming back from Crimea. And this is going to be an example of what we really care about the people here and we teach Ukraine democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, we have completed the speeches of the national MPs. It was called the name of a national MP named Moskal. I'm giving him the opportunity to make a replica. And I'm asking the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the deputies can approach the session room. We will now make a decision by voting. Please make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u36	Dear Mrs Bondarenko, listen to me! The poor and the political bankrupt have no servants. All documents relating to the criminal activity of Yanukovich, Klivva, Zacharychenka, Jakimenka and everyone from whom you received $50,000 a month will be given to the Attorney General's Office, not to you. You will read with them in Moscow or on the benches of the defendants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I am announcing that according to the statement made, the Ukrainian National Deputy Black Galina Mikhaylovna has joined the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we need to make decisions. I would like to re-enact in the towers of the Supreme Council and invite all the national MPs -- all of them, I emphasize -- to the decision-making room. I'm asking the people's deputies a question. Yesterday you and I were unable to make a decision about the inclusion in the agenda of an entire package of important laws. Including in this package and many anti-crisis laws that the government wants to consider first. Dear colleagues, yesterday there was information in some of the speeches that a package vote was a violation of the Rules. I read the Rules with the factions, where there are no problems with this vote. Of course, under the insistence of the national MPs, we can vote on each law separately. But on the one hand, we're going to waste a lot of time, on the other hand, dear colleagues, we may not accept. do not put into order the unpopular laws that the government insists on, nor do they vote to include the same laws in the agenda of the day from opposition. That's why I'd ask. I see a hand. I, my fellow Members, ask you to support the proposal and vote on the entire package of proposals, I emphasize, from all the MPs, from the non-fractional MPs. Including and certainly from the Cabinet of Ministers, the primary laws that need to be included in the agenda to be reviewed promptly. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear Mr. Head, I'm addressing you once more. We agreed, and you know how painful that decision was at the time, that the chairman of the meeting would announce the missing persons every morning. Well, why don't we. What's more, it's so relevant today. For voters to know which segment groups are ignoring in such a difficult time for Ukraine today are ignoring the work of the legislative body. And secondly, dear Mr. Head, you were so encouraging to us yesterday, and indeed, somehow relieved after that. That if you were to either insult some political segment present in the Supreme Council outside the Supreme Council, or if, from the State Hall, I emphasize, there would be anti-State speeches from the State Hall, I would stress again, at such a tragic time for the State, turn off the microphone. It will not be any sin. On the contrary, it will be a job for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you that I don't have a button to turn off the microphone, only I can ask the secretariat to do so. Let's technically deal with this issue so it happens quickly. Because by the time we're done, I'll only be able to give the technical team. Colleagues, at the request of the national deputy of Yavorowski, I declare that there is a national MP Demiscan on leave. People's deputies are on the mission of Popescu, Sobolev, Aliev****, Evening, Heratshenko, Kondratuk, Kiwalov, Ljevočina, Mirimsky, Pilipenko, Simonenko, although I saw him this morning, Shevchenko, and Andry Tagnibok. Dear colleagues, I see your hands, and please. Colleagues, it's in order, it's in law enforcement, isn't it? Please, the national MP Tomenko wants to make a proposal for inclusion, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished colleagues, well, strangely yesterday, my colleague Sobolev and I pointed out that at night we have a decree from our committee that we want to find out what is going on in the information field. It's here at night and it's out in the morning. Whether it's a coincidence or maybe there's a chance in the Supreme Council's apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u41	Name the number, please make your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u42	4401.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u43	4401 decision of the profile committee. Dear colleagues, I see many hands again. We're going to put the laws out of the voice again, we're going to put them back in the bag. So, dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sit in my workplace. Andrew Volodymyrovich, to his workplace. And I would like to support the longer integration into the agenda of the day's session of a package of laws that was announced yesterday, taking into account the proposal of the national MP Tomenka. You all have a list of these laws, and I announced under the transcript yesterday those laws that were included, as well as those that were insisted on by the national MPs, and I ask, Your Honor, to support the inclusion of this package of laws in the order of the day of our session. It's about inclusion. Please turn on the "Council" system and support this proposal. Please vote. [[10:50:01]] For-162 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 69, Impact - 25, Economic Development - 4, Sovereign European Ukraine -9, Freedom - 31, Company - 0, Postfaction - 24. I thank the coalition members for supporting the proposal that has failed. Dear colleagues, I have another option. I don't see the prospect of looking at it, but I'm going to go through it in accordance with the Rules. It's about incorporating each individual law into the order of the day of our session. There's an offer, Your Honor, for us to vote without discussion. There are a lot of them, which is why I'm going to call the number and name of the law and ask the session room to vote. Please, let's get to work. Registration number 4131, Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase responsibility for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine). Please, Your Honor, please decide to include this project in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[10:51:28]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The next question is the draft law on illustration in Ukraine. These are projects of national deputies (registration numbers: 4570, 4571, 4572, 4573). Please identify yourself from this question, support them with regard to inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:52:08]] For 177 By factions, please ask the MPs. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 72, Impact - 29, Economic Development - 3, Sovereign European Ukraine - 17, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, non-fractional - 24. Next is the draft Act amending the Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (No. 4638). Please identify yourself in this regard. [[10:52:49]] For 257 Decision taken. Next question (registration number 4632) is the draft Act amending the Act on the Higher Council of Justice (for the improvement of the legal rules governing the order of termination of the powers of members of the High Council of Justice). Please make up your mind. [[10:53:24]] For 169 The decision is not taken. Next question. Registration number 4556. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in the field of State anti-corruption policy in connection with the implementation of the Plan of Action for Liberalisation of Ukraine’s European Union of Visas. Please, Your Honor, this is about liberalisation of the visa regime with the European Union. Please support, this is an important government project. Please vote. [[10:54:10]] For 221 Dear colleagues, do we have a parliament against visa liberalisation? I don't understand that position. [[B in m in s a l in]] Technical questions. Dear colleagues, I ask that we work responsibly, then we will have no technical problems in making decisions. I'm going to put this question to the vote again. 4556: Draft Act amending certain legislative acts in the field of State anti-discrimination. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute. Dear colleagues, when it comes to returning, even though it's part of the agenda, it's not a question of content. Please return to this question. Please vote. [[10:55:10]] For 228 Decision taken. We're going back to this law. Dear colleagues, I ask you to work carefully. Once again, I ask you to include in the order of the daily draft of Law 4556, which we have now supported in order to return to its consideration. Please vote. Everyone, please vote carefully. [[10:55:39]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, once again, when we are included in the order of the day, it is not necessary to return here, in accordance with the Rules. We can include several times in the order of the day. 4607 registration number of the draft Act amending the current Ukrainian legislation on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Please support the law that aims to combat corruption. Please support Parliament's inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[10:56:25]] For 168 The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 71, Strike 21 is Economic Development is 2, Sovereign European Ukraine is 14, Freedom is 33, Company is 0, non-fractional is 27. The next question is registration number 4591, then, colleagues, let me go over and let me comment. 4591 is a draft law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (to increase the financial autonomy of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol). Please, a government project. Please be supportive. [[10:57:15.]] For 260 Decision taken. Thus, we confirm that Crimea and Sevastopol were, are, and will be Ukrainian regions. Please ask me the following question: the draft Law on State Procurement. A very important question, dear colleagues. 4587 (government) and 4587-1 is a parliamentary bill. I ask for these two projects, which are alternatives to vote on their inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. [[10:57:59]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – and, "The Fatherland" – 72, "The Strike" – 26, "Economic Development" – 26, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 31, "Freedom" – 33, "non-fractional" – 33. Dear colleagues, this is the most important question, transparent tenders, transparent, well-preserved purchases. Is it not clear that this should be supported in the Supreme Council? I repeat this question and I ask you to vote. Project 4587, 4587-1, please support for inclusion. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[10:58:46]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 71, Impact - 30, Economic Development - 27, Sovereign European Ukraine - 32, Freedom - 33, Company - 0, non-fractional - 36. I think the opposition is also interested in the transparency of government purchases. So that there is no corruption and there is access to information about the conduct of tender procedures in Ukraine. I'm surprised why these projects aren't voted out by opposition factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, next question. 4590, draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (for information on state registration of rights and their burdens from the State Register of Real Estate Rights). This is a question of transparency, of informing our society, please support the project. [[10:59:57]] For 262 Decision taken. Next question. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts to increase the liability for breaches of legislation in the area of administrative services. It's a parliamentary law and a government law that goes as an alternative. Please support, Your Honor, this is also the anti-corruption course of our activity. Please vote. [[11:00:35]] For 270. Decision taken. Next question, dear colleagues. The draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the Free System in the Field of Economic Activity (to improve the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature drawn up by the central authorities of the executive branch. It is about simplifying the procedures and activities of the permit system. Please, 4584, please. [[11:01:15]] For 264 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts to certify the integrity of copies, photocopies of documents and their statements and the validity of the signature on the documents. The fight against counterfeiting, counterfeiting, and so forth. Please, 4582, please support. [[11:01:52]] For 268. Decision taken. Next draft of the Law on Metrology and Metrology, 4583 registration number. Please be supportive. [[11:02:41]] For 267 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Standardization Act, registration number 4585. Please vote, Your Honor. [[11:02:41]] For 260 Decision taken. The next issue is the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of investor rights. 4586. Please be supportive. [[11:03:05]] For 257 Registration number 4551. Decision taken. 257, I'm sorry. . Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine relating to the activities of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights in the field of personal data protection (registration number 4551). Please be supportive. [[11:03:37]] For 261 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Refugees and Persons in Need of Additional or Temporary Protection. (project number 4580). Please be supportive. [[11:04:07]] For 258. Decision taken. (Registration No. 4581), draft Act amending certain legislation to prevent and combat discrimination. Please support (4581). [[11:04:35]] For 241 Decision taken. Next question, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Persons and Homeless Children and on Employment. Please (project number 4574), please support an important social law. [[11:05:09]] For 253 Decision taken. Draft Law on the National Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigations. Here are two alternative projects (number 4573) and (4573-1), please support the National Deputies to include these projects in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:05:43]] For-174 The decision is not taken. I see that many deputies have no desire to fight corruption. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 72, Impact - 26, Economic Development - 4, Sovereign European Ukraine - 12, Freedom - 31, Company - 0, non-fractional - 29. Next question: Draft Law amending the Budget Code to bring it into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, two parliamentary projects, please, 4160, 4160-d. I would like to make a decision on Parliament. [[11:06:33]] For 255 Decision taken. The following question is the draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges (as regards the reconciliation of administrative positions in the courts). These are two MP projects: 4540 and 4540-1. In connection with yesterday's Parliament's decision on the Law of Trust in Courts, we're taking it down, so I understand the authors? The question is off, he doesn't need to vote. Please ask the following question: 4344 registration number: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads (for the characteristics of the election of the city heads by an absolute majority of voters). Please support me. 4344: Reinforcement of local self - government Please vote. [[11:07:43]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Regional Party is 0, Fatherland is 74, Impact is 16, Economic Development is 17, Sovereign European Ukraine is 25, Freedom is 33, the Company is 0, non-fractional is 28. Next question: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the provision of voting abroad, project number 4595. I'd like the Supreme Council to decide. [[11:08:28]] For 211 It's not the Supreme Council, it's the 211. The decision is not taken. This law regulates voting abroad, I don't understand the problems. But let's move on. Next question. No.4369, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. It's a very important question. Please support No.4369. [[11:09:08]] For 261 Decision taken. Next question. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the classification and repayment of debt obligations resulting from incomplete energy bills. These are two MP projects: 4566, 4566-1. May the Supreme Council decide on this matter, please vote. [[11:09:49]] For 178. The decision is not taken. Next question. Draft Order amending the Appendix to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Seventh Call". Registration number 4345. Please support me. [[11:10:26]] For-174 The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 70, Impact - 22, Economic Development - 2, Sovereign European Ukraine - 23.33 - Freedom, 0 - Company, non-fractional - 24. Next question. No.4506, draft Act amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine concerning the establishment of a holiday day on March 9 – Shevchenkov Day, please 4506. I would like to make a decision on Parliament. [[11:11:10]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 1, Fatherland – 72, Impact – 14, 14 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 30, 33 – Freedom. - 0.31 is non-fractional. Next question, Your Honor, is the draft Act amending article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase criminal responsibility for illegal placement in Ukraine of State symbols of other states. Please support Parliament. [[11:11:56]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 70, Impact - 22, Economic Development - 6, Sovereign European Ukraine - 24, Freedom - 33, Company - 0, non-fractional - 30. Dear colleagues, next question. Registration number 4621, draft Act amending certain legislation prohibiting foreigners and stateless persons from participating in political activities in Ukraine. I'd like to make a decision to Parliament, 4621. Please vote. [[11:12:46]] For 240 Decision taken. Next question, registration number 4644, is the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (to improve energy bills). I ask Parliament to support this issue, which governs a very important sector of the country's economy. Please support Parliament. [[11:13:22]] For 158. The decision is not taken. Next question. 4645 registration number, draft law amending Ukraine's Originator Code and some other Ukrainian legislation on the elimination of individual inconsistencies in legislation. Please, Your Honor, support the government law, 4645. Please vote. [[11:13:57]] For 199 The decision is not taken, The factions. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 70, Impact - 13, Economic Development - 25, Sovereign European Ukraine - 29, Freedom - 32, Company - 0, Postfaction - 30. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sit down and put your hands down, we'll go all over the list and then, when there's an insistence on going back to specific issues, I can do that. Please, Your Honor, 4645 registration number, draft law amending the Origin Code. Excuse me, 4646 registration number, draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code. Please be supportive. [[11:15:04]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 11, 72 – "The Fatherland", "The Strike" – 1, (I don't understand the position, this is the government package of laws) "Economic Development" – 27, 28 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 33 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 29. Draft Law on Introduction. Colleagues, we'll be back in the end, and after any return proposal has been completed, I will be supported. 4648 is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts (for specific provisions of social policy). Please be supportive. 4648. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:16:06]] For-151 The decision is not taken. The factions. Please, the Party of the Regions is 0, Fatherland is 58, Impact is 1, Economic Development is 3, Sovereign European Ukraine is 28, Freedom is 33, Company is 0, non-fractional is 28. Dear colleagues, registration number 4647, is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts. Please make up your mind to Parliament, please support. [[11:16:53]] For 148 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to raise the hands of the national MPs who insist on re-examination of the inclusion of laws that have not been supported during our vote. Please turn on Andrew Cosemykin’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u45	Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to ask you to return to the vote for inclusion in the agenda of Bill No. 4607. This is a revolutionary bill that allows us today to fight corruption, not by law enforcement agencies, which we can't clean up from this disease until now, but by allowing us to fight corruption for ordinary citizens in Ukraine. And I want to tell you, Alexander Valentine's Day, look, I'm talking to Mr. Kinach, Mr. Jeremeyev, Moscow. Please. Comrades, this is a test for you, you want to fight corruption. I understand you're busy today distributing people, your footage regionally on taxes, customs, and all the other monopolies. Don't be afraid to vote and fight corruption, please. One more test, and we'll see the whole society that killed people in Maidan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'm about to put the project in line with the proposal, and I'm asking you to be appointed to the Supreme Council. Please identify yourself with the support and inclusion of Bill No. 4607 of the day, mentioned by the chairman of the committee, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please vote. It's about fighting corruption. Please. [[11:18:45.]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 69, Impact – 14, Economic Development – 2, Sovereign European Ukraine – 14, Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 29. Now, now. Next question. Please turn on the microphone of the people’s MP Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, I address Mr. Cosemyakin first, I think you need to get in the middle of a coalition, agree among yourselves, not to bring your differences outside. Dear colleagues, Bill 4607 is the one that allows every citizen of Ukraine to record the corruption of an official. Today we must vote on this law and allow all Ukrainian societies to fight corruption. Because if the Anti-Corruption Bureau fights one thing, we won't fight corruption. The whole nation must fight corruption, then we have a chance. The other one. I'm talking to the Communist Party and the Party of the Regions. If you don't vote for transparent tenders, corruption will stay. I'm so impressed that you're still involved in these tenders.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u48	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, 4607 I put twice to the vote, unfortunately, I don't see the balance to make this decision. Let's work with the wreckage when there's room readiness, I'm ready to ask that question again. Please, I can see all your hands, turn on the microphone of the People's Deputy Pullibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u49	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, first. Please go back to the question of the review of the bill of illustration in Ukraine. It's a requirement of society, and it's definitely an order of the day, it's 4507. The other one. Bill 4595. We will allow Ukrainians who are abroad to vote more effectively in elections. And not just those who are there in consular accounting, but those who are actually temporarily abroad, as well as those Ukrainians who live far from the constituencies. And the third. 4506, on the holiday day of March 9, Shevchenkov’s Day, on the weekend. The Society, 200 years old to Shevchenkov, let's vote on these three bills. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Oleg Jaroslavovich's proposal and determine yourself by voting. First. 45. Well, as far as I can see, it's not 07, and when it comes to illustrations, it's 4570. Yeah? I mean, it was a mistake. 4570, 4570-1, 4570-2, 4570-3. I ask the Parliament to decide on this issue. Please support the question of illustration. 4570, please vote. [[11:22:27]] For 172 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 1, Fatherland - 71, Impact - 26, Economic Development -1, Sovereign European Ukraine - 17, Freedom - 33, Company - 0, non-fractional - 23. The next proposal was to go back to Law 4595, which regulates the order of voting abroad so that all Ukrainian citizens who are now abroad could be allowed to vote. I can see the hands. in the election, have the opportunity to vote. Please, 4595 support. I ask the Supreme Council to determine how to vote. [[11:23:17]] For-200 Colleagues, I don't understand why we can't simplify the voting procedure for our citizens abroad. The factions, please. 200 votes, no decision taken: The Region Party – 1, Fatherland – 68, Impact – 25, 25 – Economic Development, 21 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 33.0 – Company, non-fractional – 27. Dear colleagues, the following was the proposal, Project 4506, this is about Shevchenkov Day, making it a weekend instead of another weekend that is on the calendar. Please identify yourself from this question. 4506, please vote. [[11:24:09]] For-195 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: The Region Party – 0.72 – Fatherland, 26 – Impact, 8 – Economic Development, 27 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 33.0 – Company, non-fractional – 29. Please turn on the microphone of the Chumak People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to ask you to return to draft Law 4573 on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Without this bill, we will not have visa liberalisation because this is the first requirement of GRECO for visa liberalisation. Moreover, this law is needed to obtain all the loans from all the organizations that can lend us, because this law is one of the requirements for controlling and monitoring the funds that will come to Ukraine. And secondly, I would like to ask you to go back to draft regulation 4345 on amending the Appendix to the Supreme Council Order "On Committees of the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call" on subjects of knowledge, on the transfer of the subject of knowledge to the Criminal Procedures Committee on the issue of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? And so we go back to voting on the Law (4573) related to the fight against corruption. Please ask Parliament to decide on this issue. Please vote. [[11:25:56]] For 180. The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 72, Impact – 30, Economic Development – 0, Sovereign European Ukraine – 23, Freedom – 33, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, there was also an offer to return and support the draft regulation on the activities of our committees, the parliamentary committees are meant to be. Project, I got it right, 4345, right? (4345), please return to this question and support it with a vote on inclusion in the agenda, draft Decree (4345), please vote. [[11:26:51]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Colleagues, I see all hands. Regional Party - 0, Fatherland - 72, Impact - 27, Economic Development - 2, Sovereign European Ukraine - 19, Freedom - 33, Company - 0, non-fractional - 24. Please turn on the microphone of the people's MP Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the very request to support the following bills (4566), (4566-1) is an alternative bill (4644). These bills apply to the state of calculations in the energy market, as well as lawsuits against state energy companies. We have a catastrophic energy situation, we, for information: in March, the energy collection cost 75 percent. In this situation, we're going to lose the miners' wages, we're not going to be able to buy fuel, and we're going to be able to balance our energy system. Therefore, it is a great request to vote in favour of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Back to the question, first two laws: 4566 and 4566-1. These are alternative laws on one issue: energy security. Please support Parliament. Turn on the "Council" system for voting. [[11:28:33]] For 184 The factions, please. Region Party 36, Parenthood 66, Impact 0, Economic Development 14, Sovereign European Ukraine 17, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 18. The next suggestion was to support the draft Law 4644, also related to energy security. Parliament is requested to decide on the inclusion in the agenda 4644. [[11:29:11]] For-149 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, what other suggestions? Oleg Easy, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 4608: on increasing criminal responsibility for illegal placement in state buildings in the territory of Ukraine of state symbols of other states. This is what is happening today mass in Ukraine when they tear down Ukrainian flags and hang foreign flags. I'm talking to the Economic Development Group separately. Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh, please don't vote before this. I'm asking you to support the group. It's important. You're a statesman. You're a fighter. And, Alexander Valentine's Day, here's your offer, two. First. I thought we didn't have Chechchev's light after the revolution. He's still working. Why he's waving his hands. Give him a doctor if he's sick. And if he is in charge of the hall, let him stop running the hall, he is the Head of the Supreme Council. And a second offer. Cover the underground passages from the Supreme Council. Let the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I ask you, was proposal 4608, the law of Ukraine. Please vote on including it in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:30:59]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 0 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 69, 25 – Impact, 20 – Economic Development, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 33 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 27. Please, Olesia Donny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there is a request to return to Bill No.4344. It's Alexander Brigintz's bill, it's about a two-course election system for city heads. Let me remind you that when we were in opposition, it was one of our requirements. This allows us not to distort the interests of voters in elections to local self-government; it is a more democratic system. It's very strange if we're changing positions right now. Therefore, the request is to return to this bill and vote positively. I remind you, No.4344 "On the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village, city heads" (about the characteristics of the election of city heads by an absolute majority of voters). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, do you understand the offer? Bill No.4344, please support. Many millions of our citizens insist on doing so. Please support this project. [[11:32:24]] For 178. The decision is not taken. The factions. 0 – Party of Regions, Parenthood – 71, Impact – 17, Economic Development – 3, Sovereign European Ukraine – 27, 33 – Freedom – 0 – Company, non-fractional – 27. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone of the national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u59	Dear voters, I am addressing you today in Parliament a moment of truth. Today, everything is in place. Please see, fear as a fire of illustrations, fear the mayor’s two - way choices, fear the corruption of Communists, regions, and their fragments. They're afraid of Taras Shevchenk. Can you imagine not voting for Pushkin in Russia? Poland for Mickevich? Because of you, it was you that the great Taras said, "Seals, lifts, dirt of Moscow!"
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you and I to make proposals now. Please turn on the microphone. I see a hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, listen to me carefully. Today our colleagues spoke from the rostrum this morning, criticizing that anti-crisis tax law, which is really awkward, led the taxation of drugs, interest on deposits, and so on. The government realized that the next time such things could not be taken into consideration, the change was made by 4645 and 4647. If we include these bills in the agenda, there's a way for the people's deputies to submit alternatives to them, there's one, two, three. So I have a request, if we're in fact, not in words, that we want to correct the disadvantages of these taxes on drugs, deposits and so on, plus to make NAC Naftogazu feel a deficit, please support the inclusion of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u62	Yes, dear colleagues, there was an offer of 4645, as I understand it, yes or no? And 4647. Okay. Dear colleagues, I beg you, 4645 to remove the contradictions that arose during the previous decision. Please support this proposal. Please vote. [[11:35:24]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions. Regions 0, Fatherland 71, Impact 11, Economic Development 27, Sovereign European Ukraine 27, 33 Freedom, the Company 0.25 is non-fractional. And the offer was 4647. Please, Your Honor, it's also a matter that takes away contradictions in previous tax laws. Please support 4647. [[11:36:07]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Please, colleagues, let's do this one time. Anatoly Kinacha, please turn on the microphone. And then the Zuravian People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, we have shown a very high level of responsibility and adopted a bill to prevent a financial disaster and create an enabling environment for the economic development of the state. So the MP's Economic Development Group is asking you to support Bill 4645, 4646, which allows you to avoid double taxation, reduce social fiscal pressure on Ukrainian citizens. And secondly, we also refer to the Supreme Council and ask that we support the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 4637 of Taxation on the Added Cost of Medicine. A serious social tension has now been created in connection with the absence of normative mechanisms. Deficiencies occur, and this poses a direct threat to our citizens, their health and their lives. Bill 4637 is proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, 4645 we voted and was not supported again. I'm proposing to Anatolia Kinach to support the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4646. Please make your decision on this matter. Please vote. [[11:37:55]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I understand that. I'm asking you to calm down. By factions, please, the Party of Regions 38, Fatherland 59, Impact 11, Economic Development 27, Sovereign European Ukraine 28, Freedom 33, Company 0, non-fractional 28. Dear colleagues, I understand that two votes just didn't work technically. I ask you to put the 4646 to the vote again, and I ask you to work closely with the national MPs. Please vote 4646. Please try to accept it again. Important questions for the day. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and work. Please, Igor Aleksyevich, work. Turn on the "Race" system. [[11:38:58]] For 223 The decision is not taken. I won't ask that question again. I give at least once to the deputies. Some deputies have never spoken. You're starting to have scandals that give you a second chance to say. Please, I'll give you the opportunity to speak out and out of fact. Turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Labunski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u65	Alexander Valentinovich, I wanted to contact you and the hall about four laws on illustration. I think we should consider our principle of work. There were five of them in our trust in judicial authority. Create a working group, you can enter one of them. Work a week, clean up some issues that are already settled. During the next sessional week, we can vote in the first and in general. The question is simply the creation of a working group of drafters. That's an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u66	I support the proposal of the people's representative of Labunsk, and I ask the authors of these projects to come out with one project so that he has a chance to be supported. Dear colleagues, please, the national deputy of Žuravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, I think that in this room, at least those who are currently in session in the Supreme Council, there are no people who are opposed to the territorial integrity, the integrity and assembly of our state. So I'd like to urge you to support Bill 4131. Please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, this is the first 4131 project that can be supported by the Hall, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code (to increase the responsibility for violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine). I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this project with regard to its inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[11:41:13]] For 206 The decision is not taken. The factions. Regions – 1.70 – "Paternity", 15 – "BRA", 28 – "Economic development", "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 28.33 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 30. My dear colleagues, I don't understand when questions related to increasing responsibility for trespassing on territorial integrity, the integrity of Ukraine doesn't get votes, including the faction of the coalition. It's not clear. Please, People's Deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u69	Mikhailo Golovek, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a bill registered by our political power. I'm a co-author of that. But I'm sorry that the Ukrainian Parliament can't even vote to include such a bill in the agenda when today there is a real threat to the sovereignty and integrity of the Ukrainian State, when we see in the East the various Sabbaths financed by the Kremlin, provocations, the capture of administrals, virtually terrorist groups, when it actually threatens the destruction of our state today, and today we don't want to vote this bill in order, but it's a disgrace to all those MPs that don't vote. And that's why the factions, all of you, please hit them, and the Fatherland, all of you who are, please make sure everyone votes. If they don't vote, Ukrainian citizens should know their heroes in the face. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I understand that there is an offer to return to this question. Please, let's go back and support 4131: the draft Act on Strengthening Responsibility for Infringing on Ukraine's territorial integrity and integrity. 4131. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please support us all. [[11:43:19]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 2, 73 – Fatherland, Impact – 22, Economic Development – 11, 28 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 32 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Ladies and gentlemen, please turn on the microphone. Colleagues, and let us sum it up because we are already walking in the fifth circle.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u71	Good day to you all. I'm addressing all those who have not supported Law 4646, especially the members of the Strike, 11 people. You have to understand that this law speaks solely of being able to. Now, you can treat not 20 percent of VAT, but 7 percent. For more than a week now, no pill has crossed the border of Ukraine, since at 20 percent of VAT is not available. And this law speaks solely of people's lives, not in Maidan, but now that they might die, because there will be no medicine in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, is there any point in going back to this question? Is it? Please, Rudzkowski, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u73	I want to support the previous speech. Alexander Valentine's Day, I think we need a representative of the strike party to give the floor to just two laws to comment on why 4646 and 4747, correcting those anti-national mistakes that were made in the Law on Overcoming the Economic Crisis, which was adopted in haste, now the government sees that they need to be corrected, why the faction does not vote. What does she want people to get more expensive? To make more money on this once again? I'm going to strike, comment on your position. Let the Ukrainian citizens understand why, when baseless taxation is either our investments, or at the end of the drugs can't be considered and these short laws repealed. Please take it and tell it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we're not here to discuss, we're making decisions. So once again, when the room insists, I can put these two laws -- 4646 and 4637. Please, Your Honor, determine how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u75	Colleagues, please, Oleg Ivanovich wants this question, I understand? Please, and let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u76	The Freedom faction. I'm asking you to turn on the microphone of the Galeway People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u77	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs, I am very much asking you to go back to Bill 4645 to understand, there is, nonsense. You can't import drugs for 20 percent of the value added tax and then sell them for seven. To date, all pharmacological importers have stopped the spread of drugs. A week from now, we will have Kharkiv, Lugansk, Donetsk events in Kiev and all over Ukraine. If you don't like 4645, I passed an alternative bill yesterday -- 4645-1, which only applies to seven percent of imported medicines and medical equipment abroad. Please identify and vote for either one or the other bill, this is very important for a stable situation in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, let me put these three laws that the MPs are talking about, they're related to one packet, 4645, 4646, 4637. I. 37. [[B in m in s a l in]] So there's a mistake. So 4645, 4646. Okay. Please identify yourself as a colleague. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the Microphone to Deputy Terjehohine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, here's what's relevant to customs is 46, what's relevant to VAT on medicines is 47. And 45 is the administration of this whole sad story. So if you vote, you've got three laws to include. And I'm going to strike, if you have alternative bills on this issue, then after inclusion, in accordance with the Rules Act, you no longer vote in the room, you can register alternative ones, there, fraction one, fraction two. And they won't have to be voted in here for inclusion. Well, know the procedure here. Let's support this package.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I support the national deputy Teryochin, three related laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, can we put them to the vote with a package? [[B in m in s a l in]] Give the National Deputy Homutinik a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u81	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, as chairman of the committee, listen to what is being said so as not to be misled. 4645 — it is really necessary to uphold this law, which clarifies the accuracy of, as it were, the anti-crisis bill that was recently passed. It should be accepted as a matter of April 1, so that the deposit tax will no longer be withdrawn. Now the banks are already fixing these things and they're actually paying this tax, so we have to accept it. 4646, it is also necessary to accept, it is also a correction of nonsense, which was accepted by inflatable people, and it was through an economic committee, not a tax committee. And the last one about the cure is 4637. 4647, it's not a cure, it's a new innovation at all. So ask for 4645 and support, 4646 and 4637. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u82	We're talking about getting into the agenda. We don't look at the content of projects, colleagues. So please, there were 4645 packets, 4646, 4647 and 4637. That's the kind of package I'm putting to the vote right now. Please be supportive. And I will no longer put laws to the vote. All of it! Please make up your mind. [[11:50:45.]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Please, Your Honor, Victor Pinzenik, strike faction. Ginkka, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u83	Thank you. So the position of the impact faction. We are ready to support Bill 4637 concerning medicines. As far as Bill 4646 is concerned, I would like to emphasise that this bill has no relation to drugs. The bill is talking about express transfers of funds that our employees are transferring from abroad. What does this bill have to do with medicines? None. In addition, Bill 4645 needs to be divided into drug issues and the issue of raising excise duties on transport vehicles, more faithfully, raising the rate. And there's an alternative, and there's an alternative that we're ready to consider. Let's not convert everything. Yeah, and the main thing is to put 4637. We're ready to support him. It's the drugs, in fact, we're straightening out this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I see all hands. We've been through all the questions. We've been through all the questions. So I'm going to have to hold consultations with the government during the break, because 4637 we don't have a day-to-day agenda, it's not on the list of issues that are given to the national MPs. I will not make a single law out of my voice. In the bag, I was ready to put and vote in the package. No desire, fellow believers, come on, so we'll discuss the matter separately. We actually spent two hours with you. An hour and a half to put it into the agenda, not to mention the content of these laws, although they could do so by one vote. And even if someone didn't like the law, we could have quietly incorporated it, and when we were determined in the hall, we just didn't support it. So, dear colleagues, I am very sorry for our working time with you, which we are spending on conversations that are not related to the content of these laws, but we simply do. So, colleagues, please. I ask you, Your Honor, there will be a balance of votes; I'll ask the question again; the tenth time I'll ask the question in the hall I won't. That's it, thank you. Please put your hands down. Dear colleagues, we have five minutes, let us consult you for a break. Seven. We can, today is a short day, well, I see that in the hall we're simply, we'll say, we're working, there's no people in the hall. Colleagues, we have a second reading of the draft Act amending some legislation to reduce the number of documents of a permissive nature. And can we adopt this law and then take a break? We can. Please, this is a very important question. Please, Alexandra Ivanovna Kugel. Alexander Volodymyr's Kugel to inform Parliament and determine the national MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u85	Thank you. If you vote, I'm ready, I'm ready, I'm ready, I'm ready, I'm ready, I'm ready, I'm ready, I'm ready. Dear colleagues, this is, indeed, a very important bill. For the first time in 20 years, Parliament has been considering, indeed, deregulation, indeed, is making a serious reduction in those permits that hinder entrepreneurial activities. I would like to remind you that I have the honour of introducing this bill by President Yanukovic as a task of raising Ukraine's rating on transparency and the competitive environment in business. He's been assisted by all the members of the Supreme Council, all of them taking part. What do we have in the end? I will make you a table after the law is passed that you can go to your electorate, who will give you a very transparent understanding, because the law is very difficult. This bill amends 38 laws, 4 codes, 1 Cabinet of Ministers and 33 laws. We're canceling 113 permit documents and clearance procedures, 13 permit documents narrowing down the application. I'm ready to start the law with explanations. The first bill is the Code of Nadra. We're destroying the agreement on the location. We collect all the bills -- once I make an explanation to everyone -- all the consents are removed because there's a permit for the nadra, which predicts everything else. And today's policy has always been this: there's a liberation center, you give up papers -- and you run with each other, agree as much as you can, and we don't touch the subject. Water codex. We're subtracting seven consonants. There is one permit for special water use. I'm filing my papers with an authorized authority, and all seven consents are cleared. Please agree with each other. The Forest Codex. We have two laws today that regulate land allocations -- the Earth Code and the Forest Code. And local authorities choose which of the codes they want to make some changes. And that's why we're bringing everything to the Earth Code. You might want to give an example. When decisions were made regarding the issue of 32,000 acres [32,000 ha] on forest grounds in Crimea, they were made in accordance with the earthly code. And when I said, why didn't they agree with the authorities that should be responsible for forest conservation, they said, "We did, the local authorities made that decision." Codex about.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u86	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u87	Code of Administrative Judiciality. Permission papers are allowed, so if they're going to be taken from you, just through trial. There are no limits to waste generation. Look, you've made them, and you're making them happen. The permission to bury is regulated by the Waste Act. So for every document, there's a confirmation. Please, all MPs, I'm asking you, it's been verified. The only thing I want to hear about these editorial changes. One minute, radio frequency. As for wastes of 50,000 pounds [50,000 kg], the averages did not pay, but only the declaration. With regard to radio frequency, only a register of banned imports remains. Everyone else is getting rid of it. Please, in the editorial section, remove the final position that the radio frequency is three months in force. Please also ensure that all the decisions taken by this commission are posted on your official website. As far as grain is concerned, we eliminate the certification of grain stores and the certification of grain. The fines are off. In addition, it saves as little as $380 million to agricultural producers. The law has been enacted since the day of publication, only in part of the radio frequency – three months later. Thank you. Please uphold the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the content of the law, which is very serious and revolutionary, is understandable. So we're taking down a lot of obstacles and problems. This is not an issue under discussion. Dear colleagues, this is the second reading, I want to remind you. I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. Dear colleagues, please. Alexander Volodymyr, you can sit and vote. We're not discussing this, this is the second reading, I'll remind you, this is the second reading. Can we vote in the committee, Alexander Volodymyrna? We can. I'd like you to give the floor to Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u89	I want to thank the parliamentary majority for finally realizing that the bills initiated by our authorities and our majority, the Yanukovich Bills, are in favour of Ukraine. I thank you for voting for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you not to pry into these issues, but let's do some serious things in the state. So I'm asking you to support the project that was reported by the head of the Committee on Enterprise and Regulatory and Antimonopoly Policy, Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel. Please support me, please vote. 2436, please vote. Please accept in the second reading and in general. Please vote. [[12:00:29]] For 270. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u91	I'm asking you to count my voice, I hit the wrong button.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the 30-minute lead is announced. Please come to the session room after the adjournment of all deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm asking the secretary to invite the national deputies to the hall. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to call their deputies as well. Colleagues! I appeal to your patriotism and your discipline. Well, we have to have self-discipline. Half an hour has passed, there are still no people in the room. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committees should pass at the right time, dear colleagues, after the second hour the committees should pass. And now we have to make decisions in Parliament. Because important questions will be brought to the fore. Dear National Deputies! You and I have a small debt to vote on yesterday. This question relates to the fact that m was not accepted with you, although they were close to this, the changes to the Tax Code, which provide financial and financial support to the state's security, is Project No. 4492 and Project No. 4492-1. And we had an offer yesterday to come back to this issue so that we could still make a decision. But now I'm looking at the Supreme Council Hall, and I can see that there's still no readiness for that. Let's go, dear fellows, then let's move on. Let's go to the second question, because all we have to do is vote. Then let's start with a report on the first reading of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information of Ukraine and Special Communications and Protection of Information. I'd like to ask Mr. Stoick. Do we have Mr Stojko? National deputy Stojko. Please, Your Honor, half an hour off. First of all, I'm making remarks to the faction leaders who can't organize their factions and MPs in the session room. And I ask the honourable leaders to act in accordance with your authority and to ensure the work of factions and MPs. Please, Ivan Mikhailovich, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine. The project is designed to determine the role and location of the State Administration, to optimize the system of central executives, and to function as a government body operating in the area of national security in Ukraine. But under today’s conditions, it is most important to point out that the bill has been drafted in response to what came before us today, before Ukraine, before our nation, and it is aimed at regulating the standards for the implementation of the new tasks and functions assigned to the State Special Branch Service. Events in Crimea, particularly in this regard, have raised questions about the granting of services, such as the State Special Branch and the protection of information on the status of military formation. What are we talking about? This is primarily about the regiments, or military units, of government liaison that existed in the Ukrainian Security Service prior to the establishment of the State Service for Special Liaison. It has happened that, unfortunately, members of the military and military corps of the State Department do not have rights and obligations to participate in war today. The unformed reserve of persons needed to assemble the State Liaison Service during the mobilization process, since the conduct of military service in the reserve and on the reserve is provided for by the Ukrainian legislation for military formations only. In order to prepare the State to carry out the tasks of ensuring the administration of the State in peacetime, a state of emergency and war must be designed and implemented in an appropriate manner. However, legislation provides that these measures are only carried out, as I have already said, with regard to military formations. And so today the bill will be implemented at the expense of the funds allocated to Ukraine's State Budget to maintain this service. I would also like to point out that the adoption of this bill requires an annual additional cost of $450,000, or money. These are small funds for our nation, but they are essential for the proper maintenance of the state’s resources for the mobilization of state special communications, such as the resupply of unbreakable stocks and the conduct of combat training and much more. In accordance with our commission, our committee considered, the National Security and Defence Committee, having considered the bill at its meeting on 19 March and unanimously, I stress that all factions unanimously supported the bill and approved the decision to recommend to us, the Supreme Council, on the basis of the first reading, to accept it as a basis and as a whole as a law. But taking into account those suggestions and observations that were made by science and science management. The Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, recommends that the first reading of the bill be adopted on the basis of the proposals and observations they have made. What I'm saying is that our committee said that we should take this bill as a basis and generally as a law. And for the transcript, I would like to stress that the committee and I, together with the leadership of the Special Forces, have prepared the changes that are proposed by the scientific and expert management and the complement. And I'm going to hand them over to the Head of the Supreme Council so that the apparatus can bring them into the body of the law and so that we can, I'm going to say a few words about what we're talking about so that we can take it as a whole. Here, if you can hear it, it's close. I get it. Now I'm going to give them a sound and say, generalizing what they're talking about. This is about, first, the proposal to unite articles 2 and 3, which states in the following article, namely, the appointment of the State Service for Special Branch, as well as the subordination of the service, the order of military service, the social security of military personnel, and the storage, carrying, and use of firearms. Here's what we're talking about in "The Final Positions" is that we want this bill to take into account the current military-political situation in Ukraine, namely, paragraph 12 of "The Ends" and "The Transitions" as follows: "This law takes effect from the day after the day of its publication," not deferred as suggested at the outset. We also propose that the bill be supplemented by paragraph 13 of the following substance. "The decisions taken to implement the Ukrainian Act on the State Service for Security and Protection of Information of Ukraine" to acquire legal power by this law, i.e. its entry into force, are considered valid." This supplement needs to be done in order to avoid a legal colossal effect on the cessation of the rules of law that have been introduced into the legislative acts of the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Specialization and Protection of Information. So, dear colleagues, I've already pointed out what this is about in these additions and comments from the expert board. We hand them over to the Head of the Supreme Council. And I ask you to support the position of our committee to adopt the law as a basis and as a whole today, because the situation needs and requires the adoption of the Supreme Council as a whole. Because in general mobilization and all that is needed for the defense of Ukraine, the State Service of Special Branch is carrying out, but it does not actually have legal powers. This is the law that strengthens and gives status to the service and gives them rights and powers to act today with the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and they eventually do. Thank you for your attention and hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u95	Thank you, Ivan Mikhailovich. I'm going to ask you, then let's sign up for factions, sign up for factions then, in three minutes, let's say about this bill. Please sign up for three minutes from the factions. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Yuri Bublik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u97	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u98	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. Dear National MPs, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Special Relations and Protection of Information of Ukraine is now more urgent than ever, necessary, and should be approved, I am convinced, and in the first reading, and in general. The bill provides for changes that allow the State Service of Special Liaison to be involved during the war period, particularly in the war zone. We have a special period today, we actually have an annexation of part of the territory of Ukraine today, we have the activities of the diversification groups of the Russian aggressor country in the territory of Ukraine today, we are standing every minute before the threat of a direct military invasion of the neighbouring state into the territory of Ukraine, and a very large-scale invasion. And so we need to create a legal mechanism to engage this important service so that it can be involved both in combat and during wartime. In order to protect information, state control over economic activity does not extend to cryptographic and technical protection of information. In addition, we suggest extending a number of provisions that regulate the police’s activities to a special component of the General Office of the Field Service, which is part of the State Department. At this critical time, the State Department of Special Liaison, which provides information, should receive legislative support. In fact, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority makes a number of comments. They could be taken into account if it wasn't for the period we're living in. We're being noted that we're over-increasing the benefits to Ukrainian military personnel. But if we do not provide protection today, social protection, decent pay, support, housing for our military and all our special services, we will have to provide a foreign army tomorrow. We should all remember that we are living at a time when information war, when war for access to information, war for spreading misinformation is as important as war is technical, war by armies. Therefore, the strengthening of the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection is another aspect of strengthening Ukraine's cybersecurity. We know that today the aggressor party is trying to acquire codes, ciphers, trying to capture a special communications system to destroy the privacy system in Ukraine. That is why I urge all the people here in Ukraine to vote on the basis of this bill as a whole. And later, make changes to other legislation to properly strengthen social protection and support for all our military structures. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u99	Thank you. I'd like to ask the National Deputy Herman, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u100	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This is a good law and the Party of Regions will support it in order for it to be voted in the Supreme Council. Since the parliamentary majority are not really there, this law will not be voted on without us. And once again, we urge the parliamentary majority to go to work and support the laws that you are proposing and to give the co-sponsors mandates and not to violate the Constitution of Ukraine. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u101	Here's to the speech of the national deputy of Yavorowski, the faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina. For a long time, the MP’s eye did not look at this, it would seem, to be very specific and very narrow - minded bill on public service and state protection of special communication. That's why I want to thank John Stoykov on behalf of the "Fatherland" party, who not only looked into this law and felt that he had to be immediately brought into line with the situation in Ukraine, that is, life is the law that he was drafting. I would like to remind you once again that in this case it is a matter of making specifics right up to a number of laws: mobilization training and mobilization, military duty and military service, which is the basis of Ukrainian legislation on health protection, the internal service statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the statute of the garrison and guard service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the disciplinary statute of the Armed Forces, the construction statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's a good thing we finally took care of these people and the system itself. In Soviet times, it was protected as the pupil of the eye, protected by the strongest. During the time of the restoration of Ukrainian independence, we kind of kind of took it that way, but it was Service, whatever it was, and so on. Indeed, here my colleagues, who had been on this high stage before, were able to say that, indeed, and from Freedom of Colleague, they said that, indeed, this is especially important for us today. We know for ourselves that the moment of globalization, which has taken on enormous scales, you know that America today can listen to Merkel's conversations, let's say someone else. So in fact today, it's getting harder, harder and harder to hide. So what about Ukraine, which is now surrounded by armies from all over the occupying country, about Ukraine, where national interests are now being sold to the right and left, when today the same people who are hiding out there are trying to tear the country apart today? That's why it's so important. And I am convinced that this is the responsibility of each of us. There, indeed, John, is the observation of our Chief Legal Authority. Let's see, I think there's a good time. But this law needs to be passed very quickly. And I am sure that we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u103	I would like to welcome you to the words of National Deputy Kulinić, Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u104	Please give the floor to the national deputy Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u105	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone. National Deputy Kuzmuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u106	Dear chairman, high-ranking national MPs! I urge everyone in this room to reconnect with reality. And the reality today is that any aggressor does the first thing that he does, it destroys the governance system of the state, the Armed Forces and other military formations. Sadly, many have succeeded. The reality is that some of the elements of our governance system, our relationship is compromised: this is the seizure of Crimea, the Ukrainian Security Service, and so on. This needs to be restored immediately. At the same time, the State Department of Special Communications and Information Protection has done and is doing everything amazing to restore management in part. Mobilization. And she's doing it. And she's increasing her strength. We need to correct the law today. The public service is part of the security and defence sectors, and there are military officers, not the primary and military warehouses. And you and I are going to be able to significantly strengthen this necessary component of the security and defence sector today. I urge you to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u107	I'm asking Kaplin to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u108	Sergey Kaplin, Vitaly Klitschka Faction, 144 constituency, Poltavščina, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee. In fact, we discussed the matter on the committee. It's certainly relevant. It is certainly to be voted in the Hall today. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the absence in this room of those who, when it comes to demonstrating what loyal supporters they are of the country's defenders, their mothers and their grandfathers, come out on 9 May with flags to fight, when it is necessary to adopt, really, extremely important bills that are meant to lay a foundation for the protection of Ukrainians, Ukraine's integrity, its sovereignty, national security and defence of the country as a whole. Then these politicians, the entire faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, simply come out of the hall, thus betraying the Ukrainian people. Convincedly, every member of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine today must be given 15 years for treason. When we need to adopt very important laws, when we need to take steps to meet Donbas. And today, I would like to emphasize and draw attention to the leadership of the Supreme Council, all the deputies of the Supreme Council, so that my initiative to appoint an authorized South-Eastern Development Authority, the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is to be responsible for the work of the entire Parliament, to raise from the dust those tens, hundreds of bills that have been developed for the social, economic protection of the inhabitants of the Hersonian region, the Odessa region, the Kharkiv region, the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region. These people need to be heard. We have to hold travel sessions there for everyone, without exception, of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in key cities. We should even hold Conciliation Councils there. People should hear that they came to power in the country not to control their fate, to control the businesses in which they work, but to really fight corruption. In fact, give a high quality illustration. To be driven out of the offices of those marauders, the corrupters, the villains who plundered the Donba people, the people who live in the eastern regions, in the southern areas. This is our main task today. People are coming to us and they want us to hear them. And then no provocation of the Kremlin, Putin and the FSB will work, because they will know that we are the only people. We are the only people who are all behind each other, and together they are building a new Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u109	From the non-fractionals, please turn on Oleg Laszko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u110	Oleg Lazko is a radical party. Dear fellow MPs, you know, I'm sorry to hear that a member of the Party of the Regions comes out to this rostrum and complains to the pro-government coalition that it is unable to vote in Parliament without the support of the regionals. And that is true, dear God’s right hand. I have a question: what is this coalition that should depend on those who helped Yanukovich rob the country? What is this coalition that depends on those responsible for killing Ukrainian citizens in Maidan? Who is responsible for the division of the country, for separatism? Does the country need such a coalition?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u111	Mr. Oleg, according to the bill, be flattering.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u112	I'm basically a bill. That's essentially the bill. Because we can't have any drafts here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u113	Do you support or criticize?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u114	So please, let me tell you essentially the raised question. Thank you. You'd beat up regionals like that, not brothers. So I want to say that the Supreme Council, when in conditions where the country is in a state of emergency, when the country is in military aggression, the Supreme Council has either to work or the Supreme Council doesn't need it. I therefore urge that, in order to ensure the work of the Supreme Council, the co-sponsors should immediately draw up mandates. The MPs who will work must enter the bill. First. The other one. One hundred percent of people should be provided every day. The Supreme Council has to work without interruption every day while we watch the congestions in the east, in the south of Ukraine that are being seen. I call for decisive action and opposition to separatists. In the midst of diplomatic, legal, economic, military action. I beg your pardon, colleagues, Vice-Speaker Koshulinsky correctly, or anyone there, Kuzmuk rightly said. Let us establish a relationship with reality. Whoever lost this contact, get out of the hall and go to Lugansk. I was in Lugansk three times in two days. Go to Donetsk, go to Kharkiv, and you will see that the situation in Ukraine is quite different than it seems in the Supreme Council Hall. And so I ask you to lay down on the ground and understand that if Parliament does not work now, if Parliament does not make the necessary decisions, there will be no Ukraine. Can you hear me or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, we have an opportunity to make decisions now. Please, colleagues, calm down, please. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, you and I have considered Law 4432, and it has been discussed to the full. And we can make decisions now. The committee's proposal is to accept it in the first reading. Let's say in the first reading, when we accept, then there will be proposals, we can vote in general. Dear colleagues, please sit down, invite the deputies to the session room, we'll make a decision. Please support the adoption of the project (4432) The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Service for Information Protection in the First Reading. Please vote. [[13:05:43]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you know, because of our disorganizedness, we need to re-vote the law a few times. Please, colleagues, come into the hall and sit in your seats. I realized that there was a suggestion to return to that question. Let's try that. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to return to the consideration of this matter once again. Please vote on this proposal. Who's "for" (please, in your seats, colleagues), support. Please vote. [[13:06:35]] For 232 Until we lose the inspiration to vote, please support this law in the first reading. Please vote. [[13:06:56]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an overall proposal to vote on it. Is there no objection? Please support this law as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u116	It's got to be taken into account. [[13:07:19]] For 227 Decision taken. Hello. I understand they were bugged, I just wasn't in the discussion of this law. For 227, sir. By factions, please show me. Region Party 31, Parenthood – 70, 18 – Impact, 26 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 28, Freedom – 28.0 – Company, 26 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, we discussed with you yesterday the issue of changes to the Tax Code (as regards the strengthening of the financial security of the state). This is the bill of the People's Deputy of Pankevitch. And they asked in the evening, there was, you know, a meeting to conclude, to come back to that question and make a decision on the basis and in general. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the first reading, I was wrong. Okay, calm down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to return to this question? Yes. Please support the proposal and return to the matter so that we can make a decision. That question was discussed in detail yesterday. Projects 4492, 4492-1 of the Draft Law amending the Tax Code to increase the financial and financial security of the State. These are tax benefits for those who support the army, and I'll remind them what they're talking about. Dear colleagues, please support. [[13:09:03]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Unfortunately, Parliament does not want to go back to this issue. The factions, please. Region Party 2, Fatherland 66, Strike 22, 23 Economic Development, 26 Sovereign Ukraine, Freedom 28.0 Company, 25 non-fractional. Dear colleagues, can we support the rereading of the first reading? Both laws for rereading the first reading. I beg of you, Your Honor, we will support the country's security. Let's go back to the committee and re-read it so they can work it out. Please support the offer. Please vote. [[13:09:51]] For 197 Unfortunately, the projects are not supported, for 197. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. This is a package of laws 4017-1, 4267, 4267-1, 4267-2. They actually regulate the same question. I'm going to announce the names of these projects: the draft Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens who have suffered during the Peace Meetings and the draft Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, to grant status to persons who have suffered during peaceful protests. We have four laws that regulate one problem, an important problem, and respectable colleagues. There is a suggestion that we look at these issues in a simplified way so that all the authors can speak. No objections? There's no objection. Please support the Supreme Council's proposal to deal with this issue with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:11:10]] For 176 Decision taken. For 176 votes. I'm asking the reporter on this. Please, National Deputy Kotelak Lydia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u117	Lydia Kotelak, 123th constituency, Fatherland faction. Dear Ukrainians! There's been a dignity revolution in the country. We fought for our freedom. To an independent and sovereign state. We won. But the price of our victory is hundreds of casualties and thousands of casualties. According to the Ministry of Health, as of March 18, 2014, 104 participants in peaceful action died and died on November 30, 2014. It was only from February 18th to March 3, that a thousand and thirty - nine injured persons were turned to Kyiv’s medical facilities. Of these, 675 are hospitalized. There are many reports of hospitalization, of first-time medical care, of the urgent removal of injured people to the Chinese homes, of women deputies from the Faction "ADA", of the faction "The Fatherland" who carried the value of the hospitals in Kiev. That's why we, the authors of Bill 1017-1, Lydia Kotelak and Andrew Senchenko, are participants in peaceful actions that have seen all of the terrible abuses of our law enforcement agencies, of our "Berkut", not of our own, but of theirs, we are proposing for the consideration of the Supreme Council a bill on the status and social protection of citizens who have suffered during peaceful action. The bill proposes to establish the status of persons who have suffered during peaceful meetings. The draft act identifies the following categories of victims: family members.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u118	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u119	Those involved in peaceful meetings have been injured or disabled, persons who have been persecuted for participating in peaceful activities, and those attending peaceful meetings where property has been destroyed or damaged. The bill does not extend to law enforcement officials and military personnel, since their social protection is carried out in accordance with other laws. A list of documents to determine the status of the injured person is provided. These are documents from medical, law enforcement, and other competent authorities. In addition, video and audio recordings can be used to confirm the status, as well as documented testimony by those involved in peaceful action. The bill provides for the provision of financial assistance to injured persons in the following dimensions: members of families of the deceased (dead) party to the peace shares – a 100-fold subsistence minimum; persons who have received injuries during peaceful meetings resulting in a total loss of employment, 50-fold subsistence minimum; persons who have received injuries resulting in partial loss of employment, 40 subsistence minimums; participants in peaceful actions that have destroyed or damaged property are paid one-time cash assistance in the amount of compensation for the value of the damaged or destroyed property. This aid will be paid by the public welfare authorities at the location of the victim at the expense of the funds to be provided in the State Budget for the central executive body, which ensures the formation of public policies in the field of labour relations for the social protection of the population. Considering that the bill provides for the determination of the size and conditions of financial assistance to the affected persons and for the establishment of additional benefits for them, it is proposed that the Ukrainian Act on State Aid to Victims of Mass Action and Members of Their Families be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the authors of other laws to have the opportunity to speak, please, Ilik Roman Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u121	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121st constituency, Drogbychkin. Dear Ukrainians, dear fellow national MPs, on March 23 died one of the last, most likely, participants in the peaceful struggles of Hanja Peter. This is a person who has been treated for over a month in Kiev's 12th hospital, who has received gas burns of bronchials and lungs and, unfortunately, this man's life has failed to save, like most of those heroes of the Celestial 100 who have died either directly in Maidan or who have suffered injuries that are incompatible with life. I think the newly elected president of Ukraine is going to issue one of the first decrees saying that these characters are actually going to be called the hero of Ukraine, the real national hero of Ukraine. The essence of the bill (4267) is very simple, among the people who suffered in Maidan there are so many who lost hands, lost legs, lost eyes, and became disabled. So some one - time help that they may not be as big as they are will not solve the problems that they have experienced for life. Therefore, the bill suggests that for persons with disabilities, through peaceful struggles, they would be able to gain the status of persons with disabilities of war. And the order in which the relevant categories are defined, as well as those in relation to these categories, can be made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine along with the profile committee. By the way, this bill has been considered by the profile committee, and these are the benefits that are essential for people with disabilities who have this disability, and these are the benefits of providing free medicine, the benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u122	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u123	Social services benefits, transportation benefits, that sort of thing. This was mentioned many times in Maidan, and we talked a lot about it here in Parliament. This was discussed by individual government officials. Today, the Chinese, in principle, have already resolved this issue for us, for the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When we go to work in the morning on the streets of the Institute, they're already hanging plates that it's the "Heroes of the Celestial 100". But when we go down below, we see that there's aleia of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. So with regard to the alternative bill, 4267-1, we agreed with Valeri Mikolayovich Suskevitch that, given the necessity, the relevance, namely the importance of the required law, we accept my bill as a basis, and in the second reading we will introduce all the necessary amendments and amendments and then we will accept it as a whole. In conclusion, I want to say that on the committee, when this bill was followed, it was supported by representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics, the State Service. And I am addressing you, honourable fellow MPs, to support this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I request the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Suskevitch Valeri Mihajlovich, please. Valerius Mikhailovich, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u125	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Head of the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Fatherland faction. Alexander Valentine's Day, I want to say that I have an author and a bill of my own, but three bills that you have called: both Mr. Ilika and colleague Sold, I am ready and must act as chairman of the committee at the end, already after the fact of these three bills. And now, essentially, the bill that we prepared, along with honorary colleague Rosenko Paul Valeriovich, and it refers to the situation that is the reality of the public protests that took place in Ukraine during November 2013 – February 2014. You know, tragic events. People did not feel sorry for their health, their lives, to gain a future for the Ukrainian nation, and to support the Ukrainian people. War was fought for Ukraine’s future. And this bill, realizing that there are clearly tragic moments in losing the health of many people who were in Maidan and that many people lost their lives; young boys, girls -- people who did not regret their lives to gain Ukrainian independence and Ukrainian statehood. The bill proposes: First. The right to establish the status of a war invalid to persons with disabilities as a result of injuries or other health injuries suffered during mass protests. And the second point of my bill, along with my colleague Rosenko, is that we offer not to forget families who have lost their lives. Who lost those people who did.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u127	Our heroes who didn't regret their lives. And the bill proposes to grant the right to establish the status of a member of a family who has died or died as a result of injury, injury or disability, other health injuries to participants in peaceful public protests that took place in Ukraine during the period indicated. So I propose to support these two positions of our bill. I note that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has supported mine. our legislative initiative with my colleague Rosenko, and I ask you to support this bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that I agree with the National MP Ilik that our common position can be based on his bill, and that we should work on the position of our colleague Rosenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u128	Thank you. Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Oksani Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u129	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, I present you with a bill that, although introduced by the Supreme Council's apparatus as an alternative, is actually quite different. And I thank the committee, the Committee on Veterinary Affairs, Pensioners and Disabled Persons, who supported the proposal of the authors to separate him and look into the room separately. We propose our bill to recognize the law enforcement officers, the military, the border guards who were on Ukraine's watch in Crimea. Who stood by and returned to Ukraine without betraying their oath to claim the status of "attemptors." Advocacy of this status will be a recognition to us with you that these people were really advocates, that they were standing there with guns and not shooting. Because they carried out the command. They stood there and did not release those premises that tried to capture the first green men, then the Russian Federation Armed Forces. We didn't give them anything else. We haven't provided them with proper housing right now, we haven't secured them, we haven't brought them out of Crimea yet. But to admit that they fought, to admit that they were unarmed against armed invaders, we should be with you. Which presupposes the granting of the status of "attractors of hostilities", provides for the recognition of 14 benefits. Giving 14 benefits, which by law do not work 12. In fact, they will receive, in addition to their moral support and recognition of their standing on the watch of Ukraine, two benefits. It's utility benefits and housing benefits, 75 percent of the value that's set for everyone else. I want to thank Mr. Kuzmuk for supporting the bill and saying he would be with the co-authors, along with the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u130	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u131	And he said that he would be preparing a bill with a committee for second reading to determine all the nuances of when these events were taking place, who should be given the status of the participants in the fighting. I very much ask you all to support this bill in the first reading, 4267-2 and please put to the vote 7 days of preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I agree with Oksana Petrovna that really, these laws have the same name, but they regulate different issues. So I would suggest that we look separately at 4017-1, 4267, 4267-1 and consider Bill 4262 separately. Because regardless of the name, they regulate, I emphasize, different questions. I agree with the reporter here. Please, Valery Vasilovich Puckan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u133	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Committee has considered the bill 4017-1 and also requests that all legislative acts on the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations should be limited because the committee has issued a warning that the adoption of the bill in the draft may lead to a reduction in the amount of one-off assistance to persons who have acquired the status of victims during peaceful action already established by the law of Ukraine "On the establishment of State aid to the affected participants in the mass action of public, public protest and members of their families since 21 February 2014. We propose as a committee on the outcome of the discussion bill 4017/1 to accept as a basis and try to consider it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, please sign up for two in favor, two in favor. Is there any chance, Valery Mikhailovich, that you could speak at the end? Please, Tomenko, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I wanted to thank the authors who responded to these problems, the participants or observers and the participants we saw when people, without thinking about their health, their lives, stood up for the freedom, democracy and independence of Ukraine. I think these bills need to, in these bills, identify the problems that need immediate solutions and think about how to make out of these four maybe one or two bills that solve this problem. So the first problem. I don't think this is about getting help. Because once we helped, that's what we did, so let's just say, atone for it. This should be the systemic support of those who have died by category: the families of those who have died, the category of those who have been disabled, and the category of those who have suffered physically and need treatment. The second situation is related to what colleagues have already said, namely, recognition, status. Because I represent my Afghan brothers, who today 25 years after their withdrawal from Afghanistan have virtually no real social assistance, but have a moral and political satisfaction that the state recognizes and respects them. And third, Alexander Valentine's Day, an equally important position that is not foreseen in the laws, but that we must respond to. Perhaps on Friday, when the day of government comes, we should listen to our law enforcement officers and realize that we have not forgotten that these people have been killed, these people have been tortured, these people have been taken out by someone. You know, in Cherkaszczina, a well-known journalist blogger was found dead at the end of the protest. Before that, he wrote about the abuse of criminal authority and some members of the Party of the Regions. I do not blame anyone, but such investigations must be conducted. And we have to listen here and put a dot over "and" in who has to be responsible for murder and torture against peaceful people.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u136	People's MP Miroshnichenko, Freedom faction. He's giving the word to Bogdan Benjuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Bondan Benjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u138	Dear friends, I would like to draw our attention to this problem. We always have beautiful benefits and laws that we want to put into the agenda, we're a little late. And we're late because it turns out that the desire to help, to celebrate, to preserve the memory of those people who were in the revolution in Ukraine has brought along a huge number of other problems that are then related to the events that unfolded in us in Ukraine. There, as you can see, we now have different laws that seem to explain different subjects of the problem. And God forbid that every subject should be drawn by the fact that we would not be able to enforce these laws at all. And so it's very important to start with something, make a foundation, and we'll continue to understand the importance of those things. Now we will not be able to take into account all the nuances that will appear every day in our lives. And we will certainly add to those laws. But to adopt a law that primarily regulates these things for those who sacrifice themselves, or for those who do not, is a sacred duty. The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will always stand for the protection of Ukrainians, especially those patriots who serve Ukraine or have died for the benefit of Ukraine. Thank you, Heroiam!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u139	Thank you. Faction Impact, People's Deputy Rosenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u140	Please pass the word to Victor Chumaku.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u141	Please turn on Victor Chumak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u142	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, Kiev, Dniprovsky district Dear colleagues, I would like to support you in adopting this bill in the first reading. I would like to say that, first of all, we need to make certain technical legal procedures for these first three bills, namely: 4017-1, 4267, 4267-1, to merge into second reading in one project and to contain exactly those rules that regulate the social protection of citizens who have suffered during peaceful meetings. But especially I would like to draw your attention to the need to support and accept separately, to vote separately for Bill 4267-2. This is true of our military and law enforcement officers who were in Crimea during these actions. Whoever was in Crimea saw the very difficult conditions of military service and law enforcement during the occupation of Crimea during the direct aggression that took place there by the Russian Federation. We're late for that law, we're very late. Because this law was discussed with you in the early days when the Crimean events took place. We should at least support today our military ones, the small part that is being pulled out of the Crimea that is now in Ukraine, and give them the minimum benefits that can be granted today. But admitting to them the status of people who actually took part in hostilities. The fact that there were fighting actions, perhaps not of a typical nature, we all saw with you. The fact that they were very intense and psychological warfare -- we saw it, too. And what these people have experienced there is their heroic act, their heroic behavior, we have to honor it, and we have to pay this debt to these people. I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, please, the national deputy of Cibenko, and for one minute, please ask the national deputy of Zarubinsky. We'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, was one of the first social protection laws in post - Soviet Ukraine. Then he took under his wing, under his protection the most disadvantaged categories of the population. He performed and performed his vital function. But I want to speak to you now, Valery Mikhailovich. Valerius Mikhailovich! Valerius Mikhailovich Suškević! Valerius Mikhailovich Suškević! Valerius Mikhailovich Suškevitch, I want to address you! We have worked with you for a long time on the Committee of Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. We have done everything we can to ensure that the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection are only those categories that have a direct bearing on it. And there were attempts, you and I know, to install diplomats there, there were attempts to install peacekeepers there. Our initiative was to adopt the Law on Social Protection for Victims of Nazi Persecution. But, dear fellows, I'd like to ask you, if you please, not to change the law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u145	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u146	Because by adhering to the status of a participant in hostilities, we thus recognize the existence of war. Yes, there was opposition, yes, there were collisions, yes, they were killed, on both sides, but in a totally horrible sense of that word I hope there was no war. So I'm asking you, dear colleagues, to adopt a separate law, but don't put on one board of a 90-year-old frontist who spent four years rotting in trenches, dirt, wetlands, and a 20-year-old student's boyfriend assigning that status. Adopt a separate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. And we'll make a decision, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u148	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! As for Bill 4267-1, there seems to be no questions, there's a clear identification of the people who did it. Regarding the first three bills, I immediately want to say that I view them as humane, humanistic and I will vote for them. But I have a question. Who will identify these people who are affected? Who, which organ, which institution? Do you understand what this is about? Today, my esteemed colleague has said, and apparently, this is almost official information that 9 million people have gone through all over the country for three to four months. Once again, 9 million people. Of course, it was on condition that it is clear how many of these people, if there are 9 million, are those who are affected. I have this in mind, despite the reduced procedure, the question is: I would like the government to make it clear that at least a few people are going to be affected by this -- a. "B" is the cost of the budget, except for the first one where you said 110 million dollars is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u149	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u150	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. 110 million is the fact that Kotelak, the bill, is clear here. And the second and third bills are how much money and how many people are there, and who's going to make it real, is this person hurt, you know? Not in another part, because witnesses will always be found. Well, let's be honest! So we don't have to have a situation where the Chernobyls, which we have so much, we just have to be the seeds, so that we don't have a situation where we have more participants in World War II than we have in Russia, which has three times the population. So the question is identification. And it's worth voting for these humane bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u151	Please, taking into account the proposal, I ask that you give the head of the Suškevitch Valery Mikhajlovich committee a minute, and then comment from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u152	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. The honourable colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, have discussed at the meeting all three bills that have just spoken, and I want to say that, in fact, the situation in the Supreme Council has just come to light from the authors. The first decision taken by the committee is the inability to consider the bill of colleague sold by number 4267-2 as an alternative. It certainly touches another question, Alexander Valentine's Day is honorable, you said it should be taken separately, not as an alternative. I ask you to vote on that. And the committee is proposing to take it as a basis -- this is the first decision of the committee. The committee's second decision on the two bills, 4267 and 4267-1, is alternative. I want to say that unfortunately, the committee also divided the votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u153	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u154	And unfortunately, the committee's decision was not able to adopt one of these bills. So, Alexander Valentinovich, determine which of the bills today is to be supported and to be combined, of course, as those working on one topic. And last of all, I want to say about the point that my colleague Zibenko made. I want to say that, indeed, during the committee's discussion, a number of public organizations of veterans have expressed, let's say, doubts as to the appropriateness of introducing these provisions, which apply to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. I may have agreed with some of these questions, but, dear friends, we may have been able to resolve for a very long time the questions of our heroes who have died, who have been injured, injured, and disabled in connection with the events in Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask the government to comment. Government representatives comment on this package of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u156	Let me also express the government's opinion on these bills. I want to point out that today we were calculating Bill 4017, the very first bill, and we were calculating the exact costs that are required today to implement this law. Besides, it's about 110 million dollars. As far as the law is concerned, why we rely on it, for this law is primarily made clear by those on whom the law applies, the basis for determining the status of those affected by participation, during peaceful meetings, the list of documents needed to confirm the status. So this bill is specifically designed for action. And after its adoption, we can see how for two or three months we can implement it, because it has the ability to determine the status today at the same time and it will not be necessary to amend the budget code, but to use the subsidy that is budgeted today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-09-m0.u157	I see. Dear colleagues, once again, I stress that we have four draft laws under consideration, but there are three of them actually regulating one issue: this is the question of peaceful assembly participants. These are projects: 4017-1, 4267, 4267-1. I would just like us to look at them now, and then consider Law 4267-2, the law of Oksana Prodan, which concerns our military, which protected Ukraine in the Crimea. So the honourable colleagues, the proposal and the government, I understand, and the professional committees: of these three first laws (4017-1, 4267, 4267-1), one of them is to be adopted on a basis so that it can be further developed. The government is proposing to support 4017-1. Dear colleagues, I'm in line, as they register, now I'm going to put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please! Colleagues are part of the presidential campaign! Peter Alexiovich! Colleagues, we are about to vote on a serious matter. Peter Alexiyovich, do not distract the deputies. And I'm asking you to come to the hall. So, dear fellows, I'm re-establishing my position. Both the committee and the government support that 4017-1 should be based on the first reading. Colleagues, I'm putting the question to the vote: support 4017-1 in the first reading, taking it as a basis. Please vote. [[13:44:58]] For 168 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. "Regions" – 1, "Fatherland" – 71, "Smack" – 24, "Economic development" – 4, "Sovereign European Ukraine" – 21, "Freedom" – 27, "Company – 0, non-fractional – 20. Dear colleagues, the next law is to vote No.4267. Please, he also regulates the matter. On the basis of that, please support. [[13:45:34]] For-170. The decision is not taken. Last law in this block. Please show by factions and we will vote on the last law of this block. Regions – 1.70 – "Fatherhood", 28 – Klitschko, 5 – "Economic development", 21 – "North European Ukraine", 27 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 18. The last law in this block is No.4267-1. I would like to ask the Parliament to accept it as a basis. [[13:46:15]] For 168 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I'm speaking from the Hall, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, an important question, let's send all three laws to ugly first-reading to work out one law on their basis. No objections? Let's try to do this, please. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[13:46:48]] For 193 The decision is not taken. It's too big. By factions, please show me. Region Party – 3, 72 – Fatherland, 29 – Impact, Economic Development – 20, Sovereign European Ukraine – 20, 27 – Freedom – 30.0 – CPU, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, we have very little time left to work in Parliament. I don't. Oh, sorry, thanks. Thank you for your correction, for your help, dear colleagues. We still have Law No.4267-2, which regulates issues relating to the granting of martial law to our military, who have done their constitutional duty in the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Colleagues, No.4267-2, I'm asking you very much to support this bill on a basis. Please, Your Honor, support this project. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[13:47:59]] For 201 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 5 – Regions, 71 – Fatherland, 30 – Impact, 24 – Economic Development, 21 – "North European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 26.0 – Company, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues, I think we should go back to that question. I think that we, honourable colleagues, should not be ashamed of Parliament or of ours, let us say, citizens who trust Parliament. And I would ask my fellow believers that we return to this question the next time and be determined by it. Dear colleagues, we have very little time left, and I see a timetable in Parliament. Therefore, the offer, the honourable colleagues, to accept only a decree, we will no longer be able to accept the law. Adopt Order 4482 on the amendment to the Supreme Council Order on the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the city of Barwinkovo Barwinkovsky district of Kharkiv district. Dear colleagues, no objection to accepting? I would ask everyone to vote, it's not a difficult question without discussion. No objections? Please support and vote on the ruling without discussion. I would like to vote for that. [[13:49:31]] For 216 I see that Parliament is not prepared to work on even simple issues. We're closing today's session. The Supreme Council will resume its work tomorrow at 10 a.m.
