ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. The Supreme Council will begin its meeting. Traditionally, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome our national deputies to celebrate their birthday. Irina Dmitrovna's birthday today. Please welcome her. [[Applause]] Take off Oleg Igorevich's birthday. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we also have a very important question today. March 14th. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word, absolutely. Dear colleagues, we will conduct the procedure, and I will certainly give everyone the opportunity to speak up, to tell everyone my principle of position. Dear colleagues! On March 14, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Merikov Vadim Ivanovic, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency, is included in the electoral list of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy Merikov Vadim Ivanovich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine! I am committed to defending Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u3	Welcome to Vadim Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would like to announce that a statement has been made by Vadim Ivanovich Merikov. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report my membership in the Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the application came to me now. Please announce a recess at the request of two factions -- the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party -- to make a statement. I understand you don't have to take a break. We need to be able to make a statement. Do I get it right? Please, National Deputy Shufrich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u4	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to honor the moment of silence for the memory of those who died yesterday in Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the dead man who was killed in Donetsk, too, so that we and the people who died in Kharkiv may also honor a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, we celebrated yesterday a moment of silence in the memory of our dead Ukrainian citizen, who, unfortunately, died in opposition to Donetsk. A new government took place in Ukraine. You remember how the Supreme Council of Ukraine came together to bring peace, stability, and order to the country. Unfortunately, we see that almost every day people die in Ukraine, yesterday in Donetsk, yesterday in Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please give us a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u8	I emphasize, yesterday in Donetsk, yesterday in Kharkiv, regardless of political views, unfortunately, people continue to die. And whoever's not talking right now is in power today to ensure the peace and security of our citizens. We are doing our utmost today to ensure stability and order in the country. But it is very difficult to do so when in regions with certain moods right - winged radicals are sent out to provoke opposition. We ask the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] We heard a statement yesterday from the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, please give us a chance to finish the speech. Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u10	Have stamina! Have some stamina, colleagues! Allow me to finish the speech. Guys, hold on, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm addressing all the national MPs. Everyone has the right to say, give the opportunity to finish the speech. I'll allow every faction to step out of the Supreme Council's rostrum right now. Allow me to finish the speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'm asking you to stand by and let me finish the speech. Then you'll have the opportunity to comment on it. Colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! A break of 15 minutes is announced. After that, I will allow every faction to speak, thank you. Colleagues, break 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u11	I'm asking you to take your seats. I hope that now we will restore the normal work of our Parliament. To see how many deputies are working now, I ask you to sit down, once again, colleagues, calm down, sit in your jobs, insert your MP cards. And let's see how many national deputies we've registered. Please turn on the Council system and register people's deputies who sit in their jobs. Please, everyone in the towers of the Supreme Council, please come into the hall and the Supreme Council Secretariat will ask me to help with this. Invite all the deputies. I want you to run the registration. [[12:20:38]] There are 290 national deputies in the hall. The Supreme Council can work and make responsible decisions. Please continue, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u12	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I began my speech from the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine was united in order to have peace, peace, and order in the country. Today, we must do our utmost to make it impossible on the streets to see people with guns, so that, if it is people’s will, they will be exclusively peaceful, and the state will guarantee them that right. We do not want the authorities to repeat the mistakes of the previous authorities. We are absolutely convinced that in this room we will find the strength and wisdom to make those decisions so that the citizens of our country will really feel safe and secure when the state cares for their security. We have to gather all the weapons from the streets of our country, no matter where it is, whether it's in Kharkiv or Donetsk or Kiev or in Frankish or Lviv. There must be law and order in Ukraine. We demand an objective investigation into all deaths when our citizens are confronted in Donetsk, Kharkiv, and in other parts of the country. We ask that the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney-General be invited to the next first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report on how investigations are conducted within the limits of what is allowed and to tell what steps are being taken in Ukraine to ensure peace and order. This is our main goal and requirement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! I want to say that the executive power, the power structures have been given a clear order from both the Supreme Council and the Chief of the Supreme Council, and from the executive duty of the President, there will be no weakening of anyone who violates the law, walks with arms, uses weapons for no purpose, no matter where they happen in Kiev, in Lviv, in Donetsk or in Kharkiv. There will be one law for all! And those who are trying to destabilize the situation today are trying to seize the premises, try to deal with violations of the Constitution and the law, working for those who are trying to annex the territory of Ukraine today, working for the enemies of the Ukrainian people! And I'm talking to colleagues who call themselves opposition today, and I'm asking you to make an objective assessment of the situation. You don't know the worst thing about us is who's organizing a mass protest in Eastern Ukraine. This is the Kremlin agency that organizes and pays, which creates provocations that lead to the killing of people. And I ask that we properly call things our names and make decisions accordingly. Dear colleagues, let us allow the representative of each faction to speak. Let's write it down and make three minutes of performances from each faction. From the sovereign European country, the national deputy of Jeremeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u14	Dear Head, please pass the word to Alexander Donya.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u15	Please turn on Alexander Donya's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, as we spoke in this room, we have repeatedly said that Putin and Russia are not just going to stop at Crimea. The aggression will continue. And what's happening now in Donetsk and Kharkiv and elsewhere is a plan to destabilize our state. In this situation, we cannot afford not only weakness but also idleness and helplessness. So, my friends, we need more than just a decision to dissolve the illegal Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Once again, it is necessary to increase the executive vertical of power. I've just returned from a meeting with the management of veteran organizations, all formerly strong structures. It's not just me anymore, and they're demanding the creation of headquarters after Ukraine's exit from the crisis. They say there's a headquarters. Excuse me, who's running the headquarters? Who goes in there? Where is the coordination of all structures and not just the forces? I set an example now. Last Tuesday, I was saying here that unfortunately, our nation, in the form of an RNB and government, is not conducting counter-promotions against the referendum. Look, I told you to put out a newspaper. The state didn't let go. Our team, with the help of our group, created a Russian-speaking newspaper called Real Crimea, so that people wouldn't go to the referendum, we distributed 150,000. Why can we do this and the state cannot? How so? Why the inactivity of the GNP and the government? When will the activity finally begin? Enough to share your wallets. Next. As for the Party of the Regions, now in Crimea, members of the Party of the Regions are making an anti-constitutional decision. Where is your decision to disband the Crimean organization of the Party of Regions and exclude members from the Party of Regions? If you don't make that decision in one day, then the Party of Regions is responsible for the anti-constitutional actions that are now taking place in Crimea. And that means a straight path to banning the Party of Regions. You have one day to save, not just the renown, but to save the situation in Crimea with your hands. Friends, enough idleness, we have to act at last. They won't stop at Crimea, they want all of Ukraine. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u17	The word is given by the "Freedom" faction of Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u18	Glory to Ukraine! Dear society, today all Ukrainian patriots, all the people who hold any position in the executive power, in the legislative authority, in the judiciary, should be the only one. Today we have a responsibility to the Ukrainian nation, to the Ukrainian society for preserving the territorial integrity of our nation, for preserving national sovereignty. And that's why I'm surprised that the Party of Regions today behaves this way -- insolently, anti-Ukraine. Not only are you responsible for the deaths that occurred during the Dignity Revolution. Not only are you responsible for the separatism that is taking place in Crimea today. It has already been pointed out that of the 90 deputies who vote in Crimea against Ukrainian statehood and contrary to the Ukrainian Constitution, most of them, about 80, are representatives of your political power. So you're allowed to go to the rostrum right now and start talking about what the authorities tolerate about coming into the Moscow agency. Wasn't your policy when you were flooding the Ukrainian government with the Moscow Kremlin Agency for the past four years? When the officers, the generals, became representatives of the Russian special forces when the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Security Service, the law enforcement agencies were flooded by a Moscow agency that deliberately destroyed and destroyed Ukrainian statehood when the Moscow agency was introduced into the central and local authorities. The representatives of the Party of Regions should be responsible for this. Of course, I am sorry that the people of Crimea cannot hear us today. But if you get information that you have to open people's eyes for the lie that you're told about, it's like a paradise life when Moscow comes and rules your territory. Do you think they'll raise your pension? Do you think they'll give you social security, give you medical guarantees? But Moscow has its problems above its head. You see what is now being done in social terms with regard to those people who have been deceived and told by those who lived in Abkhazia and South Ossetia? They didn't get anything. Moscow Crimea is not interested, it is already quite obvious. They're interested in destroying Ukraine, and they're interested in dividing, spreading Ukraine. That's why they're talking about the need for a kind of federal division of the unitary Ukrainian state. That's why they're now starting to say that they're demanding a second state language of Russian, not for the protection of the Russian language, because no one is insulting them here, but for the destruction of the Ukrainian language. That's why they want to introduce dual citizenship, they want to ensure that they can stay permanently in this territory. We can't let that happen. Today, all as one who does not vote is a traitor, disband the Crimean Parliament, punish the guilty and protect the territorial integrity. And, Lord forbid, you shall not vote! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u19	Dear National MPs, Economic Development, National Deputy Zurawski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, our group for the dissolution of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. But I would like you to listen to the legal element, because, remember, after the decision, there will be appeals to international institutions, to the courts. So I'm going to take the basic document that we should use -- the Constitution of Ukraine. I quote: "The permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea should be due to the Constitutional Court's finding that there is no alternative election to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Council of the Republic of Crimea." The decision of the Constitutional Court, which we have just now, relates to the conduct case. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, let's finish. The case concerns the holding of a local referendum in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I understand the shouting and the reading of this law, and it says, there is such a phrase that on the basis of the material of the case, the Constitutional Court concluded that the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime had violated the Constitution. But the subject was about a local referendum. I'm saying we get out of those trials that might happen? Here's the Rules (Article 237). I quote: "The proposal to terminate the term of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea may be submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council or by the national deputies of Ukraine of not less than 45 persons." Next, this question is put into plenary session without a vote. It could be today or tomorrow. And he must be a representative of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And there must be a conclusion for the profile committee. We need to do all of this so that we don't have any pretenses. And once again, our group for disbanding this disgraceful Parliament of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u21	Thank you. The word from the FACT is given to Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear National Deputies! I would ask all my colleagues, all who take the floor, to be very correct and be very careful with the comments. Today, any careless word can easily break things down. And we saw today at the beginning of our session. We need a connection more than ever. In a situation where unsolicited guests enter our home, there can be no reason for anyone or anyone present to support or condemn separatism or to stand up for the unity of Ukraine. This position should be expressed by every decent person, every citizen of Ukraine, and even more so by a person who has the mandate of a national MP. The second thing I'd like to say is that it's very important and maybe we'll have to. It will not be today, nor will it be Monday to make a special statement, a statement made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is important to society. We need a connection today, more than ever, for the future. I am convinced that no one in the room wants to survive what has happened to Ukraine in recent years, both east and west, both south and north of Ukraine. The second principle is that we need to restore the power of the law. In Ukraine the power of the law, not the law of power, must prevail. This applies to all parts of Ukraine. We have formed authority, the authorities have been given proper authority, and all parts of Ukraine must have order. Shooting, playing with people with guns -- these things have to stop and responsibility has to come according to Ukrainian legislation. We live in conditions where, more than ever, the consolidation of the nation takes place. We have a political nation, a Ukrainian nation. We can be the only one. be at the same time to build the future of Ukraine. I would urge everyone, we understand the guilt of what happened in Ukraine, to be held accountable. But we have to remember that we have to unite people, and our task is not just to find our enemies. Our job is to look for partners. I'd like to encourage power to one more important thing, which is who's in power today. People react very painfully to any assignment. I'd like to respond to all the cases where an assignment error has been made. It's not a mistake, it's not a mistake that people make, it's important that they correct in time. I'm sure we can decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u24	are able to solve the problems and challenges facing Ukraine today. I urge everyone to show civic, political courage and responsibility and today by one chorus to say "No Separatism in Ukraine." Ukraine was, is, and will be the only indivisible sovereign Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the factions of the regions, the word is given to the National Deputy Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u26	Dear National Deputies! The faction’s decision on the question of the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Crimea is such that everyone has the right to vote according to his conscience. I'd say today that it's important that we have an answer to the question, "What's next?".. Let's say today we define as a colleague in the Freedom Party that it's all the fault of the Party of Regions, the faction. We can assign her to blame, even come here and shoot her. What's next? Who will speak to the south and east of Ukraine? Will even the shooting of the factions of the Party of the Regions stop an invader who intends to capture not only Crimea but the entire East of Ukraine? Why can't we understand one simple thing that any accusations, any dissension, any fights in this room are playing by those who want to destroy the last legitimate body of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that they can safely enter our land and destroy and take everything away. And I think today those who are pushing for thoughtless, radical steps that are looking for enemies here are the allies of the invaders of the Ukrainian state. I'm asking you all to think about it, I'm asking that if we dissolve the Supreme Council of Crimea today, who are we going to talk to tomorrow in Crimea? The referendum, we find it unconstitutional. But he'll pass. The referendum is not the end of Ukraine and Crimea. After the referendum, we'll have to make a deal. And we should have someone to deal with. We can make a populist decision today. It's going to be popular, we're all going to get a round of applause. But what will happen next, tomorrow, to protect Ukraine? How do we get to the south and east of Ukraine that people love Ukraine as much as they do in the west? We just have to believe them and let them know that we're not going, someone doesn't go there and teach them patriotism. They're no less patriots than they are in Lviv! And you don't have to go there and humiliate them with your teachings. And you don't have to teach anyone here.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u28	All together, look for constructive forces now, any person who can now work for Ukraine, for the weight of gold. Do Not Seek Enemies! Look for your friends! And let's work so that Ukraine won't be able to get the invaders out and take them away.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u29	From the Fatherland faction, who will act? Sergio Sobolev, please on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! First of all, I turn to the opposition. I think everyone will agree with me that there can be no opposition during military aggression in the country. Because opposition is the fifth column of aggressors! So either you and the people of Ukraine defend the sovereign territory, or you are in opposition to the people of Ukraine. Why did the flag of the Party of Regions and Communists disappear in the East today? Haven't you thought about it? But because you continue to speak with Putin's voice. And you have to speak with the voice of Ukrainian communists and Ukrainian regions. Then your trust will be restored. Why is it that the Republic Department of the Party of the Regions and Communists in Crimea today make decisions about separation from the territory of Ukraine, and they are still members of your parties, and you continue to keep silent and pretend that nothing has happened. Regarding the legitimacy of the referendum. The decision of the Constitutional Court clearly states the reasons for the dissolution of the Parliament of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We have a legitimate, by the way, the only legitimate representative of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is Sergey Kunicin. And he has the opportunity to make a statement. This is also consistent with the Constitution of Ukraine. Third, which is equally important. I understand that. Either we've chosen a legal diplomatic path, or we're choosing a course of armed opposition. If the communists and the regionals are not ready to vote in favour of the dissolution of Parliament, in favour of the legal path, then direct: take up arms, form a company or unit of communists and regionals, and we will follow you. But you're sitting. And when you sit there and do nothing, and you don't vote for the legal path today, that means you're pushing the country against it. And the last. Perhaps this is more so for those living in Crimea. Compare two things for today: the thriving Ajárya in Georgia, which has autonomy, where thousands of new jobs, where unique roads, unique infrastructure, and cleansed Abkhazia. This is the best example of what awaits the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. So our position is unanimous -- we will vote for the dissolution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and its Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u31	From the non-fractional, please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u32	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to remind you of the story. When mighty Hitlerian Germany threatened, Britain was put to death and, when Hitler offered to make Churchill a truce treaty, in fact, it seemed that the great statesman Winston Churchill said: "Never give up, never, never, never, never, never, in the big, small, not in the big, not in the small, not in the small, not in the small, not in the small! Never give up, if it doesn't conflict with honor and common sense, never give in to power, never give in to your opponent's mightier power." Those words of Whiston Churchill are more relevant than ever today. We are told that we are threatened by a million Russian armies, we are told that our Armed Forces have been destroyed, we are told that we do not face the threat of occupation, and we will not overcome the invader who will come to the land of our country that has already come. I want to call upon the Ukrainian people, the forty-six million-dollar great, powerful Cossack nation of the Ukrainian people: brothers and sisters, we will never, ever give up under any circumstances. No matter who comes after us, no matter what kind of weapon you go with, no matter how powerful that power is, we should not give up! And the task of Parliament today is independent of factions, because when Ghana Herman says that traitors are the ones who call for the protection of the country, I want to ask, "Well, who are the ones who don't vote for the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine? Aren't they traitors? Aren't they collaborators?".. So I want to remind you again of Churchill's words, "The fascists of the future will call themselves anti-fascists." So today those who talk about protecting the country make us fascists and nationalists, gangsters. And those who betray the country are heroes. I am addressing the Ukrainian Parliament. Today is the moment of truth. Today the fate of the country is being decided. And today we begin each day by honoring the memory of the dead. We start every day with this, and it's a huge disgrace to our country. The task of the Ukrainian Parliament, President Turchinov's task, the task of the entire Ukrainian people, is to stop bleeding, stop killing Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, two minutes of Nicholas Tomenko. He was talking to the Automidan representatives who came to the Supreme Council. Let's listen to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the latest events that are taking place in Ukraine are also being actively discussed by the patriots of Maidan, the "automaidan," those people who are in pain for what is happening in Ukraine. And they asked them to announce their appeal to the Supreme Council, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the PNBO. "We demand that all necessary measures be taken immediately to bring about the order and warning of further secession, beating and killing of civilians, namely: to punish the perpetrators who, by their actions and omissions, have contributed to the occurrence of the deaths, beatings and beatings of civilians in Donetsk and Kharkiv; to mobilize all internal affairs officials in the eastern and southern regions of Ukraine to perform their duties; to instruct their members of the IMF to stop the acts of secession and to break the laws of Ukraine." I think that, with such requirements, everyone here can join us. And I, for one, Alexander Valentine's Day, want to inform you, and in the context of the discussion that's going on, our super-tolerance obviously needs to change into principle and consistency. Because we're so intolerant that we had the Russian Radio cable cut out in Crimea. That we have Putin to protect the Russians. That's how the Russian radio "Russia Radio" got cut into Crimea, that's how they defend it. As a joke on the Internet today that there will be no Putin in Crimea today, the situation will lead to the fact that they will not speak Russian but will remain silent in Russian. So I don't want them to be silent in Russian, but I want them to speak Ukrainian, Crimean Tatar, Russian. And on the basis of information security issues, Alexander Valentinovich, please put it down, it does not require special inclusion, the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the release of the Head of the Derteradio (Decision 4379). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: we've got representatives of all factions speaking, we're about to go to the Supreme Council's ruling and we're going to be able to speak to everyone as well. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. That's a very responsible question. I will remind the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that this week, early in the week, you and I have adopted a decree on the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We called on the AR Crimes Parliament to revoke its illegal decision. In the event that we refuse to do so, our decision stated that the Supreme Council would decide on the cessation of the Crimea Parliament and its dissolution. The time has passed that the Supreme Council has given the separatists or puppets of the Kremlin, sadly, no decision to return to the constitutional plane has been made. Besides, yesterday, you know, the Constitutional Court made the following decision. First. The unconstitutional decision of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime on the holding of the General referendum of March 6, 2014, No. 17026/14, is unconstitutional. The decision of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the holding of the General Court referendum of 6 March 2014 was declared unconstitutional, and has ceased to be valid since the adoption of the decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Third. To terminate the work of the Commission of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by holding the General People's referendum, the territorial and regional commissions established to hold this referendum. Four. The Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea will stop funding the referendum efforts, ensure the destruction of ballot papers, and campaign materials. Fifth. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is mandatory for execution in Ukraine, final and uncontested. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, in accordance with applicable legislation in the case of the Constitutional Court’s recognition of the unconstitutional activity of the Crimea Supreme Council Parliament, may decide to terminate its powers on an early basis. We've heard the position of some national MPs, and I'd like to ask you for the following. Let's put this decision into the agenda and then I'll give it a chance to talk about the content. No objections? I won't. I ask, Your Honor, to include in the agenda, with a view to discussing it and taking a final decision, the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (number of this Order 4461). I would like to support you by voting. Turn on the "Race" system. Please vote. [[12:53:26]] For 271 Hello. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The factions, please. I'll comment. The Party of Regions is 16, Fatherland is 83, Vitalia Klicka is 37, Economic Development is 28, Sovereign European Ukraine is 31, Freedom is 35, Company is 0, non-fractional is 41. Thank you, fellow citizens, for your position. And let's write down the factions so that we can talk about this. And I'll read it, it's short enough, so that those who listen to the Supreme Council or see it on TV can understand the content of this decision. Please sign up from factions for this statement. And I'm calling a ruling. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. According to paragraph 28 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 5 of the first article 22 of the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, part of article 4 of the Act on the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, taking into account the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in Decision No.2-pp/2014 of 14 March 2014 in the case of the holding of a local referendum of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (contravention of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Ukraine), the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to suspend in a timely manner the authorization of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And the second. This decision takes effect from the day it was published. Dear colleagues, we have signed up for the factions. And please, from the faction of the Party of the Regions, National Deputy Herman. Is he going to perform? Hanna Herman, will you be speaking? Please. From the faction of the regions is the national deputy Tihypco.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, I think, really, the situation is getting very serious right now. And we need to make it very clear and make very fast effective decisions. The first thing I think we should do. We need to make decisions today on the amnesty of those people who are being held in Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv. We need to free Gubarev, we need to free Harrison, we need to free Dobkin. Just like we did our time after whoever was detained in Maidan. I think it's the right decision, it's the right decision, it'll add peace in Ukraine. The other one. We need to fight armed men. You've taken over, please put order on the streets. This is your responsibility today, armed men should not be on the streets, we need peace. Third. We need to talk about more authority in the regions. What is happening today is what is happening in the South and the East. We need to give maximum authority to the regions except one, except so that they can be separated from Ukraine. We need to talk about the choice of governors, we need to talk about economic powers, we need to talk about cultural autonomy for sure. I think it'll calm things down. And it seems to me that today, with all the different voices, we need to vote for the dissolution of the Crimea Parliament. I'm going to vote in favour because I think Ukraine should remain the only one. Separatism is war, it's destabilisation. And we must vote for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u37	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, National Deputy Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Whether we have enough authority today to accept as me is enough. ‘ we have all the constitutional authority to do this. I would like now not to formalize or "extreme fleas" in our Rules, but to read carefully the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to suspend in time the authority of the Supreme Council of the ARC for the Constitutional Court's finding that it violates the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Nowhere, nor in the Constitution of Ukraine, nor in accordance with the laws, is it supposed to be a separate document for individual reference. And since the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 14 March, concluded that the ARC, the Supreme Council of the ARC, violated the Constitution of Ukraine as I am, is sufficient reason for this issue to be considered in the session room today. On the other hand, honourable colleagues, I would like to take into account that the alleged decision of the Constitutional Court should refer solely to the question of the appointment of consecutive ARC elections, does not correspond to reality, since it is simply unified in one paragraph 28 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution, but to another parliamentary mandate. You don't have to speculate on that. We all know how to read, and we know how to consider the decimals between parts of a sentence. Another matter, Mr. Head, I would like to ask you to consider that, first of all, in the text of the decree itself, there is a mistake that Ukraine's Law, not on the Supreme Council of Ukraine of ARC, but on the Supreme Council of ARC, the word "Ukraine" should be removed from there. And the most important thing is that we need to determine when is it in principle for this decision to take effect and to have the power of the Crimean Parliament suspended? As far as I'm concerned, this needs to be done right now, at this point, definitely today. If we follow the second paragraph of the decree, it will take place only after the decree has been published. In theory, it can be published at best only tomorrow. And even today, the whole world and the Crimea must receive a clear signal. So I ask that our faction or the second paragraph be removed and then part of article 138 of the Rules, according to which the decree takes effect from the day of its adoption, that is, from today, or that it becomes effective from the time of its adoption, as we have done in a series of other decrees. And that's when we're going to realize today that the banditry of the ARC Supreme Council is, indeed, halted by our historic decision. Thank you. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Irina Heratchenko's strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Dear criminals, if you have the chance to hear us, because we know that separatists have even turned off Ukrainian channels in Crimea! We want to say that today's decision by the Ukrainian Parliament will be directed exclusively against separatists who today are trying to throw the peninsula not just at the source of war, but, understand, they want to reverse today's tourist season. They do not answer what the pension will be in April, who will pay it, because the retirement period does not promise anyone in Crimea. They do not respond today to where they will be tomorrow, to go to where the university’s graduates are going, because they are already banning the NZO and do not say where these children are going to learn. So here, in fact, today is our huge mission of all Ukrainian national deputies, including those representing Crimea, and I think we cannot share today who represent the region, to protect simply peace and peace in Crimea and to send that authority that has not simply exceeded its authority, which has crossed the future of Crimea and their right to live in a normal European, wonderful country and has chosen these tanks and guns for them, and a referendum under the kalashes. It's just that today they really have to be disbanded. We fully agree with our colleagues in Fatherland that this decision should come into effect today. And we blamed Crimea for the fact that this so-called parliament didn't retire yesterday. It is quite obvious that we have to talk not only about the dissolution of the Crimean Parliament, but about the criminal responsibility of all those who have violated international laws and this has led to the separatist insurrection. With it, we have, indeed, the guarantee of full freedom, full support for those honest deputies who are obviously in the Crimean Parliament and the opportunity to represent them in the same way as the Crimean authorities in the next Parliament, elections to be held honestly. You know, I'd like to particularly appeal to the Party of Regions. You say the right things today, dear colleagues, about peace and peace in Ukraine. We ask you to make a public distinction from Constantinople, who is a member of the Party of the Regions, who today stole essentially your party seal from your one-party party, Mohilov. Speak honestly about it. Who today usurped power, today represents the Party of Regions, is it the impostor who is to sit in prison? Is this the man who stole the entire Crimean coast and today does not allow the common criminals to go out to the beach? I want to tell you that I, personally once with Mrs. Hermann, by the way, and other deputies, Mr. Tomenko, others, we have protected Artek, this beach zone from being stolen by the same Constantines, in the last parliamentary call through the law. We protected the Chekov and Pushkin museums from these people so that they would not steal these premises in Gurzuf and Yalta. That's who we have to protect the criminals from today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u41	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u42	We're supposed to protect criminals from corrupters, separatists who actually see their presence in a high-level body, the Crimea Parliament, as business only. And here, Mrs. Herman told us we wouldn't have anyone to talk to. Are they talking to us? The Constantines have been going to the Kremlin for a report a long time. His place is actually in prison or next to Yanukovich in Rostov, not in Crimea. And that's why today we have to vote for the dissolution of this Parliament and allow criminals to choose their worthy Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u43	From the faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union, Oleg Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u44	Dear Society, Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. First of all, I wanted to explain to everyone, because there are a lot of questions why the Ukrainian Parliament is only now considering the question of the dissolution, the possible dissolution of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime for their unconstitutional and separatist actions. We must act and do only according to the proper Ukrainian legislation. The Ukrainian Constitution speaks and gives Parliament the right to dissolve the Parliament of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea only after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Since the Constitutional Court’s decision was only yesterday evening, we are gathered today to vote on the matter. Why should we vote in favour? It's not just because it fits our Constitution to stop separatism and Moscow aggression. We should vote in favour because if we don't, similar shares can continue in the areas of the big Ukraine, east and south. Why is the Kremlin so eager today? They're actually organizing different diversions right now. And we have information that they want to do different provocations this Sunday, that thousands of people are coming from outside Ukraine to provoke Ukrainians to do different debosses. This has to be stopped now. Moreover, there is information that similar debosses and provocations can take place this Sunday, even in Kiev. There is information that can even be used by people who will be taken into the arenas that are supposed to protest. But these are all Russian provocateurs who want to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. Among them is a plan to capture the Ukrainian Parliament. This has to be stopped. Our Supreme Council has to stop authorizing the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and dissolve this Parliament not because we want it that way, not because we don't like being a member of the Crimean Parliament. We understand that this Parliament has violated the harsh Constitution of Ukraine, acts separatistly, acts on Moscow's agenda today for the masters. And they actually betrayed the people of the Crimean Peninsula. Because the summer vacation season in Crimea is destroyed today. Because the food crisis is starting in Crimea. And who's going to save? Because today, for the Crimean youths who will be called into the army, there is the prospect of serving and protecting Putin in Chechnya, Dagestan, Ossetia, and other hot spots. Because the issue of social protection must be resolved there. And Russia will not solve the issue of health, social, pension insurance. That is why, after a positive decision, we need to immediately adopt a number of economic laws, documents that will help develop the Crimean Peninsula. In particular, the Freedom faction proposes to vote in favour of Sevastopol's right to free port, such as Franco's port, on Monday, which will allow for economic development in that area.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u45	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u46	The other one. We propose to introduce a tax-based tax regime for recreational activities in the southern and western coasts of Crimea. And the third. To restore the right of citizens living in the Crimea to the unhindered use of land of general use, beaches, coastlines within 100 meters of the tideline. And another, a respected society. Yesterday at one of the talk shows was a very interesting thought, and the people of Crimea should know about it. Why do you think Putin wants to destroy the stability situation in Ukraine and especially in the Crimea? Because Ukraine is rapidly, clearly, and specifically on its way to Europe. And if we start building European standards here, how will Russia react to this, how will they see that this is actually done on the border with Russia? This could lead to the rebellion of the inhabitants of Russia. So they want to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. But our duty is to preserve the only undeniable constituency of the Ukrainian State, and clearly we are in this war, in this opposition we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u47	Thank you for the constructive suggestions. From Economic Development, Vladimir Filipenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u48	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, in the last days in this room, we have adopted legislative acts that, from a legal point of view, in one way or another, may not have been entirely correct, as the lawyers say, and this has led us to vote or vote twice, and perhaps three times, if I am not mistaken. Therefore, as we approach this issue now on the legal side, we, as the legislative body, the only legislative body in Ukraine, must be as legal and sound as possible, because the decision that we are about to make is not only legal, but also political, because it depends not only on the suspension of the authority of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, but also on the territorial integrity of our state. We're all Ukrainian, and it doesn't matter what language we speak, Ukrainian, Russian, Tatar, Bulgarian or other, and Crimea citizens live in the same way, and we all have to protect them how they should protect us, because Ukraine is the only country and it will always be, and we all believe in it. The main question is, is there in this case a full legal procedure to be followed in order to be able to take this decision? As it appears from the draft decision, this procedure is respected, since in this case we have the authority defined by the Constitution to dissolve the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime under the terms of the Constitutional Court's conclusion, which establishes a violation by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Constitution of Ukraine. Such a conclusion is available. The Constitutional Court has made it clear that the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea did not act within the limits, not in the manner provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the laws of Ukraine. We all know that, unfortunately, there is no law in Ukraine that regulates the conduct of local referendums. And this should be the primary task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if there is anyone who wants to hold local referendums, the Supreme Council should give them this opportunity by legislatively settling the issue. But in this case, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a legal right and has the authority and authority to make such a decision. And our group will also support that decision. In order to be as legal as possible, I would like to draw the attention of the Head of the Supreme Council that, in accordance with the Rules, such a draft decision can be made either by a certain number of national deputies, or by the Head of the Supreme Council, which we have actually done. However, the draft decree does state that it is being submitted by a national MP. I think that in this case we should be as correct as possible, and this decision, we have to confirm that it is made by the Head of the Supreme Council. Because the authority of the people’s representative is not directly sufficient. These are only legislative initiatives by the Head of the Supreme Council. In another case, there is good reason for us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u49	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u50	Thank you. And our group will fully support the draft of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u51	The word is given to the Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! Today, to some extent, the moment of truth is about how we treat our country. And that's why I'd like, if you'll excuse me, two observations, two suggestions. The first observation on whether today's decision we're making is political and legal. I'd give up such a sensation. Because lately, especially in stormy times under the political and legal status of decisions, we're often making a very difficult legal decision. Today the decision is, on the one hand, legal and on the other, really political. It's legal because my predecessor, my colleague Philippeenko, has already proved from a legal point of view that we have the right to make this decision, "a." And the "b" that we have the basis for, let's say, the principle of determinism is that we have to make that decision. On the other hand, it is certainly political. Because the decision taken regarding the referendum in Crimea is in fact a decision to disintegrate Ukraine. No one has used this term today. What's going on? As a result of the referendum on the separation of part of Ukraine, the disintegration process begins. And this is very important. One second. Sadly, our colleagues, in making such a decision, actually provoked reasons for war. Let's think about it, wars between the two big neighbouring countries. The same decision was directed not only to solving the issues of the people of Crimea but, in fact, to military action. These are two observations that we can't move away from. And, Mr. Head, two proposals are very important. First offer. See what our Order is called: the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. But article 133 of the Basic Law of Ukraine stipulates that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and, I emphasize, that the city of Sevastopol are part of Ukraine as a separate, I emphasise, individual subjects of the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine. Do you understand what I'm not implying, and I'm speaking directly? So there's another body that actually violated the Constitution, causing the disintegration of Ukraine, is the Sevastopol City Council. And let's talk about this directly, because in the Constitution this is a separate territorial administrative unit of Sevastopol. That's the first one. And two, if you'll excuse me. I propose that today we give a commission to the committee of profile, which is very important for local self-government issues, so that this committee will consider the issue and bring it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u54	a proposal for the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Do you understand? Because the Constitution says we're depriving these powers, but on the other hand, we have to appoint new elections. I suggest, on my second suggestion, that we assign a commission to the Committee on Local Self-Government. And, Alexander Valentinovich, you've been distracted, I want to draw your attention to the Sevastopol City Council, it's very serious. Thank you. The "North European Ukraine" group will clearly vote in favour of today's important, legally proven, but also for an important political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I have many deputies who have asked for the floor, and I will. One minute, yeah. But come on, I can see in the mood of the room and I've been approached by a lot of colleagues who need to immediately put questions to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Regarding the correction of the Supreme Council's ruling, the observation of the People's Deputy Knazević, article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, is accepted. Next. As for the point where the decision becomes effective, I understand that the hall supports – from the day it is adopted becomes effective. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the moment. Thank you. From the moment she was accepted. The only way I'm going to inform the people's deputies that tomorrow is going to be the release of the Voice of Ukraine, is by way of a way out, so that our decision will be printed, and the whole of Ukraine, including the citizens of Crimea, knew about ours. The citizens of Ukraine living in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea were aware of today’s decision by our Supreme Council. It's technically impossible to get out today. But we're writing with you in the decision that the decision is effective from the moment it's made. Third position. Dear colleagues, I have been approached by the people's deputies, and by Oleg Zarubinsky on this point, we can even, in our determination, write a commission to a local committee on issues of local self-government to make proposals on the date of the elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. No objections? There's no objection. Can we vote? Procedural? The head's in, we're going to rectify it. Prince Ruslan, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u56	Mr. Head, I'm asking you to give me an assignment, consider the question of the appointment of a non-requisitional election, and make a decision accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u57	I told you about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u58	It's not about appointments, it's about appointments. Consider the question of the destination. And I would like to take into account Philippe's proposal for a ruling by the Supreme Council, not by the Turkish people's deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, this will be corrected in the decree, supported. And I'm very specific about the election. Do you understand the offer? Got it. That's what the committee will offer. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. A very important decision will now be taken by the Supreme Council. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (Decision No. 4461). There is a proposal to accept it as a whole. Please vote. [[13:20:02]] For 278 Decision taken. () [[Applause]] By factions, please let me announce. Region Party 19, Fatherland 83, Impact 37, Economic Development 30, Sovereign European Ukraine 30, Freedom 35, Company 0, non-fractional 44. Dear colleagues, please. Now I'm going to give you a few replicas. People's deputies have been asked. And we need to vote on still very important issues, particularly. National MP Ariev, please come, I'll give you a chance to say. Colleagues, I'm asking you to stay put. We have, you know, a lot of local self-governance authorities need to run out of turn local elections. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute. Now, dear colleagues, I'm going to conclude, and we have 228 suggestions. There will be a proposal for us to put this together in one vote, and then we will draw it up by various decrees. Is there no objection? Let us make a statement and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, a brief message, please pay attention. In Moscow, there is now a ten - thousand - dollar march of peace in support of Ukraine. [[Applause]] On the streets of Moscow, the Moscows are chanting "Glory to Ukraine! The hero of Glory!" Let us thank them together for their support. () [[Applause]] Here's what they tell me: a hundred thousand. We must thank our Russian friends. In your circumstances, it's very important support, it's courage. Let's thank them together. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u61	Please sit down. Dear colleagues! I ask you to calm down, sit down, we have a lot of emotions, but we need to make decisions. I've been informed by the Dombrovski People's Deputy that he didn't have a card, and he's asking me to count his vote for the decision taken by the Supreme Council on this decision. And the people's deputy Greenwich didn't work either? Is that what I'm saying? I also ask you to count your vote. It didn't work in Roswadowski either. Colleagues, I ask you to take voting technology more seriously and responsibly. Dear colleagues, the Overshank didn't work. Colleagues, let's get you in your seats and keep your cards running. I very much ask that we take voting technology seriously. Colleagues, national MPs, I repeat the proposal, let's give David Vazhavich the opportunity to announce a list of all local self-government bodies where appropriate elections are to take place. We're one vote, because it's 227. We will vote in favour of this decision, and we will form this decision by separate decrees. No objections? Supported. Please give us a list of the locations that have been inhabited.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u62	We have the next question. We've got to vote for the local elections separately. Here we have seven such places, unvoted cities. Then we vote ad hoc and we vote for rural and rural councils. So please, first of all, we start with the cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u63	Please. Please give us the number of regulations and the names of those regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u64	Decree 4409: draft Order on the appointment of the successive election of the Preyaslav-Hmelnicki city head (City of Preyaslav-Hmelnicki, Kyiv region).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u65	May we vote, Your Honor? There is a proposal to support the decision by taking it as a basis for it as a whole. Please vote. Let's make the cards work for us. David Vazievich, take the card with you and vote in the rostrum. [[13:24:45.]] For 264 Decision taken. Let's make it work next time. Please, David Vazievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u66	Project Decree 4410: Project of the Order for the Assignment of the Elections of the City of Rožišten (city of Rožištenski district of Volin region).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u67	The number has been fixed?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u68	4410.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u69	4410. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the whole as well. Please vote. [[13:25:23]] For 262
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u70	Decree 4411: The draft Order for the appointment of the consecutive election of the Fifth City Head (city of the Fifth Fifth District of the Dnipropetrov region).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, no objections? None. A decision is made on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[13:25:54]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u72	Decree 4412: The draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Monastery of the City (city of Monastery in the Ternopil region).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u73	It's number 4412. Please support as a whole. Please vote. [[13:26:23]] For 263 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u74	Draft Decree 4413: Draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Hotin City Head (the city of Hotin District of Cherniewets).
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u75	Is it gonna be a number again?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u76	4413.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u77	4413. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this as a whole. The Chernobyl area is being repaired. [[13:26:54]] For 263 Decision taken. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u78	All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, now let's hear the committee head. He will announce the number of regulations and the names of the locations where the local self - government elections are to take place. City numbers and names. Please, David Vazievich. This is 228.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u80	These are drafts with registration numbers: 3274-3276 - 226 and 2397a. 3277 and 3278. Dear colleagues! The head of the Supreme Council can read all by count and then we can vote in general, one vote. If you don't mind, I'll pass the list to the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am approached by MPs and they say that their decisions are in their hands and read only their numbers. No objections? There's no objection. I've got it. Then I call the numbers. The number of every decision we have to support with you. Decision No: 3276, 3276-1, 3276-2, 3276-3, 3276-4, 3276-5, 3276-6, 3276-7, 3276-8, 3276-10, 3276-11, 3276-12, 3276-13, 3276-14, 3276-15, 3276-16, 3276-17, 3276-18, 3276-19, 3276-20, 3276-21, 3276-22, 3276-23, 3276-23, 3276-24, 3276-25, 3276-26, 3276-27. I'm working on a dictatorship, I think, calling these numbers. 3276-27, 3276-28, 3276-29, 3276-30, 3276-31, 3276-32, 3276-33, 3276-34, 3276-35. Please don't disperse the national MPs. 3276-36, 3276-37, 3276-38, 3276-39, 3276-40, 3276-41, 3276-42, 3276-43, 3276-44, 3276-45, 3276-46, 3276-47, 3276-48, 3276-49, 3276-50, 3276-51, 3276-52, 3276-53, 3276-54, 3276-55, 3276-56, 3276-57, 3276-58, 3276-59, 3276-60, 3276-76-76, 3276-74, 3276-75, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76, 3276-76-76, 3276-76-76, 3276-96, 3276-96, 3276-98, 3276-98, 3276-96, 3276-92, 3276-76-96, 3276-96, 3276, 3276-98, 3276 I'm asking you to continue with Ruslan Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u82	3276-100, 3276-101, 3276-102, 3276-103, 3276-104, 3276-105, 3276-106-106, 3276-107, 3276-109, 3276-110, 3276-111, 3276-112, 3276-113, 3276-114, 3276-1155, 3276-1166, 3276-1166, 3276-1199, 3276-1199, 3276-129, 3276-122, 3276-122, 3276-122, 3276-123, 3276-126, 3276-176, 3276-176, 3276-176-125, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-168, 3276-178, 3232323262, 3276-155, 323276-334, 3276-334, 3276, 3276-335, 3276-176-176, 3276-176-176, 3276-176-77, 3276-77, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-138, 3276-178, 3276-138, 3276-168, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-168, 3276-158, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3276-168, 3276-168, 3276-168, 3262, 3276-168, 3262, 3276-158, 3262, 3276-178, 3276-178, 3262, 3276-178, 3262, 3262, 3276-168, 3262, 3276-168, 3262, 3276-168, 3276-168, 3276-116, 3276-178, 3276-116, 3276, 3276, 3276-116, 3276, 3276-116, 3276-168, 3276-176-178, 3276-116, 3276-116, 3276-116, 3276-116, 32, 3276-176-176-176-176-178, 3262, 3276-168, 32, 3276-176-116, 3276-116, 3276-116, 3276-116, 3276-116 3276-200, 3276-201, 3276-202, 3276-203, 3276-204, 3276-205, 3276-206, 3276-207, 3276-208, 3276-209, 3276-210, 3276-211, 3276-212, 3276-214, 3276-214, 3276-215, 3276-216, 3276-217, 3276-218, 3276-219, 3276-220, 3276-221, 3276-222, 3276-223, 3276-224, 3276-224, 3276-225, 3276-226, 2397a.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u83	I'll keep going. Dear colleagues, in addition, Decree No. 2397a, Decree No. 3277 and Decree No. 3278. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national MPs that we are now doing a very important job. Because all the elections in these population centres are scheduled for Sunday, May 25, 2014, that is, they will be held with the presidential elections, and we will be able to get a serious budget economy. Dear colleagues, you've heard the number of orders for an out-of-order election. Can we put these rulings to the vote and form them separately, as required by the Supreme Council's Rules and applicable legislation? We can. I ask you to support these decisions on the basis and in general. Please vote, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. [[13:37:37]] For 270. For – 277. 270, I'm sorry. Thank you, Your Honor. The decisions are all made. And so effectively the Supreme Council has never worked, so many decisions, so many decisions in one session. Dear colleagues, there is a request from the head of the profile committee, a very important question. I give the floor to Mikola Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, it's not a simple situation for us, you know, that the system of district television companies today is subordinated to Derteradio and in order to quickly start working where it is necessary to change people where they need to be sent. Therefore, there is a suggestion that we support the Order on the Liberation of the Head of the State Department of Coordination, Alexander Viacheslavovich, at his own request. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-03-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, this is a decision made by the head of the profile committee, Mikola Tomenko, regarding the release of the coordinating leader, Alexander Viacheslavovich, from the post of head of the State Committee on Television and radio talk at his own request. The number of this provision 4379. No questions about the content of this decision? None. There is a proposal to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to take this as a basis and, in general, please release. Please include the "Council" system and vote for Decree (4379) on discharge from the post of Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio as you wish. [[13:39:27]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for the effective work we have done today, for the unity of our Supreme Council in protecting Ukraine. I'm addressing you, may I say, I'm addressing you, Your Honor, the situation is very dangerous, I'm not exaggerating, there's a real danger of incursion into Ukraine. That's why we're meeting with you Monday at 10:00 a.m., 10:00 a.m. Monday, and we're going to have to make very responsible decisions about changing the State budget to finance the needs of the Armed Forces and other issues related to ensuring the security of our country. I'm addressing all the national MPs from different factions, so I have to be at 10:00 a.m. Monday. And we're adjourning our meeting. Thank you. Monday at 10 p.m., the Supreme Council will resume its work. Dear colleagues, I am the only one who addresses all those who work in the government, I address all the national MPs, and on Monday we should definitely vote for the approval of the national deputies who work in government structures. This is a requirement of effective legislation. And I insist that our vote on this issue take place no later than Monday. Thank you.
