ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Please take your seats, get ready for registration. Traditionally, while MPs are preparing to register, I inform you that today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sikori Olga Miroslavovna. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please register with all national deputies. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:13]] There are 332 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council will begin its morning session. Honorable National MPs are now 50 years old from the day the classic of Ukrainian literature, outstanding poet, translator, publicist, public figure, academic of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Maksim Tadejevic Rilski. On your orders, I ordered that a basket of flowers be placed in the grave of this great son of the Ukrainian people. Dear colleagues, I think there's going to be a historic event going on right now. Parliament has been going on for a long time, you know, you and I have corrected this week's error in the Act of Rules that works. And it is known that, according to the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Seventh Council, 33 national deputies were formed on the basis of the Supreme Council Rules. By July 1, 2013, the faction had dropped to 23 national deputies, much less than the minimum number of factions. In this regard and on the basis of part four of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I hereby declare the dissolution of the Communist Party’s parliamentary faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation. It's a historic event, my dear fellows. And I hope that there will never be more Communist factions in the Ukrainian Parliament. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm informing you that we have a very tense agenda today. In particular, we need to discuss and determine the laws that will determine the socio-economic situation in the near future. These are the anticrisis laws introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, many other important issues that determine the development of our country in the near future, including issues related to the strengthening of the country’s security. In view of the fact that the biggest issues and discussions are now taking place around the Law on Changes in the Country’s Budget, on Changes to Our Country’s Tax System, we still need to hold consultations, including on the advice of the leaders of the parliamentary factions and the coalition groups, to the parliamentary majority. In order to be able to make balanced and effective decisions, there is a break until 11 o'clock. I ask all deputies to be in the session room at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. There's been a long break, a difficult conversation, but we're coming out of it, and I really hope that this result will be transformed into a positive vote. I ask the secretariat to make the announcement loud in the towers, in the cabinet of the Supreme Council, that all the national deputies come immediately to the hall to make important, principled decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now had a professional discussion with the Cabinet of Ministers, and the MPs have done very important additions and changes to both the State Budget Act 2014 and the changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code. First of all, it's about issues that protect our citizens after all, including those that work in the budget area. We've agreed with the government that by four o'clock they'll be filing all the amendments that we've discussed at the meeting of the MP factions and coalitions, the leaders of the MP factions of the coalition. And now these proposals that will be made as changes to these projects, I've given the commission to give to all the national MPs both the majority and the opposition so that we can understand in detail what we are voting for in four hours. That is why I propose to postpone for 16 hours both the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2014 and the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. Dear colleagues, open the agenda and the second issue we will include in the agenda. And let's, my fellow Members, we're going to have a task both to put into the agenda and to determine the issue that needs a clear position of the Supreme Council. Because these issues relate to financing, including the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including, I turn to the opposition, and the restoration of the terrorist-destroyed settlements in Donbassa. So please, Your Honor, we're going to include ourselves in the agenda, and we're going to vote effectively. Now, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to listen to the Minister of Justice, who will present the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Upgrading the State Service and Simplifying the Provision of Administrative Services (Registration No. 4322a). The suggestion is that we give 3 minutes to the Minister of Justice, then we make a decision about the inclusion in the agenda, and with the support of the National Deputies, we will be able to adopt this law in the first reading. Please, Your Honor, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u3	Good afternoon, colleagues, you know that there is now a huge problem in Ukraine with the enormous bureaucracy of administrative services. There is no motivation in those government officials who should perform these functions to provide quality, fast, and non-corruption services to our citizens. So the government is proposing a bill that has to solve two problems. The first question is the full re-anointing of those public officials who work in the supervisory bodies that work in the area of the provision of administrative services in matters of privatization. In fact, it's a illustration and a mechanism, involving new people who have higher education and professional experience working in the sphere of state apparatus. Similarly, we propose that the law enforcement authorities be reclassified and the special law of the judicial system. In addition, the law simplifies the procedure for providing administrative services so that our citizens can actually receive a service in government and local self - government. This law offers the transfer of functions now performed by the State to local governments. This is really a step towards decentralization of power when local governments are given real powers to provide services and administrations that are now being provided by central authorities. Similarly, this law offers much to ask the administration itself. Enter an undocumented form when the person who comes to the state registry does not have to fill 25 papers and then get a refusal when the operator himself does. And we realize that when we get new people into the area of admin, we have to ensure their motivation. We propose to introduce the concept of "remuneration" of the respective operator and the person who provides the services. If it works well, some of the funds paid for this service should pass it as a legal reward. This law solves many questions, and above all, the issue of domestic corruption, which is widespread today in Ukraine. Because people who work for 1,000 200 dollars of wages and have a function of the state can't actually give people quality services, they have to get bribes. And this preoccupational corruption actually reflects the problem that then applies to all state bodies and parliament and the government and the President. I ask you to support this bill. This is the first but very serious step towards fighting corruption and updating the government apparatus in the area of administrative and control services. Please support it in the first reading, include it in the agenda, and we will actually do it with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u4	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u5	We will work with you to reform this area, which is felt by every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm talking. Thank you, Paul Dmitrovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! I'm addressing all the national MPs. Please take your seats. We will now decide on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Upgrading of State Equipment and Simplification of Administrative Services (4322a). As you have heard from the Minister of Justice, this is a question related to decentralization, which we are talking about very much, to the fight against corruption in the system that is most corrupt today. What's more, we're talking about the same illustration of officials who can't work, who took bribes, etc. That's why, dear fellows, I ask that we now include this law in the order of the day, and then we can consider it in a simplified procedure in the first reading. Please prepare the "Race" system. Fellows, come into the hall quickly. Jaroslav, I'm asking you to make a decision right now. Please, Your Honor, support the introduction of a bill to amend some of the legislation on upgrading the state apparatus and simplifying the provision of administrative services (registration number 4322a). Please support inclusion in the agenda. Another Hermanovna, please vote. [[11:38:40]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, back up. [[11:39:04]] For 211 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u7	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The bill only came to the Supreme Council Committee on Legal Policy yesterday. There is no decision on it, nor can we consider it at today’s meeting. And according to the Rules, if we've just included it, we can even look at it at the evening session. So given the absence of a committee decision, I can only say one thing: that we cannot consider this bill today. The committee will meet to address this issue for the next parliamentary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Two for, two against. National Deputy Furman, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Markian Lopachak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u10	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u11	Markian Lupaczak, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, this is clearly an extremely important bill, which includes moments that have been talked about on a number of occasions, in fact, and people who met in Midan, and there are requirements that actually await Ukrainian society. In particular, this applies to conducting an ex-post evaluation of public service representatives and the judicial system involving the public, as well as opening access to the service for persons who have received adequate education and training, but who do not have adequate experience in public service work. This will definitely enable young professionals to come and replace those corrupt officials who are currently working in the system. The public and open nature of the State Register of Real Estate Rights should also be highlighted among the positive aspects. First, this will make the real estate market much easier, secondly, information about the availability of fixed property to government employees will be available, which will mean greater transparency and the ability to verify the official's assets. We should also note the wider use of the official website as a means of reporting registration. With regard to legal persons and natural persons, entrepreneurs will be able to do faster registration and to save money on publications in print media. I also propose, given that there was a proposal by the committee head to consider this issue after the committee's consideration, to speed up the committee's consideration as quickly as possible and to adopt this bill as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. He's giving the word to the people's deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u13	Dear colleagues. By accepting this document in the first reading, as the head of the committee that will accompany it for second reading, I want to make an immediate comment for the first time. Unfortunately, you repeat the negative practice we had when we gave the registration twice to the city's head, the head of the administration, and the central executive authority. I was personally the manager of the company, and I can tell you, any registration that receives fees and depends on the city's head, he's going to make changes to the registration register of those who tell him the mayor, regardless of the law, that's got to be cleaned up. I think we should have serious discussions about the education of the registrar there. I'm sure there can't be a lawyer and we can't, because there's a very serious need to have legal practice, checks and notary papers and a lot of other things. In general, it cannot be accepted, it can be accepted in the first reading, everything else we have agreed with the minister of justice to work out.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin, strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Natalie Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u16	Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u17	Dear colleagues. Dear Chairman. We certainly support the idea of adopting such a law, given that the level of administrative services, the level of training, the professional training of government officials in this area is quite low and people are not really satisfied with the way administrative services are provided right now. We also welcome some of the provisions of this bill that apply, firstly, to the electronic form of submission of applications by natural and legal persons for state registration. Since we're already living with you in the 21st century and all this paperwork, it has to go back in time. We also welcome the free access of natural, legal persons, local self - government agencies to government records, since all people should know and have access to such information. But in our view, there are some comments that we will try to correct and refine in the second reading that apply to the following points. Of course, reagents are important, but let us be clear in the law to prescribe the procedure and legal consequences of such reagents. We should not give up this procedure. These procedures -- they have to be prescribed in the law. So people need to know at the level of the law how they're going to be re-assessed. This should not be a discrediting mandate of executive authorities. Next position. List and types of administrative services. They must be established in the law. So we have to write, and yet we have to add that it's not the size of the salary that is set by the Kabmin and the central executive authorities, and this has to be written in the law again. Well, it's a shame we haven't reached the time of adoption of the administrative code. I think the Minister of Justice will prepare and provide it as soon as possible, because all these procedures have to be fixed in it. But as a transitional step, we can work out this law and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u18	People's deputy Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u19	Please give the floor to Mr. Voropejev Yuri Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u20	Please turn on the microphone of the national MP Voropeyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you of the history of these laws. When the State Registration Act was first adopted in 2009, when the Ministry of Justice was its initiator, it was laid down in law that all funds received from registration, issuance of extracts and so on should be transferred to that body or within the Cabinet of Ministers, including to the State Registration Service. But, "Our Ukraine" got off on the right foot and said, "You can't do that." That would lead to corruption. Why? Because the money will be shared by government officials themselves. And we agreed. It was our law, all the factions supported and adopted. And under this law, all the money goes to the state budget. And they can be distributed from the budget to anyone, to any ministry. Now we're being asked to do something completely different. The previous Ministers of Justice suggested that what they proposed should be done. Hand over some of the money to where the government official sits. And he will determine who did the service correctly, who did the service wrong, what money and what money would remain for him. It's pure corruption! You can't agree with that. And don't forget another story, please. When the development of the State Register was given to private companies on the pretext that it was a serious job to be done on a market basis. What's the end of it? This register was placed in the hands of others and then returned to the State for a long time. Therefore, this law cannot be voted on in any way!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u22	Your Honor, you've confused the laws. You have commented on Law 4323a, and we are now considering Law 4322a. So please read and listen carefully to what is happening in the session room. Please, one minute, National Deputy Zuravsky. And we'll make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! This bill is very important. Our group will support him. I'd like to say that the decision of the profile committee is still a recommendation. The Supreme Council can do anything. So this bill allows you to re-test the law enforcement authorities. There's a lot of corrupt people out there. Re-establish the machine, re-engage the new people. Simplify the registration mechanism. This is a real step in the fight against corruption. This bill is time-consuming. We'll support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! We had a discussion according to the rules. And I'm very much asking that we now determine how to vote for support in the first reading, I would like to emphasize, in the first reading. Because MPs who supported the law at the same time spoke about the need to revise some of his regulations. That's why, honourable colleagues, we will now be determined on the adoption of the first reading, i.e. on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the legislative acts on the renewal of the state apparatus and simplifying the provision of administrative services. Dear colleagues, the registration number of this law, I recall, 4322a. People’s deputies would like to support the adoption of this law in the first reading, that is, on a basis. Please vote. [[11:50:08]] For 215 Dear colleagues, "Z"-215, no decision taken. Please, People's Deputies. I'm asking you to take your seats. By factions, show me one minute before the show. 75 – "Fathership", Regions – 0.35 – "BRA" – 17 – "Economic development", 28 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 34 – "Freedom" – 0, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, this is a serious question. We cannot stop reforming the management system. We promised this to our voters, these are real reforms of local self-government, these are real reforms of the government apparatus. Please turn on the microphone of the national deputy of the Ingredient.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I'm for reform, I'm for fighting corruption, but let me read one of the articles, five of them. Remuneration to the State Register. "The state registrar, who for a month provided for the legal conduct of the state registration of rights, receives a reward. The size and order of the remuneration of the state registry is set by the Cabinet of Ministers." Can you imagine how many thousands of civil servants we have, and why are they not rewarded for fulfilling their legal obligations during the month? Imagine if we wrote that a prosecutor who performs his duties legally during the month receives a reward. Well, we're betting, well, it's not a fight against corruption. These are some government officials who will be paid for their official duties, and other government officials, we will send them home for two months at all. What is the fight against corruption? I'm sorry for the emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u26	Please, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to listen carefully to the speech of the committee head, who will continue to prepare this bill for second reading. I made a warning about the first reading of the same paragraph as for. Mr. Unmerciful? Mr. Unmerciful? I made a warning in my speech about the points you said in the first reading and the second reading, and I agree with you 100 percent, and the remarks of Voropeyev have room. But we're going to work on this bill, and I promise you, by carrying out decentralization duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u28	Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, the whole of Ukraine has been experiencing a situation in recent years when people were unable to register their property objectively, if anyone wanted to register, it was not possible to do so without bribes. The whole system was completely corrupt, there were bribes, there were fundraising upstairs, and everyone knows that. I am convinced that we need to adopt a new law. We need everyone, without exception, to re-test, to form a transparent system, and to recruit responsible, honest people who will act in the interests of our citizens, of course, by lowering their wages to a formal one. Because what happened was unacceptable. But these are all things about reward.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u30	Please, National Deputy Sobolev. I'm asking the people's deputies not to leave the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u31	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, three key warnings, including those that were sounded in the hall, are those that should be corrected for second reading. I think we have every reason to vote on this bill in the first reading, because this allows us to solve three key issues: first is the fight against corruption, second is the very clear definition, so who is the "state official" and that can be done under this bill, and thirdly, the re-anointing of those who cannot perform their duties of service to the people. So ask him to vote again, and I think the room will support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u32	My fellow Members, I very much ask all members of the national parliament to be very careful now, to respond responsibly to the vote. Once again, I emphasize that we are adopting this law in the first reading, in the first, those remarks that were, they will be corrected for the second reading. But we need to fight corruption, we need to re-test officials who do not meet the demands of today's citizens of Ukraine. So, honourable people's deputies, I very much ask you to return to this issue now, please support, let's go back to this question. Please be quick to sit down, Mr. Crook, quickly to your workplace. Please, please, sit down, and then kiss yourself, please, and sit down. Please vote for the return to this law, please. [[11:55:52]] For 231 Decision taken. Please support the adoption of the law on the basis of the first reading, I ask everyone to vote. [[11:56:13]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions. Fatherland - 82, Party of Regions - 0, Strike - 37, 29 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 30, Freedom - 34, NMS - 0, non-fractional - 29. It's so nice not to name one faction, you know, honorary colleagues. [[Applause]] I also ask the National Deputies to consider, in a similar form, the following law, which is also related to the reform of the administrative system. Minister of Justice, please. Paul Dmitrovitch, please, on the rostrum. The Minister of Justice reports on the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code on Simplification of Administrative Services. Dear colleagues, and after that, you and I will also be able to determine how to get into the agenda and how to get into the first reading. Please, Pavel Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, here was a very interesting discussion among members of Parliament on the need to combat corruption in the area of administration, precisely those civil servants who have contacts with citizens who have the opportunity to influence the decision on a citizen. And you know, when we're talking about the reward that the government is offering to put into law, we're talking about the fact that we want to clean up that domestic corruption when people come in and have to bribe a government official who gets a salary of 1,000,200 dollars a month, who has a lot of liabilities, huge queues, bureaucratic processes, and has no motivation to perform his functions conscientiously for this money that he gets. That's the first side of the medal. The other side of the coin, we want to do a global retest and invite you to the authorities, and to the local self-governance of new people, with good education and a professional level, they need to offer a normal wage. Let's be honest with each other, this is a clear position that you can't find a quality expert for 1,000 200 dollars of wages that won't take bribes. Because he needs to live and his family needs to be fed, that is the first. The other one. The reward allows for a differentiated approach to those who provide quality quick services. This is basically a practice that works in Georgia, which is now actually one of the leaders of the quality of the service that works in Poland. When a person who provides very beautiful, fast, non-corruption services is entitled to a reward. It makes a lot of money for the government budget first. Because the same government executive or public registrar brings ten times more government budget per month than its salary. And if we make a balance for everyone's salary, then there will be no motivation for specific government officials to work better. So we suggest that we really have European approaches to motivate those who work in the field of administrative services so that we can get the best people there, with the best education and the most motivated, and that these people get a decent reward for their honest work. With regard to charges against prosecutors or judges. The prosecutor or the judge cannot get a reward, he must receive a decent salary because he has repressive functions. And those who provide administrative services and services to citizens must have the motivation to actually do it as a service to our citizens, not a problem for our citizens. So I'm asking you very much, let's still start this reform and not lie to each other. Reform is possible only if motivated people work here in this sphere are highly professional.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u34	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u35	For an honest reward. Because if we leave the wages for these people at 1200-1500 dollars, asking them to work honestly and not take bribes, that's nonsense, that's impossible. We shouldn't fool ourselves. So I ask you again, let's get this process started, and we're going to do this reform, and in fact, you and I will not be ashamed of the fact that in a few months, there are actually admin centers in Ukraine where people get services. We're opening up the pilot in a week. We want to show a new quality of communication with our citizens. Similarly, we provide for the transfer of these functions to local self - government authorities. Tell me, please, what should be the motivation in the city's head that opens up an administration that actually invests in the local budget if it doesn't actually get at least a fraction of the salary that citizens pay for these administrations? He won't have the motivation to open these administrations. So once again, I urge you to support this bill. We're starting reforms. There are no ideal reforms, there is an ideal time for reform. Now people are demanding, after the revolution, the fight against corruption, the fight against domestic corruption, the fight against bribery. Without these reforms, we will not solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the formula proposed by the Ministry of Justice is very simple and visual. Today, officials are interested in the queues that stand before them. Because the longer the turn, to get around it, people pay bribes. After this law has been passed, the official will be interested in getting as many people as possible through his office and giving the State the payment that is determined by law. He has direct motivation to improve his job rather than create artificial lines and demand bribes. And first of all, dear colleagues, we're thinking about our citizens who can get quality administrative services and not pay extra in black cash. Forgiveness, fellow believers, to support the inclusion of this law in the order of the day. Remind me, registration number 4323a, please vote for inclusion in the agenda, honorary colleagues. [[12:03:28]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. 71 – "Paternality", "regions" – 0, "SHOP" – 33, 32 – "Economic development", 26 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", and "MS" – 0, non-fractional – 24. I'm going to the non-faction MPs. Dear colleagues, let's mobilize now. Let us, however, now support the proposal to reform the administrative services of simplification, and the main thing is to improve it for our citizens, to see our citizens, to serve our citizens. Dear colleagues, come on, I'm addressing everyone. Take your seats! Well, an important question indeed! Please support inclusion in the agenda. I'm re-voting, and I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:04:30]] For 234 Thank you, Your Honor. The decision has been made. Please support the simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you for a brief procedure. [[12:04:52]] For 209 Decision taken. It's a procedural decision, I recall. Please ask the head of the Committee on Budgets, Mr. Gjellier Evgen Borisovich, to the parliamentary rostrum. Where's the committee head? He's holding an emergency meeting. Dear colleagues, please, we actually had a report on this issue. Yes or no? Reported to the Minister of Justice. So let's sign up for a discussion: two for, two against. Please. Inna Hermanovna, please sign in. I'm giving you the "Race" system. Please, the Council system works like a Swiss watch. Please, National Deputy Michalchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u37	Yuri Mikhalchisin, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, really, the need to adopt this bill is based on the requirements of the previous bill under registration number 4322a. And accordingly, it has a complementary character. Thus, the draft law proposes to establish specificities for the formation of the income composition of the State Budget general fund of Ukraine and the State Budget special fund from the salaries for the provision of administrative services and for the executive body of the State Executive Service. The project is also necessary to ensure payment of the prize to government registrars. the employees of civil registration bodies and also the remuneration of the public performers, the promotion of their activities. However, questions arise in this context as to whether administrative services should have such a high priority. Why services such as registration, licenses, licenses, certification, certification, verification and nostification should take precedence over work, such as a teacher at school or a librarian, who also provides public services for themselves and really are no less close to people and their needs. The factions generally support the adoption of the bill because of its technical and complementary nature, but insist on the development of system-wide bills that encourage the work of all those officials, including local self-government bodies, who provide services to local communities and taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u38	Thank you. People's MP Rosenko, impact faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u39	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Klitschka Faction. Well, of course, if the discussion was going on somewhere else than today, you could really talk about the need for a motivational system for people, for officials who provide administrative services. This is certainly a noble mission and perhaps the right approach. But on the other hand, when the government speaks about the need for the motivations of these categories of citizens, and on the other hand today, it submits proposals to the Supreme Council for a budget that grant the right to budget managers, namely, teachers, doctors, other cultural workers, social workers, to expel them for two months free of charge, free of charge, free of charge, it raises questions, i.e. for some categories of officials, we encourage them to pay jobs, another category of equally important people, teachers, doctors we give, we actually expel, behind the initiative of a government for two months free of charge. So the government needs to be determined whether we are really talking about a systematic approach to pay for work that stimulates the pay and interest of every profession, every budgetary profession, regardless of whether you provide administrative services, whether you provide services in the health system, whether you provide services in the education system, in the culture system, or in the social sphere. So it's obvious that we're supporting the bill today. But we demand the government's systematic approach to paying for the work of all workers, including budget workers, who are getting the same today.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u40	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u41	Which, I stress, is for the Minister of Justice. Today, the same teachers and doctors receive the same amount of 1200 - 1,500 dollars. That's why we're in favour of a systematic approach to the pay system of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! A little comment. The thing is, the government doesn't offer two months of leave unpaid for teachers and doctors is the first. Secondly, after negotiations with the factions, the Ministry of Finance also makes adjustments to make it easier for other budget workers, even officials. So you should have been informed by the faction manager about the negotiations we had during the break. Dear colleagues, next performance. National Deputy Guzenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u43	Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. Dear Chief! Please give the floor to the expert on the mentioned question to the national MP, Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u44	Please turn on the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u45	Alexander Valentinovich, here you have corrected me under the previous law and it is completely unfounded. If you look at this law and the previous law and the previous law, it's in the table on pages 24, 25, 26, 27. Then you'll see what happens by two laws. You're changing the fee, which is the fee that is now paid for these services in the budget. You change the title to a fee and the fee is no longer in the budget, it's already going to special funds. And no longer will the Supreme Council determine the amount of these fees, and this will be done by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is the first. And the second. If you're talking about what you should be interested in working well? That's right, you have to do that. A public official, I pay attention to a public servant. For this there is a simple mechanism: raise his salary, make it out of two parts: the main salary plus the bonus extra, which is paid for good work. It's all there is to it! The whole problem. And please, I ask you very much, before you comment on anything, advise someone and tell them. Because the amendment of the whole law that was in the previous law concerning the household regarding the remuneration of the registrars, I named the pages, and there it was. Where do you come from? That can't be voted on, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u46	I understand the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the word to Yavorowski, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina This law, which we are now considering with the previous law, are twin laws. Of course, without each other, they are absolutely impossible. We've already voted first. Because of this, it's perfectly clear and logical that we should support this bill as well. The second thing I'd like to say. We have to get used to every small attempt to reform this state of our economy, the administrative system, every smallest attempt to reform something will be a tremendous challenge in this House, where there are a lot of people who would not want to change anything. Especially the Party of Regions, the people who have already formed legislation for themselves, certain blocks. They live on it and so on. I'm watching it, Mr. Petrenko, Mr. Petrenko! I want you to hear that, too. Because of this, I think we should go and go as firmly as possible to reform. I am watching very closely, zealously following the behavior of our new ministers, especially the new people who came from Midan, not from Midan, but from the street, but especially from the new people. And I want to say that we have one of the brightest ministers of justice. I'm independent of him completely. And I'm going to yell at him, and I'm going to blame him for accidentally getting the archives, the temple of Ukraine. And it's not there yet, it's not there. They had to be returned to the Ministry of Culture, to be honest with you. But there are still those officials who have been disposing of these archives. Because I say again, we're unloading those colossal lines today. I understand it's an imperfect bill. I understand that society is so corrupt that there's obviously going to be something in these schemes somewhere, but I'm already absolutely convinced that the Cabinet of Ministers has to put out a minimum of this reward so that it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u48	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u49	So that she doesn't cut her eye out, so that it's very moderate light, so to speak, for a person this so-called reward. This bill must be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, we discussed the reduced procedure. And I remind the people's deputies that this is about the adoption of the law in the first reading. So it's going to be possible to correct those positions that need to be redrafted. And the Ministry of Justice fully supports this approach. So, your honors, I ask you to sit down in my workplace, all the national MPs. Please, colleagues, don't stand in the aisle, let's sit in our seats, prepare for an important vote. Please and National Deputy Fursina also sit in the workplace, much may depend on your voice today. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, please. Mr. Schufrich, you can vote responsibly, decisively. Please have a seat. Please, Your Honor, support the adoption in the first reading, i.e. on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code on Simplification of Administrative Services (Registration No. 4323a). Here's the basics. Please vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[12:16:19]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, not all, by the way, the national MPs voted, I see, some continue to do business unrelated to parliamentary activity. The factions, please. Parenthood voted decisively today – 79, Party of Regions – 1, yes, Impact – 35, Economic Development – 29, Sovereign European Ukraine – 25, Freedom – 35, NMS – 0, non-fractional – 26. Dear colleagues, the next question just needs to be included in the agenda. Draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Military Duty and Military Service and on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption. Please, Your Honor, registration number 4325a, support the inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of Project 4325a. Please vote. [[12:17:53]] For 263 Decision taken. Maybe on the first reading? Right now? No discussion? Come on. Oh, no? For, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for. Deputy Kaplin even supports, Your Honor. Please support this bill. Please. [[12:18:27]] For 208 Dear colleagues, the hit has not been supported. Dear colleagues, you're suggesting a brief discussion, yes, I understand? Colleagues, an important law is a request to consider it a signal vote and then prepare it for the vote. Kowalczuk, please give Vitalia a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u51	Vitaly Kowalczuk, Vitaly Klick Faction. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! First. If we agree on some laws or other, I want us to make arrangements that were on the Conciliation Council. And the second. Given that we are still not seeing the Supreme Council's attitude towards constructive work, according to the Ukrainian people's will, the Vitalia Klitschka faction declares and reports an exit from the European Election Coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. [[Applause]] Today we are launching a constitutional mechanism that will allow the President of Ukraine to dissolve the Supreme Council and appoint parliamentary elections for the term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, thanks to my constructive work, I did not understand the position because the Supreme Council voted positively. The only thing I understand is that today, in this way, they're trying to break government laws that are going to be passed in this way. The laws to be financed by the Armed Forces are being broken today without even allowing them to vote and then making their announcements. Please, Oleg Pullibok. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u53	Dear Society, Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union claims that our faction has come out of the majority coalition. [[Applause]] We believe that in the current situation, there is a parliament that covers state criminals, a Moscow agency, a parliament that does not exempt those working for the Kremlin from the parliamentary mandate. Furthermore, we believe that early parliamentary elections, which should take place soon, should take place when peace is established in Ukraine. That's why we believe that, in parallel, we expect an appropriate response from the President and the Council of National Security and Defence to be introduced into the military situation in those regions of Ukraine where we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u54	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u55	In those areas where anti-terrorist operations are now taking place, peace, harmony and order should be indicated, and the date of parliamentary parliamentary elections announced for the term. Today there is a great historic day, in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the highest legislative body of our nation there has ceased to be a bloody faction of the Communists, the Moscow agency. It is our hope that this Parliament will continue to work. Before the breakup, this Parliament should vote in favour of all the laws that will help us defeat the external and internal enemy. And we hope that the Law on Elections will be passed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a proportional system, for open lists of what the people require. There will be a bill on illustration, a bill on the prohibition of communist ideology, which will be passed by this Parliament. This is exactly what the community requires, what Ukrainian society requires. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down. Please, I've already given you my word. I give my word now to Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev, please. Please, Sergey Sobolev. I'll give you a chance. Sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u57	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honorable Fellows, and not the Honorable Fellows, I think today's date will enter the history of the country as a date that defines the very clear parameters. All those who were willing to vote for the immediate allocation of funds for the Ukrainian Army, and they were not enough, 9 billion dollars, all those who were willing to vote in favour of the Law on elections on a proportional basis for open lists, all those who clearly understood that there was only one possibility today to hold the elections under conditions that would take place if President Poshenko took responsibility and introduced the state of war into two areas of Luganské and Donetsk, and brought the final to ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u58	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u59	Agreement on the signing of an association with the European Union. This was an adequate response to separatists, terrorists, and Putin, who are trying to play their own script in this Parliament. That's why the "Fatherland" faction claims we're going to the parliamentary election in a row. And we think, in these circumstances, the only possibility to hold these elections is to pass the Electoral Act on a proportional basis behind open lists. And the second is the immediate order and conclusion, the liberation of Ukraine from the Russian invaders and the terrorists who support them. That is why today this is actually the answer to all the key questions. And in these circumstances, our faction clearly states its position on the successive parliamentary elections. Thus, the Head of the Supreme Council, I have an offer to take a break now, to identify the key issues that Parliament should adopt. And as part of this break, we need to get right back to the question: the first question is the financing of the Ukrainian army; the second question is the question of proportional law behind open lists. And then make the right decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, from the faction of the Matvienkov Region Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give the floor to all factions. They all said, "SHOOT" came out, "Freedom" came out, "Fatherland" came out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Matvienkov, 57 district, Mariupol, faction of regions. We have always advocated and advocated the resolution of the issues that remain in our country today on the next algorithm. The first is peace, the second is the change in the Constitution, the establishment of a basis for us to build a normal, strong, healthy state. The third is the holding of elections. On this algorithm, we have always spoken and were ready to go along with this problem. Today we see a scenario playing out that pushes the country incomprehensibly. If you want to hold elections without eastern regions, given that people have a certain opinion, certain political forces, then I think you need to understand what measure of responsibility for the situation that will develop in the country and in the world, you are taking over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u62	Please, from MPs and factions. I don't see any MPs or factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u63	I'll give you a chance, a replica. Please, from the non-fractional Oleg Lazko, please. Please, Sergey Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u64	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, I want from the non-fractional 15 MPs to solidarity with the UDA faction, to solidarity with the Freedom faction to declare an exit from the coalition in order for the President to be able to recommence this Parliament in 30 days. And I want to state responsibly that last week, in my district in the Borispil district, in the Preeslovsky region, in the Zgurovsky region, people told me, "Sergij Grigorovitch, if you don't do this, you won't overload the power, we will come to this power and reload it ourselves." [[Applause]] So to be afraid of no one, it's a place for someone, maybe sat down. But people are determined who's here, who's here to protect them, their interests. That's why the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u65	Please, Anatoly Kinach, Economic Development. I told you I'd give you a line. The factions will end, and I'll give you a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u66	Dear National Deputies, the "Economic Development" union shares the will of most Ukrainian citizens and our colleagues in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the vital need for re-launching branches of power in Ukraine. The point is that without increased stateliness, professionalism, patriotism in action, it is impossible to overcome the unprecedented risks that affect national security, territorial integrity. So it's very principle that we don't turn the early elections into the Supreme Council of Ukraine into another race where dirty technologies compete and national interests are destroyed. We support the term elections to the Supreme Council as an opportunity for the Ukrainian people to form a modern, patriotic, effective authority as a basis for our development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u67	Please give me one minute for a replica to the representative of the strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We are definitely against the announcement of a break. We understand that leaving the coalition in no way can interfere with the productive work of the Supreme Council. So we stress that we need to consider and adopt all the necessary to provide for the army, to counter Russian aggression, the laws, laws that are necessary for Ukraine. It would be good for the national MPs! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. I think the Supreme Council should continue its work. I'm the only one who wants to make a little comment. Today we were meeting in my office, faction leaders, including coalitions, and I was addressing the national MPs, the Prime Minister was addressing the national MPs with a huge request that we today should adopt very unpopular laws, difficult laws, laws that would not give a plus during election campaigns, but without which it is not possible to carry on effective military action without which it is impossible to rebuild destroyed cities and request colleagues: let's adopt laws, and then determine with an exit, a move, a good time now and for any exit. And that's why I asked you to adopt laws, let the Supreme Council vote, then make statements. I don't understand, your honors, what happened, why you couldn't wait until 4:00 till 5:00 when the Supreme Council approved these laws. It's your responsibility, Your Honor, and the Supreme Council is continuing its work. Please. The draft law is announced for consideration, sorry, before the inclusion in the agenda, the draft law amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine. Please be seated in your workplace. And to determine, by making a decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, registration number 4555. I feel after these statements will greatly improve the efficiency of the Council's work, so let's demonstrate the result of the vote. Please support the inclusion of Project 4555 in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:32:55]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions. 69 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 0.37 – Impact, 14 – Economic Development, 17 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 0 – MS, non-fractional – 21. Next question, Your Honor, next question. To make decisions on the issues under discussion. Please, I'll give the author a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u70	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Oleg Lazko. Dear colleagues, MPs. I'm asking you to back up, put this bill into the agenda. It consists of one sentence: to amend article 8 of the Ukrainian National Security Act, which stipulates that Russia is Ukraine’s strategic partner. I propose to exclude Russia from the list of Ukraine's strategic partners. More specifically, it ruled itself out when our Crimea was annexed, when we were declared war and fought at Donbassa. This is a very important question. When we have Russian invaders killing our children and according to legislation, Russia is Ukraine's strategic partner. I ask you to return to this question, to include the bill in the agenda and accept it as a basis and as a whole. And separately, I want to thank everyone, from soldier to general, for protecting our country today. Honor and Glory to Our Army!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! The author urged me to re-vote the question of including Bill 4555 in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[12:35:00]] For 197 We're working effectively, 197. The factions, please. Parenthood: 69, Party of Regions: 0, Impact: 38, Economic Development: 15, Sovereign European Ukraine: 20, Freedom: 34, Peace and Stability: 0, Non-fractional: 21. Next question, dear colleagues. You and I have discussed the issue of making decisions on these issues. I'm asking you to identify yourself now with the Supreme Council. I request 4912 a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the fight against terrorism. Please, Your Honor, determine the adoption of the first reading, that is, the basis of the law, the registration number of which is 4912. Please vote. [[12:36:00]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood - 68, Party of Regions - 1, Impact - 37, 18 - Economic Development, 19 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 - Freedom, 0 - MSM, non-fractional - 24. Next question. 4984 registration number. This is a draft law amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice (recrimination of decisions made by local authorities). The Sanchenka People's Deputies Project. Please, registration number 4984, we've discussed this issue, we need to determine whether to accept it as a basis. Please, National Deputy Philippeenko on this matter, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u72	Thank you. Economic Development Group, Filipenko, Poltavščina. Yesterday we discussed this law, and in principle we all agreed that in order for it to be effectively adopted, it is also necessary to make changes to article 17 of the Code of Administrative Justice. Because we're presumptive. However, we do not provide for the right to appeal to the court of a public authority regarding the prosecution of decisions made by local authorities. Yesterday the author confirmed that he supported this. But since we will not be able to make these additions in accordance with article 116 of the Rules between the first and the second readings, yesterday I read under the transcript a law that should be adopted in order for it to actually work. So I'm asking you to put it to the vote in the paper that we discussed yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u73	Please, this is a serious observation. It corrects the position that we should now vote on. Please, taking into account the amendment that was discussed yesterday during the session, when we considered this issue, adopt this law as a basis, that is, in the first reading. 4984, please vote for the Supreme Council. [[12:38:18]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. For 70, Fatherland Party 70, Party of Regions 0, Impact 38, 18 Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 19.35 - Freedom, 0 - SMS, non-fractional - 23. Dear colleagues, I say once again, I cannot speak again to put to the vote because we have no coalition, and the efficiency of its work you see, the Supreme Council. You've stopped working effectively at the Supreme Council. It was necessary to adopt laws that were important and then make political statements. I'll follow the Rules. Please follow the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] It'll take some time. I'll give you another chance to put it to the vote. I'll put the vote again when the time is right. Please ask me the next question, dear colleagues. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (on the involvement of local communities and public organizations in the issue of optimizing, reorganizing and eliminating the network of public and municipal health institutions). Registration number 2967, honorary colleagues. Please, 2967, please determine whether to support this project on a basis, i.e. in the first reading. We discussed this project in the last session, please vote. [[12:40:03]] For 199 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 67 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 0, "The Strike" – 36, "The Economic Development" – 9, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 15.35 – "Freedom", "The Press" – 0, non-fractional – 37. Dear colleagues, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u74	Alexander Valentine's Day, I address the distinguished national MPs. We discussed this issue yesterday, which is a very important issue so that we can ensure that the medical network is maintained. I'm addressing all the national MPs, so let's concentrate on what we're saying about the collapse of the coalition, and we're going to vote, we're going to vote now. By the way, Alexander Valentine's Day, supplemental. This is not a coalition breakup. They've announced, they're writing individual statements. If so, then as Head of the Supreme Council, if there is a statement by the people's deputies, you will declare your release. I'm offering a compromise to continue my work. Let's vote today on the Supreme Council's decree, let's say the election is scheduled for October 26th, which means, and, dear fellows, we're going to define ourselves and continue to work, and you're in coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, please, Oleg Lazko, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u76	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues, I once again ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the 4555 bill. I am addressing all the MPs and factions, in today's Parliament, a very important issue -- the tribute of honor to our fighters, our heroes, who are now protecting the country. Please, Mr. Head, ask this question again to return, vote, include and accept as a whole the bill 4505***. Colleagues, please gather your sticks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u77	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u78	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"The Fatherland." This bill is very important 4555, it really needs to be voted on. He says Russia and the CIS aren't our strategic partners anymore, and that's the right thing to do. On the other hand, in the same Russia, we now and applauded the way we destroyed our own coalition. It seems to me that this was to be preceded by a general coalition assembly and a joint exit with a message to the country of leaders of three factions and nonfractional ones. That would be our power, not the drag of the rope. Moreover, I am asking God that now Prime Minister Yatsenuk does not fall into emotion and resign, and that there is no chaos in the country, because we can also fight Russia, which essentially declared aggression to us only when there is a strong democratic power, and this is also the Ukrainian factions in Parliament, this is the Ukrainian government, the Head of the Supreme Council and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u79	Please finish the presentation by Viacheslav Kirilenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u80	Therefore, honourable colleagues, before declaring any political decisions, we must also remember the responsibility of the Ukrainian people, especially in the course of hostilities. Because there are ATO forces, they're the only ones, and they don't divide themselves into three factions, and we're starting to drag the rope here. And this bill 4555, now we need to get up and vote, we need it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u81	Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u82	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I propose to put to the vote now and ask in the halls all the factions about a question that I think will unite the entire room now and allow you to work fruitfully as soon as those who went out to the rostrum have just claimed that something is changing in the Supreme Council is the Prosecutor's Office Act. [[Applause]] But stand up and now we're going to test everyone for the suspense: who's going to be in favour of Ukraine being a European state and having a new prosecutor's office, and who's going to be in charge of keeping the public eye so that it can deal with its opponents, and it's going to exist in the same way as it did in Psoriasis.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, please, Kaplan National MP, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u84	I would like to welcome the multimillion-dollar Ukrainian people with a great victory, a double victory and a double blow on corruption, political crime, the cancellation of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council and the beginning of the great, historic, first political illustration with the beginning of the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you have to vote with discipline for every decision in favour of every bill. Don't mess with the Ukrainian people! Don't give the Ukrainian people cancer! He will expel you all from here for the disgraceful decisions you make as a non-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u85	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. Unplug the microphone. I'm asking the National MP to learn parliamentary language, and then I'll give you my word. Please take your seat. People's representative of Qaeda, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u86	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, honourable deputies, the faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Society rejects any accusations, any insinuation of voting in the session room. For state laws, for laws aimed at strengthening Ukraine's security, we always vote for social laws by 100%. You've seen the entire faction of the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" vote and will vote in favour of these important laws unanimously. And so, Alexander Valentine's Day, once again, I ask you to put these extremely important laws, which have not now reached the required number of votes, once again for the vote. And MPs hide their insults, ambitions, and really be statesmen, not persecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-07-24-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, come on, we've asked the people's deputies, we'll try to vote again, we'll do the experiment on the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council now. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the Amendment Act in article 8 of the Ukrainian National Security Foundation Act (national security policy) (registration number 4555). Please vote, Your Honor, for joining the agenda. [[12:48:07]] For 197 The decision is not taken. According to factions, Fatherland is 71, Party of Regions is 0.36 - Impact, 16 is Economic Development, 21 is Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 is Freedom, and 0 is non-fractional 18. Dear colleagues, can we continue to work, to overwhelm a few laws is desire? I'll call it a break by 4:00. Thank you. At 4: 00 p.m. the Supreme Council will continue its work.
