ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We're starting the work of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. While colleagues are preparing for registration, I inform you that today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vladimir Leontijovich. [[Applause]] In addition, respected colleagues today, June 20, according to the United Nations Resolution of December 4, 2000, are celebrating the World Refugee Day. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to point out that, given all the difficulties, Ukraine is doing its utmost to make the people to whom it has granted asylum feel protected, free and safe in our country. And I hope, my fellow countrymen, that by working together we will make sure that there are no Ukrainians among the refugees so that Ukrainians can live in peace in their homes. But to do that, we need to protect our country. And I'm informing you, we had the opportunity to communicate with the Ministry of Defense in the morning. The Ministry of Defense reports that our armed forces units have approached Izvarine's settlement and have in fact completed the border cover operation. [[Applause]] I want my colleagues, always in their speeches, and especially in their actions, to support our Armed Forces, the National Guard, the powerful structures that carry out their constitutional duty and carry out their heroic struggle to protect Ukraine. [[Applause]] I ask you very much, my fellow Members, not to be alarmed in our speeches, especially when women are speaking and talking about numbers of those who have died that are not confirmed. Colleagues! We must do everything we can to enable the army to carry out its responsibility. We should be very constructive and responsible about this matter. And certainly make sure that the families of the heroes who put their lives on their own for independence, for a strong, powerful, democratic Ukraine, so that the families of these heroes can always feel worthy and protected. And to do that, we need to make a legislative base, and together with the Cabinet of Ministers, we need to implement the decisions we have made. Dear colleagues, I'm going to remind you that we're going to be spending an hour of government, but before that, we need to register. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. [[10:06:37]] There were 287 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, in accordance with article 229 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, "the hour of questions to the Government" is being held today. Representatives of the MPs and groups made proposals during the "hour of questions to the government" to hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the health of the Ukrainian population and the preparation of the economic part of the Agreement with the European Union. The right questions were raised by MPs and groups. I mean, your honor, yesterday was also a matter for the Ministry of Defense. So the next format of our work is proposed. First, we will hear from you the Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine Lazarishman Vasil Vasilovich. After that, he is Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Pavel Mikhailovich Sheremet. And then we can ask questions to both the Secretary of Defense and other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. With regard to the format of work, the proposal is: Within 10 minutes of information from the Ministry of Health and 10 minutes from the Ministry of Defence. The same procedure is also proposed with regard to hearing the information of the minister of the economy, so that it also takes up to 10 minutes and 10 minutes to question the minister. After that, we will have time for questions to all government officials who will be able to provide qualified answers, including the offer to the Ministry of Defense. Please, dear fellows. Deputy U.S. Health Minister Lazarishinz Vasil Vasilovic is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u2	Reverend Alexander Valentinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the minister called the Secretary of the Supreme Council in the morning and informed him that he was unable to report. That's why, dear colleagues, the Ministry has instructed Mr. Lazarish's deputy minister to speak with the Ministry. Dear colleagues, let's hear it, and then we'll ask him a question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorary colleagues, when ministers hide from MPs, can make appropriate decisions about such ministers. Is that clear? I see. So please, let's listen to Mr. Lazarishinz, he's a very qualified man, he's long worked in the government, I'm asking you, and then let's ask questions and draw conclusions. Thank you. Please sit down, colleagues. Start the report. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. Please, dear fellows, calm down! Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. When the minister gets sick, we'll check him, say, with documents that confirm his illness. Although the Ministry of Health, I think I can solve this issue. But please, colleagues. The question is very serious, responsible. I ask that you allow the Deputy Minister to speak. After that, we will draw conclusions. Including the staff conclusions, respected colleagues. Please calm down. Start the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u4	Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! The Honourable Deputies! Excuse me. This morning, both the minister and the prime minister became ill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u5	Colleagues! If Mr. Lazarish had been able to bring the minister here, he would have done so. But he can only inform. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to say it again. We're wasting time right now instead of listening to information. Colleagues, when you feel that the information from the Ministry of Health is not worth the attention, we can bear this matter. Therefore, respectable colleagues. I mean, the suggestion, I take it, is to move this issue with the absence of a minister and a deputy, to listen directly to the minister and to draw conclusions about the minister's activities. Is that what I'm saying? Please turn on the microphone for the people's MP Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u6	Paul Rosenco, Vitaly Caller's Faction. Believe me, we have great respect for Mr. Lazarishinec's deputy minister. I mean, he's a very professional person, and he would have told us everything here today. But the position of the strike faction at the board meeting when we requested the Minister's report, the Minister of Health. It is to him as a political figure that there are so many questions in us, the national deputies of Ukraine. We are therefore very surprised to learn why he did not suddenly find himself in the rostrum of the Supreme Council, why there is no first deputy minister. So there is a suggestion: Tuesday’s first question is that we listen to the official health minister’s report on the Ministry’s activities so that we can ask him really professional questions and hear the answers. Then the Supreme Council will draw conclusions on his activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, please give me one minute to the Zarubinsky deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Dear colleagues! Clearly, if there is a government, there are also members of the government. Ministers, not substitutes, are members of the government. That's understandable. But in this case, frankly, I care not about form, but about content. I wanted to ask the Ministry some questions. I think Mr. Lazarishentz is not worse than today's minister. Because he knows the health system from the inside and he has experience, that is, he was not appointed by those, let us say, who would like to see the minister simply as a public person. I want to ask a professional a question. Whoever's standing in the rostrum right now is a professional, you're denying me the possibility of asking an important medical question. That's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u9	National MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Millions of Ukrainian citizens are concerned about the health system. The vast majority of our people, especially the elderly, especially those living in rural areas, are deprived of adequate, quality and affordable medical care. By the way, the first thing that the current Minister of Health did when he embraced this position was to criticize my moratorium on the closure of hospitals. So he still wanted the hospital closed in Ukraine. That's why I think the health issue is important in the country, it's the future of the Ukrainian people, it's the future of our children, and that's why I think we should call here a minister to report on what's been done in the health system. Today, I am proposing to Parliament that it now decide to resign the minister of health as one who avoids Parliament, fails to bring down the health system, fails to reform, and deprives people of opportunities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, take care of yourself. I mean, either resign, or listen, because if you resign, then you don't have to listen, do you understand? So, dear colleagues, please, let's calm down, I need to determine your position. We are hearing a report from the Ministry, not the minister, but the Ministry of Health today, are we not? Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, we have moved to the status of the parliamentary-presidential republic. People's deputies should be respected. They're all personalities, and they didn't just get here. People voted for them. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers should respect them. And that's why we only have to listen to a man who has the political status of a minister. And I'm totally in solidarity with Oleg Lazko and my colleagues at Strike, and they're asking the right question. Just a minister, all right, period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u13	National deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u14	Matvienkov, town of Mariupol, faction of regions Dear colleagues! If we calm down and look at the situation today, we understand very well, I am in solidarity with those MPs who said that health issues are among the main issues that concern our society today. We're talking about problems today. The deputy knows the problems. He owns the situation. In order to draw any conclusions today on the Minister, do we not in any way speak of what he deserves to resign, does he not deserve, but do we want to understand what is happening to medicine today? Where will we go for reform? Therefore, our proposal. Let's give the floor, let's ask questions and get specific answers. What Is Happening to Medicine Today? We don't have to play politics here, quit or quit. You want to resign, let's resign. We're in, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Orotyuk and let us make our decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u16	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Mr. Undersecretary, I'm addressing you with this. In times of war, man’s life is of the highest value. Now, I have a pharmacy in my hands that every Nazi soldier, American, Israeli, has. There's a good burn, there's a Celox blood vessel. Members of the Ukrainian Diaspora did not go to the Ministry of Defence, to the Ministry of Health, and they could not do so to certify, license, this drug used by all the state - of - the - art soldiers! This drug is human life! Absence is death! Well, we have to do real things. And to the representatives of the Party of the Regions. You're not helping the Ukrainian army, so even though you're buying hospital military supplies to treat people on Donbas. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, let's do this once the question has gone to the deputy minister. I understand that the MPs who spoke are still offering to listen. Ten minutes, let's go, let's go. And as for the minister, we will determine. Please, Deputy Minister, 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u18	The situation in the Ministry of Health today is too complex and in the health system. What has been done in these three months? First, an inventory was carried out, full inventory of the sector. And we appreciate what we have today in the health system: almost 14.5,000 medical facilities, we have more than 28,000 doctors, deficits just doctors, nurses about 20,000 -- deficits. Regrettably, the current mortality rate in Ukraine is nearly 2.5 times higher than in Europe. And that leads to a negative demographic situation. We have 14.5, in Europe, 6.9 total mortality. Life expectancy is almost 10 years lower in Ukraine than in Europe. What has been done in these three months? A concept of health care that is being developed today is being discussed in public. Because to this day, I think we should explain to the medical community what we are going to do, what reforms are going to take place. And to people, to explain to society what these reforms will do. Because to this day, this reform has been carried out under the command, and the regions have been doing everything under the terms of "goodyums." Thus, there was no systematic reform of health care. We were in prenatal care, we were in primary health care, we were in emergency medicine. As a result, we have today. In one area, for example, we have a primary health care center, we have a district clinic, we have a district hospital, and we have the district health department. This has to be done. Because these are four major doctors, four accountants, four cars, and the regions they serve are 19-20 000 people, usually. At 12 percent of hospitals today. The ones we have, they make up, they only have 50 beds in their warehouse. So every 10 hospitals are powerless, and that's what we have to deal with. I agree with Mr. Oleg Lazko that can't be taken and closed, it's stupid to close the hospital. Because we're going to close the hospital down and we're going to record, for example, an ambulance for 20 minutes. Is it possible to arrive in the Chernigow region, where there are no roads, in 20 minutes? You can't. [[Applause]] This has to be done. The next question was pay. The medical salary for today amounts to 1,100 dollars. The wage difference between a paramedic and a surgeon in a higher category is 700 dollars, and nurses and nurses are only 17 dollars apart. Medical wages are nearly two times lower than those of industry workers, and even 30 percent lower than those of education. We need to promote prestige and health - care funding. What other questions did we have here? "How can we take some steps to reform the health system?".. First. We have to introduce, in my opinion, a health-care budget system when we provide municipal payments from the budget, maintenance of health facilities at different levels and pay to health workers. And the provision of drugs, expensive materials, will take place at the expense of the insurance system of government, insurance. What will that give us? It'll give you standardization first and control the quality of treatment, because the insurance company will be on its own. We must move towards self - control in health care, giving more responsibility to the Ministry of Health to social organizations, associations. But these functions need to be structured so that public organizations can control and monitor. This could be, for example, professional training, it should be control over the number of beds, the number of professionals we need. And the Ministry of Health should only monitor the quality of medical care and ensure that it is accessible, that is, only control functions are left in the Ministry. The next question everyone's worried about is the state of government procurement. Today, there is a proposal, since the reading that goes around the Ministry of Health relates mainly to these purchases. If they are removed from the Ministry of Health, transferred to the Ministry of Economics, or created a special agency that will be used solely for public procurement, and the Ministry of Health should treat patients and monitor the quality of this treatment, and ensure that people have access to this treatment. Today, the Ministry of Health has 18 national programs. Regrettably, today, in view of the fact that some regions have left, there is an indexation of prices in relation to the dollar rate, due to the introduction of seven - percent VAT in April, the volume of these purchases has changed. So we had re-enlists, there might have been some reproach on this plan, there were re-enactments on these issues. Now, on-line works virtually 24 hours a day, it's announced today, 4 auctions, 4 programs, 14 are still coming to the Ministry of Economics, and I think for two weeks this issue will be closed. One more question. What we were asked to do by members of the Freedom Party, to provide medical care in the ATO regime, in the regions where the ATO is being held. You know, we've created a coordinating headquarters for the provision of medical care in these regions, monitoring all data for every day reports to the Cabinet of Ministers. Medical services from all departments have entered this headquarters. What we said was that we should have the only medical space. One minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u20	This includes the health service of the BSS, the Ministry of Defence Medical Service, and the Ministry of Health. As far as individual pharmacies are concerned. We have orders for these individual pharmacies for 300,000 units to the WHO European Bureau. With regard to hospitals and cooperation with Doctors Without Borders, there's also an application for 10 hospitals. Unfortunately, Doctors Without Borders can only give us one such hospital. What makes up the hospital? This is the tent where the surgeon doctor works, the anesthesiologist and the cost materials, the tools that can help 300 wounded for 48 hours. We have this and it's happening. There's still a lot to talk about and answer. Sadly, though, my time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! We have 10 minutes to ask a question. Please sign up for the question. National MP Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u22	Vladimir Yavorowski, Trinity, Fatherland. My dear colleague, in my constituency, the Trinity, where there are no hospitals, but there are three clinics, is a colossal problem with insulin for the sick. Almost every month, I have to go to the city’s health authority to provide pharmacies. Because these miserable people literally stand on the verge of life or death. Explain to me, tell me, calm my voters, is this problem solved? How will it be decided, and when? Do it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u23	To date, the provision of insulin to Ukraine’s population is made from local budgets. Indeed, in some regions there is a problem with insulins, but these issues are severely monitored by the Ministry of Health and are taken to an appropriate extent even in the areas where the ATO is conducted, we control the delivery of insulins and use. And in general, in my opinion, Mr. Yavorowski, we are planning to implement a government decision on the Reimbursation Order, i.e. the refund on the purchase of insulins, as was done with the treatment of hypertension. This, in our calculations, will allow us to lower prices by about 30 percent on insulins and increase the cost of the sugar - cutting budget. I promise you, personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u24	Please have the next question, People's Deputy Helleway.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u25	Oleg Heleway, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I am very sorry that the minister and the prime minister repeat the disgraceful practice of former Health Minister Bogityrov, who did not attend the meetings of the Supreme Council Committee, although we understand that medicine today needs not cosmetic but fundamental urgent changes that can only take place at the legislative level in close cooperation with both the Supreme Council and the Ministry of Health. Now, as to the question, please tell us, what effect do you have today on the medical facilities in the occupied areas that you have between them? And the next thing we know, as national deputies, is a lot of questions from people. How many injured are now in medical institutions, and how is their medical care done? Because we have a lot of complaints from people running around in pharmacies and thousands of bracelets buying medicine for the wounded. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u26	Thank you for asking, Mr. Hellaway. I've already told you that a headquarters has been created to monitor the situation. I can tell you that today, in the Donetsk region, 683 people have applied for medical treatment, for stationary treatment, 116 people. In the Luhansk region, 285 people were injured and 19 are on hospital treatment. How health care is done -- we control the government's medical departments. We control virtually all the facilities that are and we help out as much as we can. For example, the headquarters was approached by Nico-Pharmaceutical, which provided help with drugs, blood replacement drugs, blood-stopping drugs for 532 thousand dollars. This aid has already been distributed and delivered specifically to each region.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u27	The People’s Deputy Ribakov gives the floor to the national MP Opanaschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u28	Mr. Secretary, I wanted to. The deputy minister, yes, wanted to ask the minister a question. Pass it on, please. First. What are we planning to do with this corruption that we've been doing in medicine for the last 22 years that we can't handle? What new reform is proposed in this regard? Secondly, you yourself said that we have a mortality rate of 2.5 times that in Europe and less than 10 years, why? The main reason why? And what is planned is for us to reach the European age and reduce mortality. And thirdly, there's a very big problem with young experts in rural areas. Here the whole issue lies with the government. There was this situation that we've been planning for the last 22 years to develop territories one by one, and medicine was different. If we are planning to develop a village, how is it planned to develop medical facilities in rural areas? If we're planning.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Well, the questions you're asking the minister, I'll pass them on. If I may, I will not answer them. I can now answer the question of how health care will be provided, first of all, in the countryside and in training. Today, 80 percent of doctors prepared for the budget are assigned to work on the primary line, or family doctors, who are already trained by family doctors. Here, really, our problem is what? It's to complete primary health care reform. That's the first one. To bring emergency medical care, which is so that the patient can see the doctor first and second, so that he can be delivered to the medical facility as soon as possible. As for the question of demographics.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u32	If you don't mind. We invest three and a half percent of GDP in health care. According to WHO, if we invest less than 5 percent, this country is dying. That's why we have this situation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u33	Pavlovsky’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u34	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to my colleague Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u35	Please, National Deputy Ilik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u36	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, 121 constituency, Drogbychina. What needs to be done in medicine is heard and known all the time. We wanted to hear in your report today, your information that you did in 100 days, you, the MOH team. First of all, it's part of the country's immune system. Because there is no secret that bacteriological weapons are being used actively in the Russian Federation. Today, there are absolutely no vaccines, anatoxins, or things in the ATO area that would make these things impossible. By the way, it's not just in the ATO zone. There are no vaccines for the inoculation of children. And now it's clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u37	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u38	will not be secured by the end of the year. This means that some 150-170,000 children will not be welcomed in Ukraine. It's a matter of the MPO, it's a question of the President. This is a question of how Ukraine should move towards the European community. We talk a lot about visa-free mode. And in what way are we going to move to Europe when we cannot take our children today? Pinch them.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u39	Your Honor, Mr. Roman! I think it's just a question more to the minister and to the first deputy minister who's looking after these issues. The question is very important. We're doing an inventory of the vaccines that are there today. And by the end of the year, these vaccines account for 47 percent of everything. 47 percent. And the problem is, because 572 million in this year are set up for the purchase of vaccines. But I'm afraid so. Those vaccines even that are being released by European companies, we have to make it clear today that we're giving up any Russian vaccine. That's the first thing. The second question. If we even do the bidding now, the vaccines that are available in companies in Europe will be placed in Ukraine in 2016. So we went to WHO and UNICEF.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, last question. National MP Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u41	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter! I have a question for you. Now the entire people of Ukraine want to help the army. My colleagues and I are facing a problem. Cedex is a drug that stops blood 100 percent. There is no purchase by the state. We are now buying from Germany, from the United States, through business structures. Why is there no centralized purchase? Why do we not take care of people’s lives? That's the first one. The other one. In this context, I would like the same to be confirmed by a colleague, the people's deputy Kuzmuk, who would also make an argument in this context. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u42	Please let me ask you one last question for Alexander Kuzmuk. Turn on the microphone. The microphone's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! There is a witness, and this confirms once again that the Ukrainian government is working in a peacetime algorithm. What's the answer that we ordered 300,000 pharmacies in Europe? So you start counting who doesn't need your medicine when you get here? Tot Celox, full central hospital. They brought in volunteers who are actually smuggling today, and your bureaucrat officials can't certify it. Irresistible stockpiles of armed forces have already been exhausted. Although they gave away everything they had when they suffered the flu. In the end, you will realize that we have a war today, and you must work fully to preserve the lives and health of our military and civilian populations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kuzmuk. I'd like to point out that providing military personnel with individual medical kits, that's what we're dealing with, but that's the issue with the Ministry of Defense. That's the first thing. It should have been controlled in the past, but we volunteered to provide, including military personnel, with these individual medical kits. As far as blood is concerned, it's not just one Celox, it's almost, like, 10 to 15 drugs. And so, those drugs that are currently registered in Ukraine are shipped to the ATO zone and distributed among the governments of Luhansk, Donetsk district, the Ministry of Defence, the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So these issues are controlled daily and the drugs are delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u45	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, please sit down. Dear colleagues. I just want to inform you, I've spoken to the members of the health committee, and they have serious comments that twice the minister has been invited to the committee, and twice I haven't been able to come to health. When serious health problems arise, it is necessary to treat and perhaps decide who can deal with health care. So I'd like to request a profile committee, so let's form an assignment. Next week, on Monday, listen to the minister, decide on the main directions and the ability of the ministry to deal with this issue and then inform us next session week. When we have to call the minister separately, we will do so when we have to make another decision, please, on the initiative of the committee, we will support the initiative of the committee. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Now, the second question that's very important that we've planned with you is the question of preparing for the economic part of the association agreement with the European Union. I invite you to the parliamentary rostrum of Economics Minister Pavel Mikhailovich Sheremet. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! First of all, I want to thank you for your attention to this very important question. Because this is essentially the future of much of the economy of Ukraine, well, according to its prosperity also as a strong economic state. Along with many meetings and meetings that are in the government and in the Ministry of Economics, including those that are in favor of protecting a national producer in Ukraine, I'm glad that we're here now asking questions of protection, if I can say so metaphorically, for the protection of a European producer from our Ukrainian producer. And that's where it needs to be understood. An innovative, active, in some way (in the good sense of the word), an aggressive manufacturer for whom enough important and interesting opportunities have been found. So what I want to point out right now is that it's not just about government. And the thing is, how do our producers take advantage of the opportunities that are now actually opening up the global market for them, the European market in particular. The Ministry of Economics and Government can help in this process. He does so, including by opening up these markets. But much depends, almost everything depends on how much our manufacturers, managers, entrepreneurs can use this opportunity. So let's do it in order. First of all, what are the preferences, the autonomous trade preferences? The point is that since April 23, these preferences have been in place, and they are still operating temporarily. When it comes to industrial goods, 95 percent of the time is cancelled. For a small group, they are substantially reduced. When it comes to agricultural goods, I know that this is the interest of the Supreme Council in this important sector in Ukraine, 84 percent of import duties in Europe are cancelled, and by 15 percent, they are substantially reduced, tariff quotas with zero duty are applied within the quota. What can the Ukrainian economy gain from this? Various institutions, including the Institute of the Ministry of Economics, have examined and examined this issue further. There's obviously pessimistic estimates, optimistic estimates. All of them, of course, come out as a plus. So obviously, the Ukrainian economy is getting new opportunities from this step. I'll just say the fork where the calculations are fluctuating, between 2 percent of GDP before there's an estimate of an increase of almost a third of Ukrainian exports from these new possibilities. But once again, what I stress is that particularly optimistic assessments have been made, particularly on the basis of the positive world of the central European countries of Poland, other countries that take into account not only the opening of the market, but also the strong internal reforms, the structural reforms that we are carrying out with you, which you also approve of by your laws. I'll also touch that a little bit later. On the question, does the free trade area provide for the cancellation of any preferential regime? No, I didn't. It foresees adequate and appropriate actions on the Ukrainian side that begin to take effect one year after signing. The next block of questions concerns information policy. What are we doing to inform economic communities, managers, owners, entrepreneurs in Ukraine about these new opportunities? Well, first of all, what I want to say is that we do a lot of things, and there's a lot of events, meetings, seminars, programs, they're also funded in a lot by the Ukrainian government and the European Union. Having become the minister of the economy, I made a decision for myself to spend one day a week at least outside the Cabinet of Ministers in Kiev. And almost three and a half months later, I was able to endure that promise. It's almost seven trips, seven days in the east, four days in the west of the country. In various areas, I meet entrepreneurs all the time, with managers, in large circles, in visits to businesses, in universities, and in economic schools to maximize the number of people who know about these opportunities. However, if you ask, still, what the government is doing about it is probably not enough. And so you have to use any other possibilities that are in traditional media, new media media, social media to tell this idea that these markets are open and Ukrainian companies and businesses have the opportunity to use them. And we have it in our plans, accordingly. With regard to State support. I've got four more minutes. State support for Ukrainian exports is absolutely necessary. We're essentially finishing it now, but we're doing it at the same time. Because essentially, opening up these markets is an export incentive program. So the main thing, I've already said about some of them, is let me emphasize again. First of all, I want to thank you for your approval of the standardization and metrology laws as a whole. Because this makes it possible, with the adoption of another law, to hope that this will be done, to formulate, to form the ground that is essential for synchronizing Ukraine's technical regulations with the European Union, to speed up this work significantly. And it's obvious that we're also reforming this department, which is now in the Ministry, so that we can move as quickly as possible in this direction. This concerns both structural changes and procedural changes, and changes in staff in this regard, in order to involve the best professionals, to minimize, to eliminate the negative phenomena that this department can provide, along with the Ministry, with the government, progress in this direction so that Ukrainian entrepreneurs, Ukrainian enterprises can have synchronized standards and regulation along with the European Union. You mentioned the information campaign, I mentioned it. And one more thing, we want to look at where problems are created, where discomfort is created, where we call them "pain points" for Ukrainian exporters in the first place. Including, we have in the Ministry to minimize, remove those things so that entrepreneurs, managers don't waste time on various, especially expert licenses, but they could use this time and I'll end up using it to better understand the market. You're right, as we've come from our history, especially in the last few decades, we understand the eastern direction much better, we understand the eastern market better. The Western market speaks other languages, there's another culture, and in order to understand this consumer, you need certain marketing activities, you need some innovations that must also be made by Ukrainian businesses. Here is a very interesting question that I also want to answer: the development of myths about association, and especially such myths, was about the violent imposition of a minority ideology on school and preschool education. And the question is, "Now you have a unique opportunity to develop these myths directly." I'm developing these myths on a live basis: the association between Ukraine and the European Union has nothing to do with these elements, so it's about the economy that we're talking about with you today. And the time that I have left, I would like to respond to the organizational moment for an active body of European integration. On May 27, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the structure of the Cabinet of Ministers, which establishes a government office for European integration. And I'm sure the Minister of the Cabinet can answer that in more detail. And together these ministries: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the other ministries involved in this work are completing the calendar plan, a clear calendar plan for the implementation of those items that are needed to make the most of the opportunities that the open European market gives us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, let's sign up for a question to the minister. Please, we have 10 minutes. Please don't raise your hands and press the buttons, please. National MP Pavlovenko, strike faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Rosenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u50	Alexander Volodymyrovich, there's our next question, I'll ask you two, if you don't mind, for two minutes. Dear Mr. Minister! Of course, the economic problems of signing the agreement are very important and it's very good that you're working in this direction, but in that matter, the impact faction is very concerned that, along with signing the agreement on one side, on the other hand with signing the visa-free regime agreement, we're actually opening our border. We open our borders to people, to Ukrainians who can take up jobs in the European Union. And it's a very big problem. And I think we believe that we have with you literally six months to convince the Ukrainians that here in Ukraine we will create such conditions for business, for work, for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u51	Turn on one more minute to continue the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u52	I've got a second. For running a business, for learning, for self-realizing, for people to stay here. Because of this problem, all countries in Eastern Europe lost a third of their employment potential, if not more. I'm asking you, I'm asking you, you and I have six months to create a real program to protect your employment potential. How can we protect ourselves if we reduce the salary of the entire budget area today? Once again, a government decree of 20 percent cut off all payments in the budget area. At the same time, Poland is offering our experts three times more wages, at the same price level, at the same price for real estate and so on and so forth. We're asking you again, I'm telling you, we've been with you for about six months. If we miss that chance, we'll have no one to work in Ukraine in 10 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u54	Dear MP, dear Paul, I'll give it to you from your last. I totally agree with you, we don't have six months just to do this thing. We have six months to do many other things that should ensure even the territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine. Wages are apparently higher in the West. In six months, I doubt we'll do anything. It's an economic phenomenon and you have to understand that. Wages do not depend on government decisions, the level of wages depends on the level of productivity of the work – it is an economic axiom. So we need to do short-term things over six months, I think we think in the ministry, in the government to deregulation the market, to deregulation the business that is in Ukraine, to simplify the business that is in Ukraine. Because if we say, for example, we take this rating, which is often referred to as "Business Facilitation", where Ukraine is in the second hundredth, Western Europe is all in the first fifty. Among other things, we can even be better than that if we take, let's say, for example, the first ten countries. If we create business opportunities here, when business is easy to run, when loan is easy to get, there are no fantastic prices like now, we also have to work on that. It's a monetary policy. That is, short-term actions for simplifying and costing business in the country, once and for all. On the other hand, through investment, through increased efficiency of production, by increasing innovation in productivity, which will give us the kind of pay that is at least in our own. Western neighbors. In Poland we see the phenomenon of the return of Poles to Poland now. So thank you for asking me this is an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u55	National MP Zharavsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u56	Please give the floor to Anatoly Kinacha, Head of the Economic Development Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u57	Please turn on the microphone, Anatoly Kinach.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u58	Dear Paul Mikhailovich! The Economic Development Group understands the importance of Ukraine's integration into European and global economic space and the irreversibility of creating modern standards of human life and economic development on Ukrainian land. But we're very concerned about some of the eloquent, formal content of your speech. It's a tough situation. Integration is not just an opportunity for exporters, it's an increase in competition in the internal market, where now 60-70 percent is imported. At a huge number of indicators, we are uncompetitive, starting with the cost of credit resources, the demolition of core funds, the productivity of work, the energy efficiency of gross domestic product. And it's not a theory that's necessary, it's a clear agenda for adapting the economy to the terms of free trade, or we're going to become the raw material of the developed world and the cheap exporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u59	Dear Anatoly Kirilovich, thank you for your question. A few points. Well, first of all, unfortunately, we're turning into the last, I'd say, decades, unfortunately, we're turning into the raw material. I share with you the concern that this trend, the dangerous trend, the bad trend must be stopped, not by the theory, but by the actions. And by the program of action, absolutely correct. Well, the format of the performance here is 10 minutes, it's the way it is. I'll be happy to meet your faction again much longer than 10 minutes plus 10 minutes of question-answer, listen to your ideas about the action program and share our exploits on this subject, and together form an even better agenda that will allow us to move forward in this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u60	People's deputy Glazunov, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u61	I'm asking you to give the floor to the people's representative of Momoto.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u62	Please turn on the microphone of the Momot People’s Deputy. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Minister! A week before the agreement was signed with the European Union. I have a follow-up to the question of Anatoly Kirilovich's esteemed: are all the risks to our economy taken into account and have your ministry developed any compensators to reduce these risks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. We are obviously constantly analyzing the risks that arise. Because now, as you can see, the main risks are not even as much due to the opening up of the European market and the signing of the economic part of the association. The main risks are likely to be related to what is currently taking place in the eastern part of the country. And accordingly, these risks also need to be calculated, what effect they will have on the economy of Ukraine. Because the effect is projected to be negative enough, obviously, and serious enough. As for the compensators, I think. Well, first of all, the best compensator for any change is that there's this open market, because there's a much higher income there. It's much deeper, it's a much wider market that compensates for the investments that are needed in this direction. In addition, there is State support, including that provided by the European Union, especially for the things we do with you – to synchronize technical regulations, to improve legislation, to improve public policy in the field of, inter alia, European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u65	Please, the People's Deputy Solda, the Strike faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u66	Dear Paul Mikhailovich, I thank you for finally being able to carry out a number of projects that have been in Parliament for years on deregulation regarding Euro-integration. At the same time, I have a question to ask you about Bill 3256, which was introduced by the strike faction in a complex general deregulation. We anticipate this project to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to introduce comprehensive laws for the consideration of the Supreme Council within six months regarding the amendment and elimination of all the additional regulators that are now in Ukraine. They have half a month to prepare and discuss, and then the Supreme Council works. Thus, we will force you, including yourself, to work in the direction Ukraine needs today. Do you support this approach or not? That's the first question. And the second question. If you don't mind, Alexander Valentine's Day, the next question is the same from the strike faction, and I'm going to sound the same to Paul Mikhailovich right now. The Ministry of Economics, in parallel with the Ministry of Finance, has established a working group on change and reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u68	created a working group at the Ministry of Economics on regulation, changing the complex tax system, taxation. I know that the concept that the Ministry of Economics tax system in Ukraine is already being developed. I would very much like you to invest in one minute to see how easy the tax system will be: whether the simplified tax system will be preserved, or whether all the taxes that are in force today will remain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana, for your questions. Well, first of all, I thank you for the warm words, but obviously, the laws were passed here in this room, so I thank you again for adopting these laws and for encouraging yourself and us into a comprehensive program of deregulation. It's absolutely critical here, I think everyone understands. We still hear it, I hear it all the time, too, business says that "we don't feel any change yet," despite the intense enough activity you do, and we do. I mean, obviously, we need to go even deeper, even further, more complexly into this question, which is obviously what I'm supporting. The details we're going to sit with you, with the faction, I'm also going to be happy to discuss much more than a minute to answer that question. Changes to the tax system. Yeah, right, we had, I think, a group for over a month, working a group with active public participation. Thank you personally for your participation in this group. It divided into several subgroups, depending on the questions raised. And we finished this job, passed it on to the Cabinet of Ministers. The essence of our suggestions is indeed simplification, obviously not all taxes are necessary, obviously because they are too large in our view. So we're proposing to reduce the amount of taxes to eight, we're proposing to change the very ideology of co-existence between the tax system and society, because there are big ones. There's a pressing system that's still in place, not a developing system. There is a technical moment when tax and financial accounting is synchronized so that three systems are not made in parallel. And also to facilitate the administration of tax administration, which obviously also needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u70	Thank you, Minister. Dear colleagues, we're running out of time and the government's hour is actually over. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can do that, dear colleagues. Considering that we have spent a lot of time discussing the Ministry of Health rather than asking questions to be objective, I ask the factions to register. One question from each faction to the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues, class, I'll tell you again! You'll have a question from Freedom to Secretary of Defense, I'll turn on the Minister of Defense's microphone. Calm down, please. Please sign up for the question. Sign up for the question, please. From factions. I will not limit the time of the answers to the question. Ministers. Please, National Deputy Greenewecki. Questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u71	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Kisse.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u72	Please, People's Deputy Kisse. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u73	Thank you, Sergey Rafailovich. I just have a proposal. I have failed to ask the Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister, are you? I can't see you. Mr. Minister of Economy! I'm talking to you. I want you to hear me. The issue relates to wine and winemaking. This is particularly true in the area of Odessa. You've talked about many preferences for different industries. I realize in a minute I won't be able to shed light on all the problems. I propose that at your level, with the participation of the Minister of Agriculture, a meeting on the situation that lies in the vineyards, in the vineyards, is a very big problem. Please also involve the participation of the Ukrainian people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u74	This is more a ministry assignment than a question. Yes or no? The Ministry will work on that. Please, National Deputy Furman, Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Yuri Orotyuk, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u76	Please turn on Yuri the Orphan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u77	Yuri Orotyuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Questions to the Secretary of Defense, even if the Chief of Genstab needs to be asked. Mr. Secretary, you promised that on June 15th, armor, helmets and so on would come into the army. Today's the 20th, and there's no vest yet. I understand that this is a matter for the Chief of General Staff, but I think it's time for the Chief of Staff to be shot for not even carrying fresh water to our soldiers. I have a question. What kind of peace plan can it be if your airmen are present at Luhana Airport today? A Russian armored machine entered there, and instead of beating them up, nothing is done. We want an answer from the rostrum. You said that if any Russian tank crossed the border of Ukraine, it would be destroyed immediately. I'm informing you that these BRDMs are already over 100, tanks are a few dozen, city systems are over 10. Why are they not being destroyed without regret? And the question of Il-86, why didn't Chief Genstab resign after that? Please respond from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I ask you calmly to ask questions and to listen without emotion to these questions. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u79	Good afternoon, distinguished members of the Supreme Council. I must say that, for a moment, I have received an official report from the Chief of General Staff, the Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, that our troops have completely completed the area of the problem and have restored the state border of Ukraine together with the State Border Service and the National Guard of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u80	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom faction, I ask you to respect the leader of the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the Minister of Defense, with respect to your fellow officers, with respect to the army, at the end of the day! Please calm down! Please answer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. I want to say again, emotions won't close this problem. Please give an example to the whole country. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take away your emotions, that's a serious question, and seriously, calmly, I ask you to discuss it with balance. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u81	I have to confirm what I said earlier. If we met a company and had only 1,213 armoured men in the Ukrainian Armed Forces who were deployed into the military at first with the Soviet authorities to carry out guard services and then to carry out peacekeeping missions, we now have 14,000 vests, and I've taken a vest with me. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is an armchair of Ukrainian manufacturing, which fully meets all the requirements: armor - 4, front - 4, rear - shock absorbers, unloading, kevlar on the sides. The price of an armored vest is 4 thousand 120 bracelets. But I have to tell you right now, unfortunately, we don't have a deadline for that. If they used to say, "It's all for the front, everything for the win," then unfortunately, we feel very strongly about it. For example, these vests, we ordered 28 thousand for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. At the moment, before moving here, I received information that the decision of the permanent administrative board of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to hear complaints of violations of public procurement legislation since 18 June of this year No. 646, on the basis of an AMMOS complaint, had suspended the procurement procedure. The complaint is scheduled for June 26 of this year. What Is AMMOS Society? It participated in the negotiations that took place on May 13th of this year on the purchase of Corsar-4 vests or Corsar-4 equivalent and Corsar-4 vests, M-3, M-4, or equivalent. And offered to make supplies.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u82	Please do not limit the time of the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u83	Garth, UTV-1 at a price, listen to the price! 17,000 700 bucks a unit! And now the Antimonopoly Committee stops and we can't. And every day, we get 250 vests and immediately, without stock, we send them to the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Calm down, calm down, colleagues, calm down! I ask the Attorney General immediately to consider the action of the Antimonopoly Committee and to arrest him right now! When they're stopping the armory from being delivered to the army! [[Applause]] Arrest whoever did this today! Please continue to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u85	Besides, I have to say that we didn't have Kevlar helmets at the start of the campaign. And also, these vests that I gave, we pick one out of every thousand vests and shoot him. They meet the requirements, they hold all the bullets, please. Now we start making helmets. We're also putting 2,000 U.S. vests and 2,000 Kevlar helmets for international arrangements. U.S. troops. In short, we are doing everything we can to protect our people. And by the way, I have to say that those people who are wounded, our fighters, they're because they're wearing armor, they're only injured in their lower limbs. And that's why we react. You look at our tanks, the BTRs, the corks below the clothes already, that don't let the fragments fly. Because our guys are in the back. And second moment. I personally forbade the commanders of all chains until our opponent was confidently suppressed by artillery, and no one in the attack was raised. And we're doing it right.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u86	Mikhail Volodymyrovich, the question was of armored technology, which is constantly being supplied by terrorists from the Russian Federation, along with experts, killers from the Russian Federation, who are killing our soldiers. Please comment on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u87	We had operational information that 10 BM-21 combat vehicles crossed the state border of Ukraine and are in Ukraine. One of our cars was destroyed and captured. And in fact, in this car, we found everything, the evidence base, that this is a machine from an 18-engine brigade from Chechnya, the southern military district of the Russian Federation. There were notebooks, and a card of fire, and seals. This brigade. We've now discovered six of these cars, except for this car that's been captured. We're keeping an eye on these machines. We're tracking them. And only it appears at the range of the gunfire do we immediately open fire. In fact, our actions do not allow them to open fire with a purpose. We only have two moments where the rockets opened fire: this is at Bilopilla's inhabited site, and the second example is at Amurosianka's populated point. Everything else -- we're not letting that happen. It's about tanks. We've detected three tanks. Two of us were damaged last week in the Saur-Mogila area, with one tank completely destroyed, and one of our opponents managed to evacuate. We're in the middle. These are T-64 tanks. They're from the Russian army, no numbers, they're neatly decorated -- we're also tracking. In addition, our opponents have 2 tanks of LJ-2, which are removed from the pedestal. But there's only one of them moving. But he doesn't have ammunition, he's got a machine gun installed in the tower, and we're being tracked down. In addition, there are up to five armoured carriers. We're periodically destroying and. So these are the moments we're keeping in control. All of them. Yeah? No, I have to say again that last week we completely shut down the possibility of coming from the Russian Federation of any armored equipment on the territory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, National MP of the Mochkov, please hit.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u89	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I would like to give the floor to my colleague, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u90	Please, Irina Heratchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to go to the session room -- indeed, the fighting spirit of our army requires support, not all humiliation. And we must realize that if we continue to treat the leaders of the army that way, no one will go there to serve. [[Applause]] But it's quite obvious that we from the Supreme Council have to control and purchase in the army, and everything that's going on there, and do it right. As you know, we now have a temporary commission of inquiry in this direction. We promise you that we will act very hard, but we will. And in this direction, two questions. First. We have a lot of signals from the mobilized, from the families that our soldiers are often not provided with these very tools. And yesterday we found that there is still such a hot line that they could turn to if there are such signals. We ask you today at the level of government, and this is a reference to the whole government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u93	Thank you. We ask you today, at the level of the government, to make such a hot line so that the MPs don't call, not volunteers, but Genstab, so that you can get these signals and know where, in which part of the soldiers there say they have to buy their own uniforms and camouflage. And the second question is very important -- it's military hospitals. Kharkiv and Kyiv, as you know, have been killed by 100 percent of our wounded people today, and there are many shortages of drugs that are not the primary equipment needed. And we're asking you specifically to channel these funds there from the Ukrainian budget. And so these tender procedures don't take 20 days to get them through as quickly as possible, and that saves the lives of our military. Because we have a very large listing today from Kharkiv, Kiev from the hospital, that they lack the necessary medical equipment to save the lives of our wounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u94	I'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u95	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u96	Thank you very much. You're very right and very clearly appreciating what's going on. I have to say and open up, shed some light on one situation: basically, we've had our faults when we were mobilized by the supply standards, we didn't have our underwear, it was like this at first. But it's not me, it's not my brothers. It's been fixed and now people get it. And that's the moment. Battalions of territorial defense, according to all management documents, except for the seven battalions, all the rest of the battalions, are formed and provided at the expense of district administrations. And we have all the problems with these battalions, all the complaints coming out of these battalions. But I have to thank those people who have come to us without ambition in the last few days. And we put order in these battalions: we send helmets, we send ammunition, we don't have any problems at all, and we don't have food problems right now. But we, I have to say, in these battalions, we haven't thrown a battalion of terrorists on the front. These battalions are deep on the roadblocks, and so, indeed, is not enough. The men who served in the army know, before that was the concept of a body in winter. He came to the post and he's handing it over to you. We're exactly the same now, they come to the post at the post office to take their mate's vest and wear it. We have no other way out. When we get the whole amount of this armor, we're going to put people together because we have 22,000 people in the APC. And I said, we have 14,000 vests. So you realize that we don't all have clothes. But we do. Hospitals. We have 296 wounded now, they're all in normal conditions, all of them. We've turned two mobile hospitals in the back of the battle lines, and all medical care is provided in accordance with all the science, the medical aid, that is, everything is going, the evacuation is complete. People are fully medicated, there are no problems, let me tell you more, we're taking the National Guard, taking people with bullet wounds and all, because our doctors have a lot of experience at hot spots all over the planet, we're taking them to ourselves, we're pulling them out, we're doing very complicated operations. But our medics are working with full pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u98	And I'd like to thank you, I'd like to thank you, I'm addressing everyone, the army needs support. There is a powerful, powerful information propaganda being carried out against our army. And those shouting screams are part of anti-Ukrainian propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u99	Dear colleagues! Please, the people's deputy Merikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u100	Please pass the word to Andrew Pavlovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u101	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u102	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Mr. Secretary, is the Ministry of Defense ready for the introduction of martial law in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas? Is the right thing to do now, preparation going to do so? Are the military generals ready to take full responsibility for carrying out full military operations under military conditions? And the second question. Why is aviation, artillery, not used enough when a cluster of terrorists and Russian military equipment is discovered in Ukraine? Now, why isn't there an aircraft involved in destroying Russian tanks in Lugansk?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u103	I must say that the generals of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have full responsibility for what is happening now. Because it is the generals of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the officers who govern the antiterrorist operation. One second. Aviation and artillery are used in full volume. If you call the coordinates of at least one tank, it will be destroyed immediately, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u104	Please, National Deputy Zharavsky. I ask you to calm down, colleagues, calm down and behave yourself. Behave yourself, please, the country is looking at you. Behave yourself. Please, National Deputy Zharavsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u105	Please give the word to Army General Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u106	Michael Volodymyrovich, as a soldier soldier, you must see two things before you for politicians are conditional, but for you there are no. One: a soldier will not hurt a child. And two: there are no separatists in front of you, there are aggressors in front of you, there are diversans in front of you, and they must be destroyed. Second question to the Minister of Economy. It's in our country, "for whom war is fought and for mother's family." We've heard this last report, a demonstration by the Defense Minister that sticky hands, salivated lips walk around these tenders. In three months, the Ministry of Economics did nothing to buy the raw materials needed to sew.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u107	Allow me to finish the question
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u108	So once again, today we don't work as in wartime, we don't work to protect our military and civilian populations.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u109	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u111	Thank you very much. The general of the Kuzmuk army touched on a very important subject. It would be easier if we were given armor, tins, and meat. And everything else, and then there wouldn't be any questions. They give us money we can't invest. Do you understand? We can't. We don't have an economy on the military rails. We're dealing with these issues. It's Elle's call! That's why I'm full. Thank you for your support, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please, we've run out of time twice. Please, we have two other deputies who signed up for the performance. I don't know what you're talking Wait, Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, you can. Because there might be another question for you. National MP, Deputy Geidosh. Two more questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u113	Istvan Highdosh, the Sovereign European Ukraine. Mr. Head, I'd like to give the floor to my colleague Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u114	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u115	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I have a question to ask the Minister of Economics, because, in principle, the state of the economy affects the ability to defend itself. It's an axiom. Mr. Secretary, I've seen your political statement in the media. You said that if structural economic reforms were not implemented in the country, you would resign. Please tell me, where is the enemy that prevents you from carrying out structural economic reforms? Maybe it's your government colleagues who are obstructing this, maybe Parliament has not passed any laws that the government or you've given a structurally functional nature for economic reform? If so, please tell me that Parliament needs to accept that you have already submitted to Parliament in order for structural reforms in the economy to take place in Ukraine? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u116	Minister of Economics, turn on the microphone in the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u117	Mr. Oleg, thank you for your question. What's stopping us? I think we're in the middle of something, maybe indecisive, and not as high as the speed we need. I think so. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think we've all introduced a package of laws that. to the Supreme Council for the past three months. A large number of them have already been accepted, I thank you for that. Others are in committee discussions. There's a list. I can give it to you. But in answer to a question from Oxan, the sale of the impact faction, we're talking about a complex deregulation program. Well, the law mentioned it, it could be one of those laws that's worth discussing, which is worth considering, which is worth adopting, one of them, if it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u118	The last member of the factions to sign up is the national MP of Borita, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u119	Please pass the word to my colleague Irina Spirinius.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u120	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u121	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Health. Please tell us that as early as November 2013, we, the Communists, proposed a bill (3583) on State regulation of drug prices. Why so far. Why are reference pricing issues still not resolved? Today, citizens, voters are in a state of collapse because prices are rising, prices are undisturbed. We propose that action be taken on a concrete basis immediately. at price. Please report what was done for the people today by Minhvod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u122	On the question of reference pricing, the Cabinet of Ministers issued an order in the TEC for harmonization. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, the question was asked in Russian. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry, I don't speak the national language. Please, I'm sorry! [[B in m in s a l in]] Regarding the question of reference pricing. A decree of the Cabinet of Ministers has been drawn up, and it's submitted to the COW for reconciliation. And a bill is also being drafted, and it's being worked on. It will be submitted to the Supreme Council also after agreement by all central executive authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Now. Let's please have People's Deputy Kyle ask a question from non-factional ladies -- and we'll take the risk. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u124	Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Well, first of all, not the remark, but the wish, Mr. Secretary. It's not the screams, it's the people who want to help our soldiers, who are now defending the independence of the Ukrainian state. And our emotionality is, you know, it's exactly the opposite of helping our military. Yesterday there was another sitting of the interim commission of inquiry. And it was clear that some of the bills, laws and some of the draft regulations that came out of the Ministry of Defense were stuck in the Ministry of Finance, which is called "sabotage." And I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to deal with those sabotagers who are hampering, in fact, the resolution of urgent issues. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, what are the laws, perhaps without the Ministry of Finance, and here, in the session room, to make it possible for us to approve to make it easier for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u125	Please, Minister. Dear colleagues, let's just, please, no emotion! Very serious questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, emotions won't help us. We need to take arms and go to the front and show emotion there. Do you understand? That'll be real emotion. That's our answer, fellows! That's why I'd like to ask you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Colleagues, please. From the non-fractional Oleg Lazko. We'll risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! Our best help to the army is not screaming and emotion, it's the vests, it's the helmets, it's the support of the soldiers. And I call upon all the national MPs to go to the military and in word and deed to support our soldiers, and to adopt laws in Parliament that are aimed at protecting the country. And those who don't vote in favour of these laws -- Communists and regionals -- take responsibility for the murder, for the injury of Ukrainian military personnel. Dear Mr. Minister! In your person, I'd like to welcome all the participants in the anti-terrorist operation to the Armed Forces, the law enforcement agencies, the National Guard, the volunteer squads and say, "Boys who hear us, heroes, fighters! We all support you, we will help and help all we can, because you are now on the front of the struggle for independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u127	Dear comrades, I must say that tonight the President of Ukraine signed the Order: three heroes of Ukraine (only by the Ministry of Defence) and 90 by orders. It's a very big floor. Among them and the National Guard, Major General Kulczynski, unfortunately deceased, received a Ukrainian hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I've been a hundred days, you know, the Supreme Commander of our Armed Forces. You can't imagine the conditions under which our army was restored, which was virtually nonexistent a hundred days ago! You and I have been rebuilding the army together. You don't represent the complexity of the lack of resources, the lack of high-precision weapons, the lack of logistics that was destroyed, deliberately destroyed. There are those here who are involved in this destruction of military logistics when we didn't have any military units, almost none, the premises were sold out. And in these circumstances, we have revived an army that today is protecting our country, along with Nazwardia. As long as we resist the most aggressive country in the world, which has one of the largest armies in the world, we resist today. During this time, we didn't get any help from a military technician from other countries, no help in this matter. Besides our army, no one needs to protect the country except our National Guard. Because no one wants to do this except our army and our National Guard, except us Ukrainians. This is our responsibility. And I'm asking you, colleagues, a very difficult situation, a responsible situation. It's not emotion that's needed, it's connection and decisive action both to Parliament and to the government and to our armed forces. We need to support them. Yes, our heroes die, they die in difficult conditions. There's no comfort, it's understandable, sometimes there's not even enough food. What we need to do to restore logistics is we're going to do it. We will force both the government and the Ministry of Defence to provide the army with logistics. And you and I are obliged to give up our last army, but without it no one will protect Ukraine, we need support. I also talk to the media: colleagues, support the army, it's very difficult for them. I've been approached by our fellow MPs, and they have been associated with the parents of our dead heroes, especially Yavorov. You know, the individual mechanized railroad brigade, the 7 heroes who went straight to BTR are burned up, let's give all the heroes who died, including from Yavoreva, a minute of silence we honor their memory, [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. Thank you, Minister. Dear colleagues, in the line of work, Oleg Jaroslavovich, I propose we meet in the working order, I invite the Secretary of Defense. Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u129	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Sir. Dear fellow national MPs. Emotion is now in this House, it's absolutely natural, because it's a response to what's happening in Ukrainian society right now. That energy is the dissatisfaction of people who realize that something is going wrong in our country. What can we do here in Parliament? We don't have to be interested in, and we don't need, immorally and criminally, just to pretend that we're listening to, for the sake of a branch, government reports. Please, specifically, what we have to vote here to stop this vacchanal and this conundrum that's going on. Today, in the middle of government structures, when there's sabotage, diversification and crime, give us concrete draft regulations and laws, we'll vote for everything. Sir, let's vote just on this, let's work tomorrow, after tomorrow for the next week, as much as it takes, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u130	Thank you, Oleg Jaroslavovich, for the offer. I think she's hearing. First of all, let's give a protocol order to the Cabinet of Ministers, because we have not yet approved a defense order, without which, you know, you can't provide today's technically, materially and technically our Armed Forces. And I, my dear colleagues, ask us to support such an assignment. The Cabinet of Ministers, I'd like to ask the government to approve the defense order next week. Coming From the Priority Needs of Our Armed Forces. I repeat, no military technical assistance has come to our country. We need to count on our strength. And we have enough power to win. And as for the offer. I would also like to ask the government to discuss the priority issues that need the support of the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council in an extra-curricular manner, in any mode, will gather to resolve these issues. Thank you. Government, please. And the Ministry of Finance's mandate is not to hold back the issues relating to the financing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Thank you. Please, colleagues, we'll continue to work with you. Now we have the opportunity to discuss with you, to ask the MPs at the conclusion of our meeting, and now, while there is a possibility to vote, I ask, 4402 is the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons (to increase the minimum pension for members of family members of the military service in the event of a loss of a breadwinner). It's a very topical topic. It's about the questions that we've just discussed with you. Please, National Deputy Razwadowski. Let me remind you, this law is discussed in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u131	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 June 2014 at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons, which was submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine to Mishchenko. The bill was designed to increase the minimum pension for members of the family of military personnel in the event of the loss of a breadwinner and the establishment of social justice on the part of the State in relation to these citizens. In particular, it is proposed to increase this size from one to two statutory minimums for those who have lost their jobs. The bill under consideration included five proposals that were fully considered in the second reading. It also takes into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the clarification of the effective date of entry into force of the law, since the laws of Ukraine or their individual positions increase the budget costs and are adopted after 15 July, which precedes the planned one, not before the start of the budget period, which is scheduled. The implementation of this draft law, according to his author, requires additional spending from a government budget of 71.5 million dollars a year. In a bill on June 18, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the National Security and Defence Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. In view of the above, it is proposed that the bill be supported and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it in second reading and in general as a law. Please accept the offer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, can we vote in the committee's second reading? Please, one minute Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u133	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, looking at the hall, there is deep doubt that the two laws in turn will be voted on. And they're still needed yesterday. I'd like to ask, let's talk about them today and vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I think that after this discussion we've had, the entire House will now vote in favour of these laws. I very much ask, fellow believers, this is true of the families of those who have lost their or their children or their parents. And it's the increase in pensions for these families. It is the sacred duty of the Supreme Council to now vote for all. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the deputies come to the hall. I now ask, my fellow Members, an offer to support the committee. Please, Your Honor, I'm asking you to help the army right now when you vote for the law. Lord Ariev, please take your seats. I'm asking you, colleagues, let's all support this law together in second reading and in general. Please, 4402, please vote. [[11:48:22]] For 239. Decision taken. I thank all the national deputies who have supported me. The factions, please. 56 – Fatherland, 25 – Party of Regions, 29 – Impact, 24 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 34, 25 – Ukraine’s Company, non-fractional – 33. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to say, speaking to the people's deputies, that our front here is passing through the hall. And those who are not in the room are deserters who should be treated as deserters. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[Applause]] And I'm asking, dear colleagues, immediately, Victor Josephovich, second law, it also applies to social protection. Please give us a chance to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u135	They say we vote without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u136	Two words, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u137	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! This law has been considered, this is number 2246. All adjustments are included. Sergey Rafailovich Greeneweck Amendment No. 2 has been removed. So I ask you to consider and accept as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I remind you, this is an important question, it relates to the draft Act (registration number 2246) (second reading) amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for the provision of educational aid to persons whose parents are military personnel). You know, it's an important question. And let's support children who will have the opportunity to get an education. Please, Your Honor, 2,246 in the second and in general, please vote. [[11:50:25]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. According to factions, Fatherland is 60, 28 - Party of Regions, Impact - 28, 22 - Economic Development, 15 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 - Freedom, 26 - Company of Ukraine, non-fractional - 33. I ask you, thank you to all the halls that are now and for themselves, and for the deserters making the right decisions, but vote in person for themselves. Dear colleagues, do we have time to consider the following question or take a break? Let us consider the draft Law on Recognition of the Machinebuilding Sector as one of the priorities of the Ukrainian industry. National Deputy Boyarsky Yuri Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u139	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! To your attention is the draft Ukrainian Law on Recognition of the Machinebuilding Sector as One of the Priorities in the Industry of Ukraine (Registration No. 0931), submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skudar, was adopted at the first reading on May 15, 2012, by the previous call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The aim of the bill is to create conditions for the efficient use of the manufacturing, scientific and export potential of the machinery sector in Ukraine and to increase the competitiveness of machine-building products through the provision of machine-building and simplification of customs procedures to entities. The text adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading reached 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, but where are you from in the high hall? You don't have to desert, please sit down, it's all fixed here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u141	27 suggestions and amendments, 21 included, 6 rejected. In general, the text of the law was simplified as a result of the 2014 work. Considering that all the proposals sent by the legislators to the project had been considered and that the project had been completed for the second reading, the committee decided at its meeting on June 4, 2013 to make it unanimously available to the Supreme Council and recommend that it be accepted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Dear Alexander Valentinovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u142	Is there a question about that? Please, thank you, take your seats, please. Is that an amendment? Please turn on the microphone of MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u143	Thank you, Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I'd like you to pay attention to the fact that the committee made a decision in 2013, a year ago, so we need to change "The End of Positions." Because "The End Positions" says this law takes effect on January 1, 2014. Next: '" The Cabinet of Ministers until December 1, 2013." So you have to change the figures for 2015 and for 2014 by getting out of the situation. And we're ready to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you have preceded me, I just wanted to make such an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u145	Dear colleagues! Do you understand the question? The Veterans Act is about recognition of machine building as one of the priorities of the Ukrainian industry. Please, thank you, Yuri Ivanovich, take your seat. There is a committee proposal, honourable colleagues, to uphold the law in second reading and in general. With the amendments highlighted by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. Please, Your Honor, regarding the adoption of this law as a whole. Please. [[11:54:51]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 51 - "Fatherland", 26 - regions, "BRA" - 12, "Economic development" - 18, 12 - "Sovereign European Ukraine", 34 - "Freedom", 26 - "Ukrainian Company", 23 - non-fractional. Dear colleagues, please let's define, there will be suggestions, we can go back. But as long as we have deputies, I have been approached by a commission and, in particular, the head of the commission, the distinguished national deputy Kisse. I'll remind you, it's on the committee, which. For a moment, it is a matter of investigating the deaths of citizens in Odessa, Mariupoli, as well as in other cities in Donetsk and Lugansk areas in Ukraine. There's a huge amount of work on the committee and they're asking them to continue their work until September 5th. No objection, dear colleagues? Let's support the commission's proposal now. Registration number of this Decree 4094a. Dear colleagues, please support the commission's proposal to continue its work, a huge amount of work really. 4094a. On the basis and in general. [[11:56:20]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's take a break when it is. Let's take a break now, the People's Deputy of Kyde, the People's Deputy of Rudzkowski, the People's Deputy of Smitzh -- they want one minute at a time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u146	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We have a further question there, 2629 -- the draft Law on the State Social Programme for the Development of Physical Culture for 2013-2017. There's a committee proposal for us to take this program down, because it's 2014 and I think everyone's going to support it. I want them to vote and take the vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u147	We can shoot without a vote, your honorary colleagues, or we can vote without support. Let's get our respectable colleagues off this issue so that it doesn't overload our agenda. I'd like to suggest who's in charge of enacting this law as a whole. I don't think he's gonna take it off. Please vote, 2629. [[11:57:43]] For-40 The decision is not taken. This question is automatically deleted. Please, National Deputy Rudzkowski, one minute. And the national MP, Smitsch, and we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I am addressing all the national MPs now to return to the Bill (0931) on recognition of the machinery sector as one of the priorities of the Ukrainian industry. It really is. Our machine builders have shown to the world that we can make better planes, better armor, we can make spaceships that are the most competitive in the world. We have to support, demonstrate for our high-tech industries that we count and define this area as a priority. I also turn to the next working week to return to the issue of the prestige of the teaching work and to consider Bill 4104 so that we can return the statutory allowances of 20 percent for all teachers in all educational institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u149	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u150	Thank you. Alexander Valentinovich, I support this. What my colleague Rudzkowski said about this law and the importance to our industry as a whole, because Ukraine needs to revive machine-building. is one of the main pillars of economic development in Ukraine. So I would ask you if today's MPs would not be able to vote, at least send this bill back for a second read, because the importance of this law is not to be discussed and aggrieved. So please go back to this question, and if the Supreme Council agrees, at least put the second reading back on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u151	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to return to this question. Let's support the initiative of the people's deputies. Let me remind you, this is a project (0931) that recognizes the engineering sector as one of the priorities of the Ukrainian industry. Please support the return to this issue. [[12:00:15]] For 203 We're not reaching. For 203. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, come on, there'll be an initiative -- we'll still have a chance. By factions, please turn on. 48 – "The Fatherland", 27 – "the Region", "The Impact" – 21, 14 – "Economic Development", 11 – "The Sovereign, European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 34, 26 – Company, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, a 30-minute recess is announced, up to 12 hours 30 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I hope that the national MPs have been so actively rested during these 30 minutes, and with the same activity, they have the same desire to continue their work. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau was approached by the drafters of Bill 3256: the elimination of excessive regulation (the Vitalia Kowalczuk project). I don't see the author. Vitaly Kowalczuk! Mr. Vitalia! Project 3256. Or we may vote it negative, and then you. You're suggesting we move, I hear. Thank you. It was the author of the bill who asked for a transfer. Please turn on the microphone. It's a bill. Dude, please. 2555. Are you suggesting we put him on the table right now? Talk to you. Okay. Dear Society, then turn on the microphone to the National MP Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u153	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the authors of any bill. Let's not let the chairmans down at the meeting. What we do with you is we force them to violate the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, because the Rules state that voting and decision-making take place after the bill has been discussed. Therefore, it is not necessary to mislead the presiding officers and force them to break the Rules. It is clear that there will be no effective vote now. That's why there's only half an hour to read the parliamentary requests and at the first hour in accordance with the Rules to go to the "Variance." And that's why those who want to kill themselves if you demand that your bills be discussed now, please, but we will insist, in accordance with the Rules, that they be voted on. And if you don't get a successful vote, you can't do it under the Rules anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! The authors of Bill No. 3237 asked that the people’s deputy Kulinić also be removed from the agenda and transferred. I have a question for the authors of Bill No. 2578. Move, I understand. There is an author, he also suggests. And the fourth bill of order that we have today today is No.2555a. People's MP Dudka. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Head. I do propose to discuss this bill today. It refers to the problem of transplantation -- bone marrow transplantation. As far as breaking the Rules is concerned, I agree. And on the other hand, there are things like that. It would be useful to raise questions widely and about the presence of national deputies in the hall and so forth. Still, I offer to do the right thing. It's about health, it's about real life. Bone marrow transplants are the things we see every day in ads, posters, on the Internet people are collecting money. That's what this is about, so the proposal is to discuss. This bill is the fourth time in the agenda. It's the fourth time. And the fourth time we don't get to him. That is why I propose that we consider it today and vote on another day.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u156	Let's do it this way, respectable society. I am now, knowing the number of questions that there are, that is. We're going to have about 15 minutes, these questions. If we have enough time and there are people in the session room, then we go back to that question. Because there are no people now. I think you'll find some sort of understanding at this time in order for the session room to work. Given that we have practically one bill and the parliamentary questions left, we have a little bit of time until 1:00, and then I'm going to read the questions of the national MPs who came. Viktor Razwadowski is responsible for the Ukrainian Defence Minister’s duty to change the status of the barracks’s improved planning for a dormitory in the village of Lake Zitomir district of the Žitomir region. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the application of measures to preserve social work professionals who have been introduced into the network of social services centres for families, children, and young people. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the Prevention of a Technological Accident in the City of Alexandria in Kirovograd. Taras Osaulenka is under the responsibility of the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the weekly publication of information on the cost of supporting the Ukrainian Army’s defence capabilities. Irina Spirina to Prime Minister of Ukraine about the construction of the south road in Dnipropetrovsk. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the order of compensation for employees appointed to military service for recruitment, within the middle wage. groups of national deputies (Fight, the apostle, and others). A total of 4 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of commercial structures and state institutions aimed at raiding property of business entities in Ternopol. - I'm sorry. Roman Ilika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying state of traffic in the city of Borislav Lviv region. Alexander Fitchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation into the purchase of aircraft by the Ukrainian State Border Service. Alexander Fitchuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the conduct of a service investigation into the renewal and appointment of Billows as Head of Internal Security in the Montenegrin Department of Internal Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Olga Mikhailenko to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine for the allocation of gas pipelines to the villages of the Kakhov district of Herson. Olga Mikhailenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the construction of pipelines and inter-urban gas pipelines to the Hersonian district. Alexia Kayda to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine, on the transition of passengers from the Crimean Peninsula to other regions of Ukraine, particularly in the direction of Berdjanska, Odessa, Herson, Geniceska and other resort cities, through the introduction of new passenger trains. Alexia Kayda to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the illegal and fraudulent actions of New Mail, and the involvement of the postal operator in cooperation with separatist groups in eastern Ukraine. Vladimir Boyka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the rights of teachers. Andrija Mishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Kyiv City Head on the facts of the raiding of the property of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. Bogdan Benjuk to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the violation of complaints over dead TV fights on June 15, 2014. Paul Kirilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of Odessa’s district government, Odessa’s city head for the establishment of a monument in Odessa to the colossal Ottoman Peter Kalniszewski. Istwana Haydosh to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the full, comprehensive and objective investigation of the activities carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Kiev City State Administration, law enforcement authorities and other state institutions during the construction of the Presidious Housing Complex and the implementation of the Presidential Programme "Affordable Housing". Valentina Nichiporenka to the Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine for violations of the rights of farmers in Cherkaszczina associated with the delay in rescheduling land leases. Roman Ilika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the additional grant of the budget of the city of Truscavec of the Lviv Region from the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of precautionary measures and the non-admissibility of an exceptional environmental situation. Olga Sikori to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the differentiation of percentages from the healing and rest of children and the abolition of letters from the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Igora Brichenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of electricity to the water management organizations of the Mikolai region. Anatolia Vitova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office by officials of the state utility Lucteplo. Ruslan Solvar to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Government Commissioner for Anti-Corruption Policy, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Provisional Special Commission for the Judicial Review of the General Courts of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to ensure proper examination of the facts of interference in the justice process, the decision of legally unjust decisions, the removal of judicial cases with the conduct of the courts. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, High Council of Justice, Attorney-General of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the violation of legislation in the area of urban activities and the use of effective measures to ensure the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. Vladimir Dudka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for immediate assistance in the acquisition of phenyluktonuria-treated children from Lugansk and Luhansk region. Oleg Heleway to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the sale of property of the communal property of the Yagotina region, a non-residential property of the utility Jagotina Regional Cinematographic Directorate, and the non-residential premises of the utility Jagotina Central District Pharmacy No.20. Vladimir Ariev and Alexander Brigintz to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the activities of the former first deputy head of the Obolon district of Kiev, Vladislav Patrusev. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the full payment of services provided by the State-owned Sanatorium-Kurort complex. Oleg Kanovtsa to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of appropriate measures of prosecutorial response aimed at halting illegal acts or inaction of the Hodorov City Society of Hunters and Fishermen of the Forester. Vladimir Yavorowski to Kiev City Head on providing reliable information on a temporary solution to the painful problem of the transport of the Trojšťina residential array with the right bank of Dniper; namely: the construction of a new transport artery in the form of a fast, modern, noiseless, bridge tram of the Levian production "Electron", which will transport the triads to the Right Bank through the city of Delhi, whose construction goes too smoothly. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the involvement of Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Efremov in financing and supporting the activities of separatist groups in eastern Ukraine, resulting in violations of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, as well as numerous victims from Ukrainian military and civilian populations in Lugansk and eastern Ukraine. Viacheslav Kutovov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the biased and unlawful actions of the employees of the Pecher Procurator's Office of Viktor Kalczynk, Anton Grinkin, Vladimir Savczuk in relation to the company The Society with limited responsibility for Kiev Auto. Maria Matios to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the holding of negotiations with the leadership of the European Union on the possibility of being taken to the customs territory of Ukraine for special protection. Maria Matios to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the State Service of Ukraine, from medical measures to regulate pricing for medical devices. Eugene Melnik to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the gravity and failure to carry out an expert study by the Kyiv Institute of Forensic Research in Criminal Investigation, which is being investigated by the Investigations Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Volinsk Region. Eugene Melnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal sale of property to the Lyubomlian Inter-Conventional Forest Enterprise and the failure to conduct the decommissioning procedure after the liquidation. Edward Leonov to Kiev City State Administration, Acting Head of the Government, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association, Science and Production Company Bilshokik, Director-General of the Public Shareholder Society Kyivmetrobd, Head of the Kyiv Metropolitan Community Enterprise, for the further exploitation of the tunnel throughway complex produced by the Public Shareholder Society, Bilshovik Science and Production Company. Edward Leonov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region for the investigation of the situation related to the illegal activity of the Public Shareholder Society of Obukhivsk, as a result of numerous abuses by his leadership. Vitalia Žuravsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of deficiencies in the work of the pig complex in the village of Malinovka Žitomirsk. Vladimir Litvina to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Provincial District Administration for emergency care to save the life of the newborn child. Paul Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the raiding of the 7th km commercial market and the financing of separatist raiders. Groups of people’s deputies (Tagniboka, Schlemka, and others) A total of 28 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the lack of objectivity and bias in the investigation of the case of obstructing the work of the Ukrainian national deputy. Jury Steca to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the attack on Journalist "Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine" Alexander Senk and damage to the professional equipment of the journalist. Jury Stac to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of the inaction of representatives of the law enforcement authorities of the city of Vishneve, Kyiv region. Victoria Bullach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the construction of an inter-urban gas pipeline in the settlements of the district of Burin. Victoria Bullach to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to provide necessary treatment for Sergio Isutin at the expense of one of the government programs. Veacheslava Kirilenko to the Kiev City Head to ensure the implementation of the Presidential Decree on 100th anniversary of the birth of Helen Tellia, on the construction of the Granny Jar Memorial complex in Kiev, the Oleni Teliza monument and its associates. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for receiving binding material from Dnipropetrovska Municipal Institute for Special Medical Provision Base. Andrija Shipka to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the problems that have arisen in Ukraine’s grain market. Groups of National Deputies (Razwadowski and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the evaluation of the activities of the Charity Foundation "Help Today". Oleg Zarubinsky to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the continuous work of kindergartens during the summer period. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of justice for millions of Ukrainian citizens who have suffered as a result of the fraudulent "watchman" privatization. Leonid Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of peat mining in the Irdin Torforodovost region of the Cherka region. Leonid Dacenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of the rent on agricultural land and other land categories within the population areas used to grow vegetables. Alexander Brigintz to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out a review of the reasons for the failure of the Kyiv Court of Appeal to implement the decision on the renewal of the post of Head of the Historical and Architectural Museum of Kiev, Viacheslav Kulinić. Oleg Tajnibok to the U.S. Attorney General's Office on the Society's illegal activities with limited liability for "Zitlovik" and the Kyiiv Agrarian Credit Association "Senatek" during the participation of natural investors. Sergey Kunicina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of the disabled person of the Second Group of War, participant in the fighting in Afghanistan, Yuri Tihonova and his arrest. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine for the use of measures to bring disciplinary responsibility to the temporary head of the Department of State Land Agency in the city of Browarach, Kyiv district. Mikhail Gołka and Yuri Orotyuk are under the responsibility of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, to verify the facts of the improper material and technical and military provision of military personnel involved in hostilities in the east of Ukraine. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the closure of criminal conduct by the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil region. Ivan Stoyk to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine to review the decisions of Cruise Railways to cancel passenger train No. 117/118 "Chernovitzi-Kiev-Chernowi". Anatolya Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the expansion of the network of regional interdisciplinary expert commissions to establish a causal link between disability and death with ionizing radiation and other harmful factors resulting from the Chernobyl AES accident. Anatolia Denisenka to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for financing the construction of the 3rd Alexivian line of the city of Harkova from the Vaschenka Metro Station to the Odessa station. Markiana Lopachak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the non-admissibility of wrong requirements for officials of the State Migration Service during the issuance of a passport for a Ukrainian citizen to leave abroad. Irina Farion to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for treason by the Ukrainian National Deputies from the Party of Regions, the Communist Party and non-factional deputies. Oleg Pankević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the corruption of individual officials of the Centre for the Adaptation of State Service to European Union standards. Oleg Pankević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper implementation of the Integrated Border Management Strategy, which has led to the failure of Ukraine's State budget to meet the European Union's assistance of a size equivalent to 9.2 million euros. Anatolia Revenka to the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio on the Inadmissibility of Further Zinging of Ukrainian Television by the Russian Television Centre. Jurya Bublika to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the misconduct of officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Guard and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine in the form of service and medical documents for persons taking part in an anti-terror operation. Jury of Bublika to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, State Service of Mining and Industrial Security of Ukraine on the destruction of Semerenkok and Machu Gas Condensate genealogy by the head of the Private Stock Exchange Association Naftogazravljanje, citizen of the Russian Federation, Igor Šturov. Ruslan Zelik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures in the detection of a special crime, the murder of the judge of the Lord's Court of the Montenegrin District of Andria Greenczak. Ruslan Zelik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify compliance with the laws in the area of logging in the territory of the National Natural Park "Viznicki". Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the existence of a stable financial failure and on the Society's limited liability to the bankruptcy and the use of necessary measures to protect the rights of shareholders of the Society. Olega Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol's targeted investment projects. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the investigating judge of the Raven City Court of Peter Denisuk. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the non-derogation of labour rights in the education sector in the establishment of the corresponding allowances; the inadmissibility of reducing the level of assigned allowances for teachers and librarians. Oleg Bukhovec to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission, who is conducting state regulation in the field of energy concerning the improperly imposed excessive electricity tariff in a group on the streets of Kyra City of Chuguyava, Kharkiv district, and receiving the Shareholder Company "Harkivenergosbózb" undue income in this regard. Sergey Balandin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the delay in payment of salaries to employees of the labour team of the Society with limited responsibility for Sobr, which protects the Society with limited responsibility for Stryprogress in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Jurija Orotyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to evacuate strategically important enterprises of the Ukrainian military-industrial complex beyond the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation. Jurija Orotyuka and Leontiya Martinyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Armed Forces of Ukraine in acts of corruption and in cooperation with the special forces of foreign states. Igor Krivetsky to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on violations of the rights of military pensioners. Vadim Merikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, on the verification of the activities of officials of the First and New York City Councils of the Mikolai region during the years 2010 - 2014, regarding the breach of the tender procedure, the use of budgetary resources contrary to their purpose and the illegal alienation and rental of municipal property, including land. Galina Black to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the verification of the inadequacy of the available fees for notarial actions to valid normative documents. Taras Osaulenka and Leontius Martinyuka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the examination of the facts concerning the citizen of Sergio Krivonos, who is the editor-in-chief of the newspaper "News of Swatschina", for appeals to the division of the nation and propaganda of the Nazi symbolism in the above edition. Mikhail Blawajkow to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ukraine’s First Deputy Minister of Income and Congregations on the verification of illegal activities and the avoidance of tax payments by individual enterprises. Ruslana Marcinkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration and restoration of the temple of the town of Nizhina Chernigiv. Alexander Mirno and Yuri Orotyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the housing rights of military personnel and members of their families who are transferred from the occupied territories of Ukraine. And the final request, honourable national MPs, Roman Chernega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an international agreement to open an entry point across the Ukrainian-Romanian state border. These are all the questions, the national MPs who came to the Supreme Council. So, ladies and gentlemen, we've got five minutes to review the "Virgin" agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I ask you to turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Dudzi so that we can discuss another bill of 2575a, which has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u157	Thank you, Ruslan Vladimirovich. With regard to the bone marrow transplant bill, we consulted the co-authors of this bill and decided that because many of our colleagues have already gone to work in the region, we would like to move it to the next week. But one important clarification. This bill, you know, it's the fourth time it's in the daytime, every time on Friday, and every time we don't come to it. So our convincing request, to put it on the plenary for the next plenary week, on Tuesday. We will be very grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u158	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I hope so. Dear people's deputies, then let's move on to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the microphone for the people's deputy Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Koshulinsky, I also address you as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I have introduced, in my view, a very important bill, a decree on a simplified order of transfer to peaceful populations, Ukrainian citizens, the transfer of firearms and weapons of war, which today in Ukraine is said to be about two million only registered (only registered!) to pass it on. transfer to the Ukrainian army in a civilized manner. And Catherinechuk shows that even four, according to his calculations. This colossal aid will be our army. That's why I'm also asking you, Mr. Ruslan, to book yourself somewhere for the next sessional week to put up this document and vote for it. This will be a great help to our army today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u160	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performances in the "Rizzne" section. I invite the people's deputy Glazunov to the parliamentary rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u161	National MP Pavlov, 31 constituency, Dnipropetrovsk district, city of Krivi Rig. Dear voters, distinguished fellow MPs! I appeal to you because I am confident that justice must be restored to those who, at the cost of their health and at times their lives, saved Ukraine from the consequences of the Chernobyl tragedy. Today, many of them have tested the residual principle of attitude toward them by the State. I was approached by a group of bloodthirsty carnivores -- those are the people who, in May 1986, one of the first in the midst of the tragedy was directed at eliminating the accident at CHAES. On May 6, 1986, a special task force was formed in the village of Oran. The village of Oran is 30 kilometers from the tragedy and is a voluntary eviction zone. On May 8-9, 1986, at the command of the commander of the military section of the driver, they were sent to carry out special duties, namely to remove the technicians from the industrial site of the 4th CHAES energy cloud to the grave. For 8 days until May 17, 1986, they were in zones 2 and 3 and received a radiation dose of 25 X - rays. And in fact, there have to be other numbers -- much bigger. No matter what, they worked and gave their health for the benefit of our Fatherland and for the safety of the people, many of them had already died, without receiving a pensionable benefit, and the widowed women were left without support and status. Today, those who are still alive have many chronic incurable diseases, small pensions, zone issues, and no clear list of the car crew’s distinctive composition. In the archives of the liquidators, there is no record of the payments made by military personnel in June 1986. On this day, they are being recalculated, leaving six hours of work for Chaes. But just like that. They lived in the security zone number two, and they worked in zone three for 24 hours a day in a permanent radiation zone. We're talking about social justice, but unfortunately it doesn't apply to liquidators. They are not guilty of being among the first to intervene in the elimination of an accident, and the state has not in turn been able to provide sufficient legal security. They deserve a decent pension, and it can't be that the liquidator who was on the scene of the tragedy in May 1986, who has the status of a second group disability, gets 2,000, 400 dollars, and the liquidator of 1987, with the third group's disability, gets a pension of up to 9,000 dollars. Children and widows must have support and social protection from the state, for they are worth it. In view of the foregoing, I consider it necessary to draw up a commission and to deal carefully with the normative documents from May 6 to June 9 in order to immediately and permanently determine the areas of residence, plurality, composition and listing of the individual composition. I am addressed to the Ministry of Social Policy, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Convinced, we need to consider these issues very soon, and immediately restore justice in relation to these people. I hope you have your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u162	Thank you. I invite the Zarubinsky People's Deputy to the Parliamentary Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, a few years ago, I was approached by representatives of the Association of Oncology, Breast Cancer, and several social organizations. The result of our cooperation was a bill on prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of foreboding and breast cancer. The System Bill, which deals with many aspects of this very, very important subject. He went through his first reading. I managed to conduct it in the session room through my first reading. The MPs voted for him. And then, when the preparation for the second reading began, the bill, and more specifically, the problem, the most painful, the most painful, terrible problem, became the victim of internal discussions and struggles in those circles of the medical community that would take over these issues or take over the money. But the problem did not go anywhere. To date, we have to say that the highest mortality rate among all cancers in Ukraine is breast cancer. Everyone. Every hour in Ukraine, a woman dies of this terrible disease. Every hour! Now we're going to have a different hour, and in that time, there's no real help, no diagnosis, no vertical system to help women. What's more, it's statistics, terrible statistics. When a woman gets sick, she loses 17 to 18 years of her life, and she's got breast cancer. Dear colleagues! This is also a very painful question because the experience of countries that are really placed on a good level of the fight system and the diagnosis of the disease itself has led to a 60 percent decline in the number of people who die in European countries in recent years, even after being sick. We have the opposite of statistics. I want to ask that question again, as I did a few years ago, in the session room. So Ukraine’s draft law on prevention, diagnosis and treatment of foretaste and breast cancer will be reregistered. I think this time these mercantile, completely cynical forms of fighting for who will take advantage of this system will be gone. Do you understand what the problem is? Including a psychological problem for women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u164	Please. The National Deputy Ilik is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u165	Roman Ilik, 121 constituency, Drogobychkin, "Paternity" faction. The events of recent months in Ukraine have put national consolidation at a high stake among others. A large part of the Ukrainian population was concerned that, as common values, individual high - ranking workers insist on old colonial things. The actual legalization of Russian as the second state, the recognition of something other than the Ukrainians of historical memory, the veneration of a non - Ukrainian pantheon of heroes, and so forth. All these non-Ukrainian values have been cultivated 23 years ago in Crimea, in the East, and in the South of Ukraine, and the consequences are now known as occupation, annexation of Crimea, war with pro-Russian terrorists and Moscow diversors on Donbassa. Is there not enough? Does anyone want to continue destroying our country? I would like to remind everyone of the ancient truth that Lena Kostenko sounded well in her day: "The cornerstone of the foundation on which the state should stand in civilized nations has always been a book and a culture." Examples of successful countries in the world such as Sweden, Poland, Estonia, Hungary, South Korea, and Saudi Arabia strongly support this. Israel can be a special example. This national Jewish nation not only revived the dead for more than 2,000 years the Hebrew language as a national language but also placed other traditions of the value of its culture as the foundation of state construction. And now, despite constant threats, it is one of the successful countries in its region. There is no respect for other heroes or culture of historical memory other than Hebrew. I think that's an example that's worth paying attention to. Our country's misery is that all the years of independence, different authorities have ignored the governmental potential of Ukrainian national culture. They either did not know, or forgot, that only the national culture of its language, tradition, historical memory, other spiritual values unite all citizens and are a reliable guarantee of state formation, social consensus, stability and development. Everything else leads to a hidden federalization, to a dissension between regions and individuals, to a continuation of the Soviet practice of ruseization and denationalization of Ukrainian citizens. The strange thing is, when we're dealing with cultural and humanitarian issues, 23 years of hearing voices from an aggressive, anti-Ukrainian minority lying that they can't hear her and they don't want to hear her voice at all, an absolute Ukrainian majority, and it's even now after a heroic stage. Friends, the border of the Ukrainian state is crossing the border.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u166	Please finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u167	The strange thing is that somehow our politicians don't want to hear an example of one of the fighters of the Idar battalion, a native Luganskian who recently claimed that he was uncomfortable in the Soviet army, how much foreign Russian was there, and in this battalion where he was fighting, he was a native Ukrainian. Why can't they hear the voice of that Russian-speaking volunteer from Kiev who first protested the Yanukovic regime and when the criminal law of Kiwalova-Klinsnick was passed? Why is it that people in Crimea and East Ukraine are killed in Ukrainian language today? Once again, the border of the Ukrainian state passes through the border of Ukrainian culture. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u168	The people’s representative, Bezbach, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u169	Please give the floor to a colleague for the trade union of Goncharov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u170	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Dear miners of the town of Gorlovka! Today, the issue that miners are concerned about is the privatization of the Donbas central chess area. It's Gorlovka, Djerjinsk, Yanakiyev, with a population of half a million citizens. My vision of a decision. First of all, the mines in the central area of Donbas have been and are subsidized in recent years. I have been working as the director of the mine, then as the director general of Artemwogil, Gorlovka, now the national MP of Parliament has been working to protect state subsidies for the coal sector, without which the mines could not work financially. It was in all of my performances in the mining teams, it was in the pre-election program, and it's happening. But let's understand that 100 percent is dependent on maintenance, 90 percent of wages are already becoming problematic in terms of the market economy of today's external economic integration. In understanding this, I had a clear perspective over the years 2006-2014. If privatization is the order of rent and concession that was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers back in 1990. With which a team can take the enterprise into a concession by turning it into an open-type stock company. Secondly, this is not a new practice of dealing with businesses. In 23 years of independence, Ukraine is being implemented in all areas of the country’s industry. But let's understand. The coal industry needs to be financially balanced in order to ensure that the coal industry does not shut down its shareholding status tomorrow. And this has always been and remains the priority direction of the central Donbas mine. Now it's time to show some concrete results. So, in summary, I'm going to say that this isn't the news that came out today, this year or any event this year, it's the direction of the central area of Donbas mines in the last ten years. And the solution to what I'm suggesting today is this. First. The coal company, each mine, provides the investor with its financial plan, which makes it financially balanced, but with certain rearms and investments in the area of construction. The other one. The investor provides a clear list and a range of investments that are planned to be invested in each mine. And then, on concession conditions without losing control from the state, coal mines continue to develop and work industrial stocks for the next 25 years. And no mine closure, and that's smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u172	Thank you. May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Momoth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u173	Dear Ruslan Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! Alexander Momot, 27th District, Dnipropetrovsk. This week, I received an answer from the Prime Minister of Ukraine to my question about the situation that has arisen with children's and health camps. Let me remind you of the numbers. In Crimea, 723 children’s rest and recovery facilities worked. Each year they had more than 100,000 children. Only the children’s camps of the Transnistrian Railway received nearly 2.5 thousand children a summer. Today, this number is zero. I am pleased that the Cabinet of Ministers has taken this issue seriously. In response, the Prime Minister noted that the Ministry of Profiles and Minefin had been commissioned to set up a commission to address the issue. First of all, the renovation and reconstruction of the children's centre of the Youth Guard, located on the Black Sea. Now there are three of the four camps working there, one of them is in reconstruction. Moreover, several other objects are to be added to the center that are next to it and require capital repair and reconstruction. Similar centers are to appear on the coast of the Azova Sea and in the Carpathians. But only errands are not enough to resolve the issue of child rest and recovery. I believe that we, as voters, should be actively involved in the work of this government commission, making our own proposals for objects that can be restored within a narrow time frame with minimal investment. The MP’s control will allow the speeding up of necessary construction and capital repair procedures so that the process does not become immersed in bureaucracy and is not lost in officials ’ offices. He is personally willing to take an active part in the work of the commission. I can now provide the necessary information in my constituency. We have 24 facilities in the area, 14 more facilities in need of repair and reconstruction. Their recovery will provide about 6,000 additional seats and 3 extra seats -- almost 20,000 children who could get the necessary quality rest. I'm calling the Cabinet of Ministers, my fellow MPs. We've taken the first step towards restoring the conditions of our children's rest, so let's not stop. The country must and will return to peaceful life and these issues are very important for our future, for our children. Yesterday, "Inter" showed the story: Children were taken to summer camp, children without parents, orphans who were not at sea, and also in an emergency room (windows fall out, furniture malfunctions). That's not supposed to happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u174	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Mikhalchiin. The word Irina Pharion conveys. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! When Confucius was asked: If he had become emperor, how would he have started, what would he have passed the first law? He answered unexpectedly for the majority. And most people are usually wrong, and the minority is right. He replied that he would rename this world, that is, he would call things what they are as they are. We, at least since the protests in Ukraine, have been called peace since November. We're proclaiming a strange mantra that, frankly, without paper, given its stupidity, I can't pronounce. Mantra says, "Our goal is not war, our goal is peace." Thus, peace cannot be established unless we win the war, and if we declare such slogans, it is parallel to the white flag being thrown out and said that we are a nation of losers. And we are not a nation of losers, we are a nation of vigilantes, a nation of knights, and a nation of rebels. And they proved it not only in Maidan, but they have proved it throughout our history. So I would advise the highest of our national pastimes to penetrate into the meaning of words and call things my names, and then here, in our sessional room, we wouldn't have so much controversy. If we have an open and aggressive phase of opposition with the Russian Federation, it's called war. And we need to mobilize all the transmissions to win this war. This is the primary task of the entire nation. And not only does this war win with weapons, not only with armored vests, it also wins this war through the adoption of appropriate bills. This war is also won by holding on to the kind of cultural front that my colleague has rightly spoken of before. So I would very much like us to call things our names. And if yesterday, in this room, someone is being thanked, you have to remember the basic syntax structure of the Ukrainian language that they thank not "whom," they thank not "whom," they thank not "whom," they thank not "whom." Because even the aboriginals who make up the ZNA know this formula: our language is a model of our thinking. The models of our thinking are models of holding our front both militaristic and spiritual. There is no secondary thing, but when the sky gives us a chance to return to the image of the warrior nation, not to constantly demonstrate our position.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u176	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u177	Fearing finally for the whole world to say that we were reborn from the dust of the UPA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u178	May I have the floor of the people's representative of Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u179	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! In recent times, various types of wartime statements have been poured down from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I am deeply convinced that our sacred duty, both as citizens of Ukraine and as national deputies, is not to stir up opposition and fratricidal war, but to put an end to war as quickly as possible, to the war of the State against its own people. At the same time, I would like to stress that every war is finally ending in peace. And when this war is over and people come out of the bomb shelters and basements, they will be horrified to believe that there was a humanitarian disaster in Ukraine. The minimum pension is frozen, with one in four pensioners frozen at a pitiful level and one in a thousand pension. The minimum wage is frozen at the de jure level of 1218 bracelets, and actually at the 853 bracelets, because that's the rate of the first tariff charge. Then 2 million workers receive a lower minimum wage, and another 3 million receive a salary of up to two thousand dollars. The financial assistance at the birth of the second child has been cut by half and by the third. They have frozen anything that can be frozen and not frozen. And I'm not talking anymore about the fact that there's really no social payout in the entire line of cities today, because it's not being delivered. But here's what's not frozen, so these are energy prices and housing tariffs. They didn't just grow up, they flew to heaven and put citizens far beyond survival. And against this terrible background, it is totally unacceptable that there is virtually no topic of social protection in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's despite the fact that on every Conciliation Council, I'm the head of the Social Policy and Work Committee, and I'm demanding the inclusion of social projects in the agenda, but to include them is what. The committee developed, prepared and submitted 59 drafts for consideration by the Supreme Council. I know that the faction of the Ukrainian Company also has a pretty solid project of social legislative initiatives. The only problem is to include them in the day - to - day routine, to discuss, and to make decisions. Thank you for your attention. And please consider my statement a request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u180	The national deputy Ilyashenko is handing over his right to speak to the national deputy Dubnevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u181	Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Jaroslav Dubnevich, Faction UDA, Lvivščina. The problems of enhancing the security of our nation are not mentioned only as lazy. The poor material and technical security, the low level of professional training of the special forces, the insufficient work of the General Staff is certainly rhetorical. So I'm going to try to be as loconic as possible and focus your attention on two really sharp aspects. First of all, it's the restoration of the appeal. The right decision seems to be made, but in practice everything remains on paper. Many so - called experts say that Ukraine should create an exclusively professional army. So I would like to remind you that there are literally a few states in the world, like: U.S.A., Canada, Britain can afford a purely professional army. It's actually a very valuable thing to compare the level of economic development of these countries and Ukraine, so let's face it, it's inappropriate. Moreover, in wealthy nations such as Switzerland and Israel, even women serve in Israel. Of course, one can and must agree with the claim that the types of troops with high-tech weapons, such as aviation, missile forces, and the fleet should be assembled by contract personnel, mostly by officers. They can actually be prepared in Ukrainian military schools or abroad in the right way. However, please tell us where and how to prepare, and most importantly, to maintain a large number of military and senior troops, such as mechanized tanks and tanks? The logic of fighting in the eastern part of our nation shows that this is the single biggest problem. Full aviation and heavy artillery in urban conditions cannot be applied without loss to the civilian population. Here I'm rephrasing an old army saying, "Only the land is considered freed from the foot of an infantryman." Strongly convinced, the military reserve of the State in the form of a regular conscription army must be restored soon with a service term of at least a year and a half. 8 months of learning-fighting saturation, the rest of the time in combat readiness, skill and skill. We have to do everything we can to make this process legislative. And the government, the President of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, is preparing a series of actions to restore a full appeal in the fall of this year. And the second question is, it's called "partial mobilization." When I was working in the district, I faced a series of egregious facts, I'm not afraid to say a criminal nuisance regarding the summoning of citizens by our military commissioners. It's the impression that everyone is called upon without consideration for a list that has turned out to be the most comfortable, practical, non-invasive military specialty, multi-childhood, and there are even cases that call for almost non-clinical patients. A person is called to a summons by a simple message and is not even allowed to collect items.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u182	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u183	It's time to stop this chaos. The new mobilisation law needs to be developed and adopted as tightly as possible, where it is clear to write out solutions that are crystallized for the time being. Thank you for your attention and glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u184	Pavlovsky’s national deputy hands over the right to speak to the national deputy to Lashkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u185	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. At a meeting yesterday with representatives of the legitimate authorities of Donetsk and Luhansk region, President Poshenko presented his plan to resolve the situation in eastern Ukraine. It is about this: holding early elections of local councils, instead of state administrations forming boards, leaving a large portion of taxes on the ground, restoring the economy of Donbas along with the European Union, and special status of the Russian language. The next day, he also promised to put a stop to the fire. I, like President Poroshenko, have a goal of peace, not war on Donbas. But to my firm conviction, peace can be achieved only through a decisive struggle, not through the separate arrangements that we are now seeing. The President’s plan would be to present to Parliament and society rather than to the so - called legitimate authority of Donbas, most of whom have actively contributed to the war and are now openly supporting separatists and terrorists. Thus, local councils on Donbassa, who called on Putin and his hired men to protect the inhabitants from their own gang members, must be disbanded. However, new local council elections should not be held until armed terrorists have been killed. Because elections today are only legalizing separatists. The temporary authorities in the terrorist-free settlements must move to the local patriots who are fighting today for the territorial integrity of Ukraine, not to stay with the same officials for whom Ukraine is just a territory for looting and for enrichment. If President Poroshenko only makes a bet for the approval of local elites, and in fact, the Mafia, we'll get a situation where nominal military action can eventually end. But really Kiev will not control Donbas again, as will all previous years, leaving him as a ransom to the local mafia. In the near future, this will also lead to legal separation of parts and of this Ukrainian territory. We remember the Crimea, which all these years had the highest rights and uncontrolledness of the local elites. So the plot with the Donetsk, the Lugansk mafia, is deadly for our future country, and today we have a unique chance to finally bring the patriots to power on Donbassa, which will forever bind this land to our home country. On the other hand, President Dustenk's decision to stop fire would not bring peace but would allow terrorists to grow stronger and stronger. The only way to bring peace to Donbass is if we have no regrets without delay and destroy the terrorists. You have to be completely naive to expect the terrorists to volunteer their weapons. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u186	People’s deputies, Teagnibok, are invited to the parliamentary rostrum. He hands over his right to speak to the national deputy Sekh.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u187	Dear Society, yesterday after our military died in the battle under Yampol, I asked the Secretary of Defense to report today. You know, right at night, there was some sort of hysteria at the Ministry of Defense. It's not because young boys died in 1995, 1993, 1992, but because of the hysterics that MPs are calling for reports, they're demanding a report about why they're not today provided with all the necessary material and technical security, our military units, those military units that are in ATO sites, and those military parts that are in place today. I'm going to speak very specifically. The military part of the maple, this 24 mechanized military unit, which yesterday has such terrible losses: sleeping on beds on metal springs. We're collecting funds from the entire community, from the district budget allocated to all the military units, a million for our territorial defense battalion, 700,000 for our Lviv battalion. However, we do not see the funds that should come from the state budget. We want to speak constructively and specifically, not only do we want to criticize, but we want to solve the problem together. Mothers cry, women cry, every village, every church today raises money for armor. Should this be the case? I don't think so. We didn't hear the minister speak today, how many soldiers actually died. I know a figure that applies to the military part that is located in Lviv. How many soldiers were killed during the operation in Yampol? Respectable Society! We need to talk about this very clearly and very specifically, together, to solve these problems together, not silence them, not hide them. Human life is the most expensive! Today, the head of the Supreme Council declared a moment of silence only after the note. They're talking about emotional deputies today. And what I'm saying is that I'm very afraid that our new powers, their hearts will not become cold and hard, as they do with refugees. Today, it has received 2,000,800 refugees. We did not ask for help from the authorities. We've invested more than 20 million extra-budgetary funds. Today, the loss of boarding rooms is 32 million dollars. Journalists are running to us. We have women with children running to us. And when I went to the State Administration, so-called Duce, I want to read what the soul replied to me. I turned around.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u188	If possible, the quote is very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u189	I'm begging you. I've asked for refugees to be placed in our sanatorium of State Administration. In view of the aforementioned state-owned Morshinsky Sanatorium, unfortunately, it is not possible to place the people of Slovenia on their own account. And they're giving me an account of how much it's going to cost to move one person. I mean, society can't take this formal approach to the biggest problem that we have right now: we have a war, and we have people who are suffering as a result of this war. And that's the attitude of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u190	The People’s Deputy of the Road hands over the right to speak to the People’s Deputy of Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u191	Matvienkov, 57 district, Mariupol, faction of regions. Dear Ruslan Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! More than 100 days have passed since the beginning of the government. Usually, the first results come at the end of this line. But today, as criticism begins, we are increasingly hearing saying that we do not have the moral right to criticize the Government. It's not what's wrong, it's also a dangerous trend. Do you want to hear only Odys? I would like to recall that under article 113 of the Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is accountable not only to the majority but also to the entire Supreme Council. And in any case, the assessment of the work of the Government is the standard of living of the population. What did the Ukrainian people get during these three months? For the first time in recent years, the cost of social bread to the population has increased by 20 per cent, the cost of gas, water, electricity, gasoline has already increased by 50 per cent and continues to increase. Food and drug prices also rose by 50 to 150 per cent, the world currency rate fell by 50 per cent, with wages and pensions, and other social benefits frozen at the 2013 level. Wage debt is rising, and today it is more than a thousand billion, a hundred million, and unemployment is growing. The adoption of a law to prevent the financing of social security in Ukraine took at least 25 billion bracelets from Ukrainians. Yes, there is a war in the country today that costs enormously. But then it is all the more necessary to look for ways to grow the economy. What are you going to do to ensure the country's economic growth if almost all sectors of the economy are on the verge of survival? Even from the modest estimates of European experts, the decline in GDP to date is 5 per cent. The International Bank has worsened Ukraine's projections for the third time. In the first quarter, the economy was virtually dead, and production in the machinery industry fell 18 per cent, in the steel industry 10 per cent, in the chemical industry 6 per cent. But most importantly, we do not see a specific integrated programme to address the situation; we do not see programmes to support the domestic producer. We are already seeing a number of systemic errors of government that have very serious consequences. For example, Ukrainian agriculture, where European integration was so high on the verge of survival, had reached 7.7 per cent. Ukraine, with international credit, credit lines, had a huge issue. So, what did it do? The Cabinet of Ministers has sent 21.5 billion bracelets to refinance banks, and what has this given Ukraine's economy? Do we have, like, low-cost loans or are they available to industry, small, medium-sized businesses? Nope. In order to support the producer, opiate funds are poured into the virtual economy, the banks selected are turning this money, and these loans will have to be calculated by everyone, regardless of our political beliefs. And if the authorities are really going to talk about real reforms today, then we all need to do it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u192	Please finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u193	To earn this comprehensive reform, not to talk about it being none of your business. It's our constituents' business. We are all passengers on a ship called Ukraine, and we are interested that this ship does not go to the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u194	People's MP Melniczuk is handing over his right to speak to the national deputy Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u195	Dear voters! By unity and faith we have won in the 45th year, unity and faith will help us and now stand firm in this difficult time, maintain the territorial integrity of Ukraine, preserve the state, build a free democratic country and provide it to citizens with a decent life. Historically, there are representatives of different nationalities who speak different languages in the territory of our country, that is, the people of Ukraine differ in language, culture, and mentality. Ukraine's multifaceted and that's good, because that's what we have to accept. On the other hand, we are different, but we are the only one, the only big Ukrainian family. Regrettably, extremists have been searching for parasites on the painful issues of our people. They're trying to get us into a fratricidal war. We want the leaders of the state, the politicians and all of us to have the wisdom to save the country and to fulfill the social order, the social order of the inhabitants of both Western and Eastern Ukraine to preserve the state, to bring back to the people what they took -- peace, peace, understanding, political stability. When a country doesn't break up into pieces, you can group up for anything and solve any problems for the benefit of the people. What lessons should all of us learn from what has been happening in Ukraine lately? First, any monopoly, including the monopoly of power, causes confusion. Because the probability of error in a monopoly is very high. So more authority has to be given to the regions. In order to do so, we need to make appropriate changes to the Constitution, where we clearly prescribe mechanisms for the decentralization of power, for the transfer of real powers to the region. Second, the fight against corruption at all levels, starting with higher levels of government. And finally, when events unfold in an evolutionary way, power changes, political leadership of the country, but the foundation of the state does not collapse. Unfortunately, we change things the way we change things the way we change things, and then the way we change things the way we change things the way we change things. In this case a new authority comes, but the state structure underneath it is very fragile. The law enforcement, the courts, and other systems are demoralized, the mechanisms of government are almost destroyed. As a result, the country is in a deep economic and political crisis, it is losing its pace of socio-economic development, unemployment and poverty. And then most citizens don't see it. So I really want this to be our last attempt at revolutionary change of power in our country, and then we're going on an evolutionary path. Because any power can be changed after the election without violating the foundation of the state. Today we begin to understand this gradually. Sadly, this late understanding paid a very high price, including many human lives. So now, more of a major task than ending the bloodshed, the deaths of civilians, of our military, is gone. Bloody war must be stopped at all costs. Just a dialogue.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u196	Thank you. Please finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u197	Only a dialogue of power with the people. Only reconciliation and understanding is the only way to bring peace and to preserve a single, whole Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u198	To the parliamentary rostrum, the national deputy Stojko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, indeed, today we've only just heard representatives' speeches, a splinter of the Party of Regions and wonder how you can talk like that, sorry, the lie that we're living badly, that we're fighting our people and that sort of thing. But they did not forget who brought Ukraine into the war that led to this state. About the Midianites, the Batons, and so forth. That those bandits who were in charge were fleeing the country today. And today we have a war with this mongoloid race, the fascist Russia, that is gliding like locusts in Ukraine to destroy our nation, our nation. That is why we today need to understand that wickedness will lead to nothing. As Lena Kostenko said, "Don't listen to the wicked, but rely on yourself and work. Do your best to make Ukraine whole." Today, we must really create a situation on the border that will protect the Ukrainians. We need to understand today that those young boys who die every day, in fact, at the border of our country, are our heroes. But we should also take care of them. Because today those battalions that are heading east without armor and helmets are gun meat for the bandits, for the divers, for that Fuhrer Putin, who sends not only weapons, but tanks, BTRs and so on. And that's why today is our main task, really, to stand together. The West and the East are now united. It is not just that part of the remnants of the Party of Regions that continues to impose something on Ukraine. He's still thinking of building a "Great Russia" here. But the Ukrainians in the east realized that there was salvation in Ukraine alone. And tears turn when you see young people with blue and yellow ribbons, with our flag, when those bastards recently called it gangster symbolism. And we're together today, because East Ukraine, the people who are forced to flee from there are going, not anywhere, but to Western Ukraine, to the same last night as the gang members. Putin will never stop unless we give him, forgive him, and we will not expel his terrorists from our holy land. And I have hope and I am sure that the Ukrainians in this war will win. And please, I'm asking Europe not to be reasonable, to the United States, but to do as Churchill said: "Sensibility can lead to disaster." Putin isn't coming to Ukraine, he wants to change the whole world, so let's be the only ones, the strong ones, and we'll win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u200	I would like to take you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u201	Yuri Shapovalov, 146 constituency, Kremenchuk, Poltavsk district Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Today, in Kremenczuk, whose interests I represent in the Supreme Council, there has been a very difficult situation in major industrial enterprises in the city. This has to do with a number of reasons. One of the main reasons is that the main consumers of crematory products are in Russia and in the SND countries. At the moment, for political reasons, they stopped buying crematory cars, cremating cars, and cremating wheels. In this situation, the indifference of government officials and the lack of government procurement in crematory enterprises are particularly heartwarming. This is because the government purchases large quantities of foreign goods by spending Ukrainian money and investing them in the development of foreign nations. The Kremenchuk has a powerful wagon factory that releases trains and escalators for the subway, as well as modern, modern, high - speed electric trains. But somehow the state bought the sad-known Hyundais, which cost one and a half times as much. It's a good thing that with the arrival of the new government and the President, the situation has moved a little bit out of place, and the state has finally acquired two electric trains at the Krukow train station for the needs of the Crucible. Now we're waiting for their official presentation, by the way, they've been doing the factory for almost two years. If you talk about car technology, you want to mention again another Kremenczuk industrial giant who supplied cars to the entire Soviet Union, the Auto-Room Company. In recent years, the state has been purchasing mainly Russian CAMAZ and Belarusian MAZ for the needs of the Ministry of Defence, the State Service for Emergency Situations, and a number of state, transport and construction companies. Where's the logic? Where is the support of a domestic producer who gives thousands of jobs to Ukrainians and pays millions of taxes to the budget? In Kremenchuk, the road car factory is producing modern asphalt-moving concrete facilities, and on the part of the state, there is virtually no order. The same is true of orders at the Kremenchu wheel factory, and the Kremenchu steel mill stands entirely. And it's a sad situation all over the country: businesses are forced to go easy, and money from the state budget goes to the acquisition of goods from other countries. Ukraine loses jobs, loses jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u202	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u203	I'm talking to the Cabinet of Ministers, let's put an end to this disgraceful situation. Ukrainian taxpayers' money should support the economy, not support the economy of other countries. Let's open our eyes, we need to support and help together to develop Ukrainian businesses, raise the domestic economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u204	People’s deputy Kotelak is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u205	Lydia Kotelak, 123th constituency, Fatherland faction. Dear fellow countrymen and citizens of Ukraine! For many years, the issue of citizens living in hostels, the question of the realization of their constitutional right to life, to housing, remains a problem in various cities in Ukraine. This also applies to the electorates of my district, who have lived in dormitories for decades, so far cannot use a certain mechanism to privatize housing. This is about the community workers of Zolocheva, the Premiers, Mikolayev, and the New Distribution, who live in dormitories on the balance of local self - government. In many cases, citizens have been living in these facilities for over 15 years, doing repairs on their own, doing well in the territory of the instigator, and regularly paying for utilities. The important thing is that these hostels are the only residential area that can become their private property. Because the social security of these citizens is not enough to provide them with adequate housing. The Law on Privatization of State Property provides for the transfer to the citizens of their homeowners. However, with regard to housing facilities for temporary residence, legislation requires their residents to renew their residence permits each year and does not guarantee the right to privatization. To implement the constitutional rights of this category of Ukrainian citizens, I have drafted a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the privatization of housing from housing funds for temporary residence. I am convinced that privatizing housing from the housing fund for temporary housing today is an urgent need for a socially vulnerable part of our society. This is true of those who do not have a home, as well as of those who for various reasons have lost a permanent place of residence. The bill will also ensure the effect of article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the right of everyone to his or her own home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u206	The National MP Motchov is invited to the Parliamentary Court. He is given the right to speak by a national deputy named Korniychuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u207	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues and Citizens of Ukraine! The challenges of our nation’s time call for decisive action. Ukrainian society demands full clearance of power from corrupters, fraudsters, and criminals. To my profound conviction, it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as an avant-garde of all democratic processes in society, that must begin the process of cleansing the country. It is no secret that the Supreme Council in today’s composition does not reflect the political preferences of the Ukrainians. Today’s composition of Parliament is totally ineffective because of the low culture of deputies and even lower discipline. In Parliament, however, there are many people who are personally responsible for the tragic killing of people in Midian in winter, sabotage of the necessary measures to carry out an antiterrorism operation, as well as those who have publicly supported or promoted secessionism in our country. In a critical situation in the country, a new legislative body must do so. It should receive from society a mandate of trust to carry out the necessary reforms and to strengthen the national security of the State. Indeed, new, unspotted policies are to come to Parliament, the main task of which is to serve the Ukrainian people. The newly elected parliament will be faced with a number of urgent tasks, primarily constitutional reform, the rule of law system, the reform of the judiciary, the administrative reform of that decentralisation of power. The strike faction calls for the dissolution of the Supreme Council and the appointment of a non-challenging election. We are confident that only full reintroduction of power will give the necessary impetus to the qualitative changes in Ukrainian society. I call on all political forces to support the idea of disbanding the Supreme Council and assigning out-of-order elections to a proportional system with open lists. I am confident that the new Parliament will ensure that the reforms necessary for the country are implemented, that European values are established in Ukraine and that the Ukrainian State is strengthened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u208	I invite the people's deputy Matvienkov to the Chamber of Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] None. People's deputy Guzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u209	Constantine Guzenko, Dniproperty. Ladies and gentlemen of the Dnipropetrov region! After the liquidation of the Transnistrian Chemical Plant, a company that has been involved in the processing and enrichment of uranium for the former strategic forces of the Union, more than 500 acres [500 ha] of more than 20 different enterprises of various forms of property, and 9 nuclear waste repositories of 42 million tons, are located today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a threat to the environmental, radiation not only to the inhabitants of the famous city of Dniprodžinska, but not only to the inhabitants of the Dnipropetrov region, which threatens Ukraine and Europe, as radiation in some places has more than 10,000 x-rays in time. So there's a big request: to support the relevant bills that are under consideration and will be submitted to the Supreme Council, which relate to the legal status of the territory, after which this will allow more reliable protection of the pens of the meters of these shelters, and not to allow the main, unauthorized movement of the radioactive wastes themselves, and to renew the status of being a radioactively dangerous territory in which the inhabitants are unable to live, and what a polluted territory is. That'll do it. the legal basis for further elimination of environmental hazards. And I want to use and appeal to the relevant Ministry of Energy and the coal industry with a request that they will soon be able to bring order to their businesses, such as state enterprises, and enable our citizens, more than 6,000 veterans of former uranium production, to receive a well-deserved pension, that is to say redistribute the archives of former uranium production. I look forward to your support. Thank you for your help.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u210	People's MP Pankević is handing over the right to speak to the national deputy Black. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u211	The Black Galina, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Respectful association, the dramatic events that have recently taken place in eastern Ukraine, testify to the death of our soldiers that war cannot be treated with sufficient responsibility, so war will retaliate. Today, the speech of the Secretary of Defense in the Supreme Council was so soothing. However, events show that there is nothing to be calm about. And those talks of mothers who have recently wandered through Ukraine with waves, giving a witness to it. I'll only remember some of them by memory. Towards the end of May: Mother’s intervention in Lutsk June 1 of this year: Mother’s Speech in the Plain. June 18-19 in Cherniv. Mothers demand that their sons be returned home for more than two months in the ATO zone. In Uzhgorod on June 19, mothers demand to return their sons, who have been in the ATO zone for about four months. Dear Society, What Is the Need for Military Rotations? But because the human body has its own characteristics. He gets used to all kinds of things and in the same way he gets used to danger. Sadly, the sense of danger is dulled by war. The same is true of the problem, and in the near future, we may be able to get presentations from Ukrainians who are now in captivity. Because today, in the information field, we have a lot of information about the fact that there are hundreds, perhaps thousands of captured Ukrainians in the basements of administrative buildings in the eastern part of Ukraine, especially in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions, who are sexually abused. We know these facts, but we don't hear information about whether there are plans to release those people who are in such incredibly difficult conditions today. And so the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom requires that today the efforts of the military leadership be directed not only to free our land from the invader, but primarily to protect the most precious things we have -- human life. Because defeat, a respected society, begins at the moment when the military leadership of the State is accustomed to human death. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u212	Andrew Pavlovsky. One minute. You'll be finishing our day. It's different. [[B in m in s a l in]] Kozemykin, a national deputy, passed it on to Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u213	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction. Respectable compatriots! The new president received a large loan of trust. At the same time, it is also a great responsibility and a huge expectation of people that the President, as the Supreme Commander, will take decisive steps to free the East of the country from the terrorist procession, to ensure peace and tranquillity throughout the country. And that's why I turn, like thousands of people, to the team of Peter Dustenk and his immediate surroundings. Prepare and sign for the President's signing of the President's decrees on enhancing the security of the country's defence industry. And finally, we have to sign a bold decree about the introduction of martial law in the Donetsk and Luhansk region, because there's a real war going on. You have to call things your names and act accordingly. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-20-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I want to remind you that next week you will be working directly with voters in your constituencies. I ask you to make the most of the position that is in the session room, the legislative acts that you approve and that you want to adopt yet more, ask your voters what steps you still need to take now, as soon as possible, in order to regulate the work and the overall activity of our state. Let me remind you that on June 22 we have another difficult date in our history that terrorists can also use to activate their actions. So please, be extremely careful and work extremely actively with the citizens, so that they can also be added to the peace of our country. I would like you to come to the next plenary meeting on July 1st, which will take place here, at 10 o'clock. Thank you. At this morning’s meeting, I declare it closed. Good-bye.
