ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please sit at your workplace and prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system and register the national MPs. As long as the registration takes place, your honorary colleagues, I have traditionally informed you that today is the birthday celebration of the national MP of Ganchukov Alexander Konstantinovich. [[Applause]] [[10:02:44]] There were 305 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is starting its work. Dear National Deputies! On the night of June 14, at the time of arrival at Lugansk Airport, a military-transport aircraft was hit by terrorists from the U.S. Armed Forces IL-76. Forty military personnel and nine crewmen were killed on board the plane. On that same day, there was an attack in Mariupola on a column of state - border service cars. Five border guards died. Dear colleagues! Let us honor the memory of the fallen heroes by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you, please sit down. On behalf of the Supreme Council, we express our heartfelt sympathy to the parents, family members, and close members of the military who gave their lives in order for Ukraine to remain free and single. Ukraine will never forget the names of its heroes. The State will fulfill its responsibility by caring for the families of the dead. And killers don't hide from severe punishment. Praise be to the heroes, my dear fellows. Their eternal memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! Dear colleagues, according to tradition, on Tuesday we begin our work with speeches by the leaders of MP groups and factions. But before I start, I'm asking you, Your Honor, to allow the people's deputies who have been given their mandates to take an oath. I inform you that on June 6, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenka Alexandre Leonidovic, elected to the interim elections of the Ukrainian National Deputy on May 25, 2014 in the one-man election district No.83, and the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, elected on October 28, 2012, in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency constituency, which is included in the election list of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherhood. On June 16, 2014, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ilyashenko Vitalia Volodymyrovic, elected on October 28, 2012 in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency that was included in the election list of the political party "UDA". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Shevchenko, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u3	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u4	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bogdan Ruslan Dmitrovic, is invited to take an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u5	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u6	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine Ilyashenko Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u7	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of Ukraine’s homeland and well - being. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleagues. Let's say hello to our colleagues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make another announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers since 5 June 2014, I report on the election of the head of the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian "Fatherschina" National Deputy of Ukraine, Sobolev Sergija Vladislavovic. [[Applause]] The deputy heads of the faction were elected national deputies: Kirilenka Ivan Grigorovich, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for this. Let me remind you that today we have representatives of MP groups and factions. Please. The word is given to the people's deputy Greenewecki by the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! The situation in the country requires us to make adequate decisions aimed at achieving three key, interrelated goals: responses to national security threats, the development of a new economic model, and the implementation of a national regional policy that will make it impossible for separatism. One of the main tools to achieve these goals is the state budget. Last week, the Supreme Council did not support the main fiscal policies for 2015, not least because of the unrealistic and overly optimistic indicators proposed by the government. I would like to pay special attention to the financing of the security sector. Today we pay for years of ignoring the needs of the army, we pay for the loss of combat technology, the destruction of infrastructure, and most importantly, human lives. By 2014, expenditures on the Ukrainian Armed Forces accounted for 0.99% of gross domestic product. The events of the last months have increased defence spending to 1.25 percent. But this is not enough, especially given how the cost is spent. Today, Ukraine’s defence industry has unique military technology that does not join the army because of lack of funding. It should be recalled that defence industries are enterprises of the long-term cycle and that the annual changes in the amount of money allocated to the Armed Forces make it difficult to form an effective defence order. I think we need to move on to the development of the State Budget in the defence sector for at least three years, to finally implement the Defence Act, which should be 3 percent of the gross domestic product. At the same time, I would like to remind you that stability in the country depends not only on the resolution of the situation in the East, but also on the political component, namely the implementation of an effective state, regional policy. Decentralization of the system of government and expansion of authority of local governments is a logical step in today’s situation. However, it should be understood that it will only create prerequisites for solving regional problems, but it will not solve them, and other tools are needed. By the way, I want to remind you that in accordance with the Ukrainian Regional Development Promotion Act, agreements are to be made annually between the Regional Development Office of the Ministers of Ukraine and the Regional Councils defining priorities and the Regional Problem Financing Mechanism, but there is the opposite. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (No.65) decrees on the cost-saving and non-acceptance of the budget from 1 March of this year's economy prohibit the preparation of new state-owned programmes, or additional funding of existing ones. Clearly, it is necessary to save, but it is important to understand clearly where the political consequences will be. An example. There is a Ukrainian Danube region, a strategic region based on its borderline location, specific to the multinational population and at the same time depressing. At the end of last year, the concept of a comprehensive development programme for Ukraine’s Danube for 2014 - 2017 was adopted. I would like to emphasize that the approval and implementation of the marked programme is of political importance because its key objective is to stabilize the situation in the south of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today we have enough legislative instruments to regulate the relationship between the centre and the region, we need to use them in a literate and efficient manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u10	From the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is the national deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u11	Dear citizens of Ukraine! As we can see, there are no winners in armed civil conflicts. Their devastating effects on the economy, on the social and spiritual spheres amount to full - scale wars. Thousands of people have been turned into refugees in their own country, the economy in decline, the debt on wages is rising, crime has increased several dozen times. That is why the Company requires an immediate peace settlement process. Who doesn't want to hear the voice of the communists, hear the statement of the Secretary-General of the OSCE, who said, "I know what's going on in Donetsk and Luhansk, and that's what our observers who are working on the mission are reporting to me -- that's madness that needs to be stopped." In the view of the OSCE Secretary-General, if hostilities were to be stopped first, then negotiations would be held and then elections would be held. This conclusion is already being reached by the European community and is being addressed to us. We are confident that we will call for "War to a triumphant end!" – this is not the way to peace, this is the way to the destruction of Ukraine as a state, to the destruction of the people of Ukraine. We Communists are confident that Ukraine will return to peaceful life. But for peace and peace in Ukraine to be planned forever, it is vital that people know the truth. That is why we Communists demand that authorities, in particular law enforcement structures, publish in full the evidence of those responsible for the deaths of people in Maydan in Kiev, Odessa, Mariupoli, the Red Army, evidence, not involuntary lies and information fornication, which are free to distribute public and private media and some national MPs, civil servants, including the highest level. In particular, I want to stop at false accusations at the address of the company, as if we were financing terrorism and taking action against the only Ukraine. We've asked, my dear fellows, now I'm informing you to understand the extent of the lie that is happening in our country. We've gone to all the central and territorial units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS, the Hen Prosecutor's Office, the Financioring State, and so on. According to the replies received, evidence of criminal acts by members of the CPI has not been established by the relevant decisions of the competent authorities or the decisions of the courts of Ukraine. Here's all the answers. If anyone would like to know, please sign all the district administrators. It's for those who, let's say, talk about the Company's involvement here. The citizens of Ukraine, even those who have brought the regime into power today, are beginning to realize that despite the slogans that are being proclaimed in Maidan, as the Communists warned, the authorities have not changed but have changed only their own faces. Instead of some oligarchs, other oligarchs came to power. The corruption schemes remain, as they were, but they are now not in those, so to speak, specific structures that have worked before, and in other pockets of those who have come into power today. As it was, so it didn't go anywhere, but now the oligarchs are assigned to the governor's office. As you can see, Nazbank has already printed 22 billion against six billion over the same period in 2013. The new government plans to ban citizens from making deposits on an early basis, which means that people are deprived of the ability to manage their own funds if they are in urgent need. This is the concern for the Ukrainians. But I would like to give you another example. At my address as the leader of the faction came a letter requiring a response and support of the Company's head. Who do you think wrote the letter from? From Right Sector. What does "Right Sector" say and ask the Company faction to control: "Change electricity fees from June and water from July -- how do you understand that? It's the abuse of the people, the desire to become beggars or someone's stupidity or the provocation of our enemies with you." And I want to ask you, haven't you assigned this authority to the International Monetary Fund to sign the death warrant for the Ukrainian people? What else do they require of me? "Adopt the Nationalization Act for All Strategic Objects of the Country, beginning with energy, mining and mining enterprises." So what the Company has long demanded, the ones you've brought to power, they're taking a firm stand against it. So once again I point out to everyone that the Company today is offering a peaceful path in the interests of the State of Ukraine and the preservation of the territorial integrity of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u12	Thank you. This is the Kowalchuk People's Deputy. Please. The faction's head, my colleagues are tipping me off.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u13	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! Like the entire Ukrainian people, we are shocked by what happened last Friday in Lugansk -- the insolent killing of Ukrainian soldiers. When such a tragedy is allowed, there must be a severe analysis of the causes and specific human resources conclusions. That is why we support the personnel changes that will be made by the President of Ukraine in this area. The other one. For months now, the creation of a Crimea Ministry has been under way to assist those who leave the area temporarily occupied or occupied by terrorists. This ministry would also have to prepare the necessary materials for the return of Crimea to Ukraine, the time to create it. Above all, we must finally take an honest and responsible step — this Parliament should dissolve itself. [[Applause]] Today’s parliament’s composition does not respond to the request of citizens, and this is increasingly evident, especially if you listen to the speeches of some deputies. All of us, every MP, should be given an evaluation of their activities by the citizens. How can you do that? The Constitution is in force and must be applied in its entirety. Article 5 of the basic law states that the people have the highest authority. He does it directly and through government authorities and self - government. And these bodies, in particular Parliament, are accountable to the Ukrainian people. According to part three of article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the term of office of the Supreme Council is the competence of the President of Ukraine. That is why we propose: to adopt a decree that announces the self-release of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and asks the President of Ukraine to appoint parliamentary elections for the term defined by the Constitution and, in the meantime, to work on electoral legislation, to move to a proportional system in order to select the composition of Parliament that will fit the positions of society. We have prepared the text of the corresponding decree. I invite all factions and the MPs to support this decision, work together and bring it into the session room. By doing so, we will fulfill our obligation to the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u14	From the Economic Development Group to the floor is invited by the Kuzmuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! The Economic Development MP supports the President's plan to neutralize and eliminate the armed conflict in the east of the country and to establish peace and tranquillity in our country. The MPs analyzed the implementation of the funds allocated to today’s actions and actions by the Armed Forces and military formations. We hope and believe that the interim commission of inquiry will actively work and remove both the sweaty hands and the drooling lips that today revolve around our military formations. We've done the analysis, and we want to thank the Ministry of Finance and State. To date, 11.5 billion dollars have been allocated at a cost. Thanks to our Ukrainian people, who have allocated 130 million dollars. But use. Everything is spent from the State Budget 6.1. Total use of the fund of 7.1 million, leftover 122.6 The state of government procurement is unsatisfactory. A total of 277 procedures were conducted. Of these, 134 were completed and 143 were completed. It's during intense combat, when every hour, every technique, every armor is needed. We ask the President of Ukraine to ask harshly and to commission the Government in the following positions. A fundamental review of the approach to the approval of the main State defence procurement indicators for 2014, identifying the funding lines that the Armed Forces need to implement in the first place. Clarify the state's mobilisation plan. Consider the possibility of purchasing, during a special period, material and technical equipment for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces directly by the Cabinet of Ministers without extending such purchases to the Act on State Procurement. Take steps to improve the existing procedure for public procurement during a special period, including by providing formal grounds for rejecting non-price offerings. The other one. In order to reduce the risk of suspending purchases during a special period, reduce the deadline to 5 working days for processing complaints in cases where the buyer is made by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u16	From the "Fatherland" faction, the word is given to the national MP Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u17	Dear citizens of Ukraine! The tragedy in Lugansk, a tragedy elsewhere in Ukraine, clearly shows that without the unification of the President’s efforts, parliament, and government at such difficult times, we will not be able to move forward. But in order to move forward, we must honor the memory of those who put their lives behind the Dignity Revolution so that the terrible regime of Yanukovich is expelled from the territory of Ukraine. These are the heroes of the Celestial 100 that we propose to give the name Heros of Ukraine, because these are the people who have really done everything possible to enable our country to move forward. But this is just the first step that society needs to take. We are addressing the President of Ukraine, we are taking the initiative today to consider addressing the President, where we would testify to both the position and the Parliament, and we are convinced that this will be a common position, both to Parliament, and to the government, and to the President, from a range of issues. The first question is no doubt the issue of the immediate introduction of a force bloc to the approval of the Ukrainian Parliament. Secondly, we believe that immediate consideration should be given to the conduct of the state of war in the Donetsk, Lugansk areas and, according to the law, to bring all the units responsible for the conduct of the military state to combat readiness in order to be ready to block the country's borders, to ensure the cessation of the so-called visa-free regime, because we understand perfectly that the visa-free regime with the Russian Federation is a visa-free regime for terrorists, not for ordinary citizens. Thirdly, we believe that the issue of halting military cooperation with the aggressor state needs to be addressed immediately. Further military cooperation with the Russian Federation, when we deliver and continue to supply double-dealing, dual-dealing goods, and then kill our boys, civilians, the military -- it's unacceptable and cynical in this situation. That's why we're talking to the government, and the president needs to stop military cooperation with the Russian Federation right now. Fourthly, we are proposing that a single information centre, within the framework of the National Security and Defence Council, be set up immediately to respond and provide objective information on the events that are taking place in Ukraine, especially in the context of the conflict and the unresolved war declared by the Russian Federation. The Supreme Council would also take the initiative to move to a special work regime, and there can be no holidays after this parliamentary session is closed. We think that we should continue the regime that we started from January, when at any time the Supreme Council can be assembled, and also leave the work regime to the actual regular plenary week. It is these initiatives that will allow today to mobilize maximum efforts both for Parliament and for the president and for the government, and to resolve those immediate issues. In addition, we are taking the initiative to create a temporary special commission to investigate the tragedy when actually the most military-transport aircraft was hit. The relevant decision will be passed on to the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u18	From the All-Ukrainian "Freedom" union, the word is given to the national deputy of Tegnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u19	Glory to Ukraine! Respectable Society! It is clear to all that this Parliament, Parliament of this convening, may not work very long. And it seems to me that for all of us today's parliamentarians to convene the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is extremely important that this Supreme Council go to history not only by a shameful vote on January 16th. Not only is it unable to pass excessive laws. It is now important for us that this Supreme Council, at this extremely difficult moment for the Ukrainian State, respond promptly to the decisions that are needed today to strengthen the sovereignty of Ukraine and to preserve Ukraine's territorial integrity. So there is nothing more important than the three subjects that we today need to discuss and adopt positive decisions. This is the subject of opposition to Russian aggression and the fight against terrorism. This is the theme of the illustration. And this is the subject of early parliamentary elections. [[Applause]] First. The opposition to the Russian occupation. We are disappointed by yesterday's decision by the National Security and Defence Council, which has rejected our initiative to spend and establish military time in Donetsk, Lugansk, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. We believe that delaying a week or 10 days is totally unacceptable! This will only allow terrorists as well as Russian bandits occupying the Ukrainian state to strengthen their positions. That's why we're talking to the President today, to the PNB, and we're going to adopt this decision, and the Parliament is going to support it unanimously. The other one. It is now in the order of day for our decision to take action to strengthen the level of protection of the state border. Yesterday, the MPA spoke about this, so I hope that Parliament will be as supportive as possible. There is also a free motion for a decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers on the denunciation of the Agreement between Ukraine and Russia on the visa-free regime. We have to make this decision. In the international arena, we should be pushing the Russian Federation through our partners. Today the whole world is on the side of Ukraine. And yesterday's decision by the United Nations -- the rejection of Russia's proposals -- is true. That's why we need to support all of our initiatives to exclude Russia from international organizations. In addition, we believe that this parliament, which is short-lived, should adopt the Law on Illustration. Because there is no point if such a law is not passed, if this Parliament is unable to approve it, it must be approved by another Parliament, in another way. Because illustration today is a requirement of society. Because our losses in an anti-terrorist operation are simply because the Moscow agency is sitting in various authorities, including in power structures, and it seems to be hostile to the movement of our Ukrainian forces. Similarly, we demand that the Attorney General's Office issue a motion immediately, and that we vote here in the Chamber for the submissions that are already being made regarding the deputies who are helping the separatists. In addition, we have to vote here for the submission concerning Gorokhov, the Medici, about Ephraim, who have to bear personal responsibility for all the crimes that are being committed in Eastern Ukraine today. And finally, about the parliamentary elections for the term. I'm proposing to our coalition partners today and most of them, and I'm proposing to the President today that we all sit together and agree together on the text of the electoral law on a proportional system with open lists, put together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u20	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u21	So that, together with the coalition and the majority of us, together with the President of Ukraine, we could draw up a plan of action, such a road map for the adoption of the new Electoral Law, where there would be an end to the parliamentary immunity, where there would be a reduction of MPs from 450 to 300, where there would be questions about the election of open lists and the question of a transparent recall procedure for the community of MPs. It is appropriate to set a date for the elections, and thus by a joint coalition to adopt the relevant decisions on the early elections to the Ukrainian Parliament. And that's when we're going to win, and that's when we're going to do what Ukrainian society expects us to do today to win over the external enemy and over the internal occupation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u22	From the parliamentary group "Supreme European Ukraine" to the word, the national deputy Jeremeyev is invited. He gives the floor to the national MP, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u23	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Today, the issue is whether Ukraine will be a state or not. And the second question that we need to do together is the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to make Ukraine a sovereign, consummate, single, whole state. Especially since the President's election recently, steps have been taken both outside and inside the country to finally break Ukraine out of state status. To my profound conviction, Ukraine is paying today for the fact that the Western European Union has been given the opportunity to study how it can continue to build a relationship with the Russian Federation. In fact, the Ukrainian question has been translated to a bilateral level, Ukraine and Russia, which complicates our situation. In view of this, the parliamentary group believes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should produce and demonstrate an agreed position for society. This position has to be formulated in the form of a statement. And to answer, not in part, not in a minute's question who's burning something, but to give the answers that society needs that country needs. First. How to describe constitutional order in the country and, above all, in the east of Ukraine. Antiterrorist operations or actions called antiterrorist operations have long been exhausted and do not match any reality in Ukraine. And this is what the committee has repeatedly talked about, addressing the National Security and Defence Council, to the leaders of our nation. Unfortunately, the question is not solved. We need to make comprehensive decisions to ensure the legal, political principles for the President's implementation of his plan for calming down, calming down the country. The other one. We have to assume that no economic transformation can take place under conditions and conditions of war. And today, Ukraine is torn from economic lines. We need to make comprehensive decisions by agreeing with the President, once again, with the government, with the Supreme Council on how to prevent the economic collapse of the country. Third. We need to make decisions that clearly define the principles behind the organisation of state life in Ukraine, not at a political moment, not under a given political power, but what is really needed by Ukraine. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. And finally, the last. In this document, this is supposed to be a statement from the Supreme Council, this could be a memorandum from the Supreme Council, we need to clearly determine further reinstatement of power, we can't talk about it. I propose that, honourable colleagues, in addition to everything else, in the passed law, find that today's Supreme Council, which is discredited by the efforts of all the members of the Supreme Council, they have no right to participate in the next Supreme Council. Then I think it'll be a little more peaceful in our lives. [[Applause]] A clear law should be adopted and the Supreme Council decree should be adopted, in which the elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine would be clearly fixed when and on which principles would be held. You don't have to trick me, my dear fellows! An extremely difficult moment when there is a threat to the state, we play and think about how to equip ourselves! We need to support everything that will give Ukraine the right to be Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u24	From non-fractional, please, to 3 minutes, Oleg Lazko. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday's decision by President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine to stop the fire, I think it's a big mistake. In today's conditions, on my firm conviction, in order to achieve the result, we must act decisively, we must not stop the anti-terrorist operation, we should not allow terrorists to concentrate forces, concentrate additional weapons, capabilities, etc. Despite the President's statement yesterday about the Armistice, tonight the terrorists attacked, wounded our 31st border guard in the Amurosiev region, wounded ten of our military forces in the Slavian region. There can be no truce with terrorists! One simple thing to understand is that we are dealing with a criminal who has made a rebellion to remain in power. After this crime was removed from power in Maidan, this crime took Russia as its accomplices, betraying the Ukrainian state, and separatism is a bulwark for a criminal who wants to remain in power! So if we don't stop trying to set up the negotiation process, we need to continue to "wet" the terrorists, we need to cover the border, we need to continue to force our cities and villages to be liberated by terrorists. We need to radically clean up the entire force on Donbassa, who betrayed the oath to deprive them of their pensions, their wages, their benefits. He is absolutely convinced that it is necessary to change and resign the Minister of Interior Arsen Avakov, who has proved to be unfit for the role that history and the Ukrainian Parliament have placed on him, because he is more likely to be on Facebook than to be involved in an anti-terrorist operation. I find any talk about decentralization of power and the early elections on Donbass harmful. If the Donbas elections of local authorities take place early today, the terrorists we say are illegal, tomorrow they will come legally to power and continue their business. A particular issue about the status of the Russian language. I demand that any conversation and action aimed at expanding the status of Russian in Donbassa be stopped is still in danger. That's exactly why we lost Crimea and we have a war on Donbas, because all the Ukrainian authorities in 23 years of independence have allowed the cultivation of contempt for the whole Ukrainian: language, symbolism, culture, the Ukrainian state itself. A separate issue is the Russian media, which is now a powerful tool in the information war in Ukraine. Notice, though.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u26	Half a minute and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u27	Note that terrorists first capture television towers and include Russian channels. The Ukrainian authorities must make every effort to stop the broadcast of Russian channels in Ukraine. And the last. We will not defeat the enemy until we clear him of the Supreme Council. The enemy is sitting here -- the Communists and the Party of Regions. They're traitors, they're collaborators, so I'm calling on the Head of Parliament to initiate questions about the ban on the Company and the Party of the Regions. And finally, the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u28	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u29	It's an offer. Alexander Valentine's Day, through traitors, through Russian divers, through the lowlanders who killed our aircraft, killed 50 of our military personnel, I offer for the future, to avoid these catastrophes, these tragedies, on every plane that will transport our military personnel to the front, to plant on the leader of the Party of Regions and Communists, maybe it will save our fighters. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! In the morning, we had a small oven in front of Parliament and the caregiver asked them to announce their demands. I'm going to take a short walk on these requirements. Dear colleagues, the broadcast has to work. What do caregivers require? Cancel the summer passes of the National Deputies. Refuse to pay the MPs and recalculate it as an army support fund. Refuse to try to run in the next consecutive election of deputies, who led to a catastrophic situation in the country and became responsible for a large number of human casualties. They also require the adoption of the Act on a proportional system of open regional electoral lists, the reduction of the electoral barrier, and the transparency of spending in elections that will limit the ability of oligarchs. These are the demands, my dear colleagues, that I have made at their request. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. We have today, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, to consider the draft decree, but before that, to protect the sovereignty of our country, but before that, at the request of the government, we are giving an important information message to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And the question, you see, is very important, it is related to the continuation of the war against Ukraine, which Russia solved, this time, an energy war. It's a matter of the energy security of our nation. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich, is invited to the parliamentary rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u31	Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! There's some news. I'll start with the bad news: Russia shut down the full supply of gas to Ukraine. I'll start with the good news in the yard, first of all, summer. The second is we have 14 billion cubic meters of gas. And the third is we've filed for the Russian Gazprom in court. [[Applause]] Honorable Members of Parliament! If I may, I would like to inform you about the progress of the gas negotiations, so that the whole country will once again know what is going on in the gas issue and how will we proceed? Two months ago, Ukraine sent Russia's Gazprom with a pre-darborative claim, which we applied to the Russian Federation to establish a market, non-monopoly and politically unmotivated approach to pricing for gas for Ukraine. Remember, in the first quarter of this year, the price of Russian natural gas for Ukraine, signed between Gazprom and Naftogaz, was $268. It's perfectly clear that the Russian Gazprom is not a charity office. And so $268 is the market price of the Russian Gazprom until there was a new government in Ukraine and until there were political transformations in Ukraine. After that, Russia's Gazprom exclusively under political motivation increased the price for Ukraine by half and the price of almost $500, if it's $484 86 cents. We disagreed and disagreed because this price is unmarketable, unacceptable, politically motivated and discriminatory. In spite of our appeal to Russia, Russia has never gone to a negotiation process aimed at actually signing an appendix to the Agreement and defining balanced and market-based approaches between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. We held several rounds of the negotiations, and the European Commission was also involved in the negotiations in a tripartite format. At last Sunday night's talks, we usually had bad results at night, European Commissioner Otinger was present, the head of NAK Naftogaz and Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, and the head of the Russian government of Gazprom. The Russian side called for the Ukrainian government to participate in these negotiations, and I personally participated for several hours in these negotiations, which ended at three o’clock in the morning. And I would like to report on the outcome of the negotiations, the terms of the negotiations, and our next steps. First. Ukraine and the European Union shared a common position on the signing of the gas agreement. We made a package that is acceptable to Ukraine, adequate for the European Union and absolutely marketable -- I emphasize, absolutely marketable -- for the Russian Gazprom. I can only repeat the position of the head. The European Commissioner for Energy, Mr. Otinger, who is the basic condition, has made the following decision to make the price of gas form as a package and consists of two parts. The first part of the gas price is the so-called low season, which is the mid-term, which predicts that the price of gas is $300 per thousand cubic meters of gas. High Season is a heating season, gas price is $385. I mean, a balanced price, which, of course, is not 500, because we'll never accept it, but which allows us to put gas in the low season by $300, in the high season by $385. This is a completely marketable approach. The other one. We agreed to continue our calculations with Russia's Gazprom, and we were ready to share equal shares by the end of this year and by the end of each part of 6 percent of the year as the actual loan that was signed last year between Naftogaz and Russia's Gazprom. And third, it's important. Russia, even though we offered these approaches, refused to negotiate as such. We realized that such a price was temporary, and we agreed on the need to determine the final price in the Stockholm Court. And this position was supported by the European Commission that we're setting up a temporary mechanism of 300 and 385, we're going to Stockholm and Stockholm is going to decide who's right and who's wrong. If Gazprom is wrong, they'll pay us if we're wrong, we'll pay Gazprom. Regrettably, in principle, the Russian Federation refused to actually negotiate. According to the Ukrainian government, the gas deal is part of the Russian plan for aggression against the Ukrainian State. This is part of a plan that envisions a series of measures to destroy Ukrainian independence and statehood. This began with the annexation of Crimea, the destabilisation of the situation in Donetsk and Lugansk, the financing of terrorists in eastern Ukraine, the sending of bandits from Russia to Donbas territory, the transfer of arms, technology, the implementation of gas pressure on Ukrainian consumers, the economic blockade of Ukraine, the blocking of bilateral trade and economic relations and the financial pressure. Here's Russia's plan. Russia cannot understand in any way that Ukraine is an independent state and not Russia to determine where we are going. And we're going to the European Union. [[Applause]] It is also clear that this whole gas-related vachanal was also installed before the President of Ukraine's visit to Brussels, where he will sign the second part of the economic part of the agreement with the European Union. I would like to remind you that the political part was signed by the government, and now the government is going purposefully towards the realization, concrete implementation of European integration in Ukraine. As far as we're concerned. We even waited for Russia to say that they were going to court yesterday. Russia filed a lawsuit with the Stockholm Court and the Ukrainian campaign NAC Naftogaz Ukraine immediately filed a lawsuit that we applied for two months ago. Russia demands US$4.5 billion from Ukraine, Ukraine demands Russia for a well-founded, calculated and proven $6 billion. For a brief reference, just so that you, honourable Members of Parliament, understand what the gas market is and what our relationship is with the Russian Gazprom. Ukraine is the third largest market in Gazprom. In front of us Germans and Turkey, we are third. In total, Ukraine has paid Russia’s Gazprom, starting in 2009, including payments, both in Naftogazu and in the real economy, think of $50 billion! So all these stories that our Russian neighbors are telling us about what they are helping us are not true. We need to find out who's helping who. From the Ukrainian pocket, we paid $50 billion out of our campaign pockets. Russia has received this amount of money from Ukraine, and we believe that there are overpayments in this figure, and that's what we're going to demand from Russia's Gazprom. The other one. As for further action on the situation in the middle of the country. NCRE was commissioned to introduce economically sound tariffs for the transit of Russian natural gas into Ukraine. Let me remind you that we do not have an agreement with European partners on gas transit. And in fact, Russia is now renting the Ukrainian gas transport system because there's a contract. And Russia is transporting its natural gas at tariffs, which we believe is not economically sound. That's why we went to our European partners to move the gas point from the western border to the eastern border. And we are ready to have our European partners, together with Ukraine, account for the supply of natural gas to the member countries of the European Union today. So that the Russians won't tell us that someone stole something from someone. With regard to the operation of the gas transport system. The government will approve two draft laws tomorrow. One of the draft laws is the Law on Joint Exploitation and Modernization of the Ukrainian GTS. Honorable Members of Parliament! The time has come for a joint company to be set up in Ukraine, where the members of this company should be members of the Energy Community, namely the EU member countries, which would modernise and operate the Ukrainian gas transport system. In doing so, the control of this joint company must remain in the state. That's why we're going to approve the bill tomorrow. And I am asking Parliament to consider immediately the draft Law on the Exploitation and Modernization of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System. If we work together with the European Union on transit and gas storage. This will radically change the European energy security map. Russia will no longer dictate its terms. The other one. We're dealing with reverse issues. And the question of reverse is not just technical, the question of reverse is also political. I think you've heard the Russian President's statement that they are taking a firm stand against the reverse. And we stand firm against the monopoly. We are definitely against economic and energy discrimination. And we are firmly opposed to Russia's attempts to violate European legislation and to violate both the Energy Charter and the Energy Partnership Treaty that Ukraine has signed and ratified. That is why our delegation is now going to the European Union. We started a so-called small reverse. The amount of this small reverse is not enough to provide Ukraine with gas. But when a large reverse is opened, the total supply to Ukraine can reach 15 billion cubic feet [15 billion cubic meters] of gas. This is diversification, and this amount is sufficient to provide Ukraine with natural gas. I would also like to point out that tomorrow the government will be considering a bill on the state of emergency in energy. We must be prepared for the most difficult circumstances and reasons. And so the order of the state of emergency for energy, the control mechanisms, the energy efficiency mechanisms should be reflected in the law, and the government should have a significant impact on the country's energy sector. With regard to energy efficiency, the government has created a crisis energy headquarters. Headed by the crisis energy headquarters of Vice Prime Minister, Regional Development Minister Vladimir Groissman. Deputy Emergency Energy Headquarters, Yuri Prodan. Staff tasks: energy balance, consumption balance, consumption balance and energy efficiency. We'll never get off a Russian gas needle if in the winter we open windows and say: we discovered a window to make it colder in the apartment. If we spend so much energy as we spend more than 20 years, we'll pay Russia 50 billion dollars again for another five years and we'll never get to where we're going. It's a real energy efficiency. That's why in our problems, consumption cuts. The less people eat, the less they pay. The more efficient businesses are consumed, the less they pay. In particular, I would like to point out that the government and the state should not care about the price of gas for industry. Sounds beautiful, but it's not right. Look at it in the European Union. The price for the population is twice as high as the price for industry. What is the price for industry? Well, that's not the price for oligarchs. They cost me less. It's the price for jobs in the country. It's a price for a competitive economy. How can we compete, if Putin knows very well, with the price of $500 per natural gas for the Ukrainian economy, we will not sell anything to anyone. Because our prices will be uncompetitive. Even compared to the European Union, where the price is 40 percent lower. That's why the government's job is to fight for the economy, fight for companies, fight for people, with millions of people working in the metallurgical sector, in chemistry. It's family, it's work, it's pay. [[Applause]] And therefore, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine, I will not give up without a fight. We will beat the price that is marketable, fair, and fair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u32	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we don't have any questions, do we? The government has to work. We got the information. Dear colleagues, you can approach and communicate in your work mode. But I would ask you not to do that, because we need to make very responsible decisions right now, we can do that threes later. I ask the secretariat to make an announcement so that all the deputies come to the hall so that the Supreme Council can make objective and responsible decisions. I'll remind you that you and I have arranged for the Conciliation Council. Please, my friends, let's welcome the government and wish them victory in this fight of all our opponents. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have agreed that we will be the first to consider the draft decree on measures to protect Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity and to oppose the military aggression of the Russian Federation. This morning, four faction leaders replaced a new project in the form of a call by the Supreme Council to the President of Ukraine in connection with events in eastern Ukraine that actually covered the proposals made in the previous draft of the Order. And they also add some other important ones to strengthen our country's resilience. That is why, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal for us to consider this project, which was signed by four leaders of the deputy factions and groups regarding the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine in connection with events in eastern Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to take your seats. Colleagues, first let's put it in the order of the day and of course the authors will come out and inform. Dear colleagues, please. Alexander Rafatovich, help Sigal to vote properly. Please, Your Honor, sit on your posts and support the faction leaders' proposal to be included in the agenda of today's session and session accordingly the Supreme Council regulation, which is number 4087a. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of this important decision, please vote. [[11:08:31]] For 225 Dear colleagues, please don't go in the hall! Colleagues, let's sit down and vote normally. Please take your seats! Colleagues, well, it's embarrassing for the voters and citizens of Ukraine to see the undisciplined work of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council (register No. 4087a). Please, Alexander Ivanovich, also vote. Please vote. [[11:09:16]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support a reduced format of consideration of this Order. Please, Your Honor, for the summary of this matter, please vote. [[11:09:42]] For 219 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, for a report on the content of the draft decree, please give the floor to the national MP Sobolev Sergio Vladislavovich. Sergei Vladislavovich, I would just like to read the draft decree so that all MPs who haven't been able to read it can listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u33	It's given away, but I'll try to read it quickly. On June 7, 2014, the President of Ukraine was elected for election on May 25, 2014. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 17, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine is the Supreme Commander and exercises leadership in the area of national security and defence. In the eastern part of our country, the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, fighting continues increasingly, civilians and other military deaths are lost, and terrorists are resorting to large - scale military action. The escalation of this armed conflict requires an immediate and adequate response from the newly elected President of Ukraine and cannot be delayed for a moment. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, respecting the choice of the Ukrainian people and taking into account military action in the eastern regions of the country, stands ready to support the Ukrainian President's initiative to restore peace and territorial integrity. Parliament understands the level of challenges, the threats faced by the Ukrainian State and is so ready to consolidate to assist the President of Ukraine in overcoming external aggression, stabilizing the situation in eastern Ukraine and bringing peace back to every Ukrainian family. In view of the above, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to the President of Ukraine: In accordance with article 106, paragraphs 10 and 14, of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Constitution immediately identifies the candidates for the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Defence, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, who are key in the resolution of the military conflict, and submit an application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of such candidates. Issue a War State Order in Donetsk and Lugansk regions that will allow adequate action to be taken to end the military conflict. According to valid legislation for the period of war, head the bet of the Supreme Commander.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u34	Please be able to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u35	and ensure the establishment of peace in Ukraine. Provide with the power and resources of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the full overlap of the state border of Ukraine with the Russian Federation. Initiat consultations on the introduction of the visa regime with the Russian Federation. Ensure immediate cessation of military cooperation with the Russian Federation as an aggressor country. All Ukrainian specialists working on military and Russian Federation entities should be immediately withdrawn, and the contracts themselves were terminated, including contracts for the production of dual - purpose goods by Ukrainian factories. To develop and implement immediately a new military doctrine in Ukraine, including changes in the structure of state procurement in the country’s defence industry. In accordance with article 106, paragraphs 28, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Committee for the Coordination of Work on Migration from the Donetsk and Lugansk regions and persons residing in occupied territories and territories in which the state of war has been established should be established with the President of Ukraine. Organize an information centre at the bet of the High Commander to coordinate information policy in a state of war. In addition, the Supreme Council considers it necessary to immediately hear in Parliament, in the presence of the President of Ukraine, a report by the Head of the BSC and the management of the BSS Anti-Terrorism Centre on the situation in the anti-terrorist operation zone. For its part, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taking the initiative not to interrupt its work on vacation and to move into a special summer session. In particular, Parliament sets a schedule for its work: a week of plenary meetings, a week of district work, a week of committee work. Furthermore, if necessary by the initiative of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is to meet for an extraordinary meeting for 24 hours. In the name of the restoration of peace in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine declares the consolidation of all political factions and groups of parliament and guarantees full support for the initiatives of the President of Ukraine aimed at ending the military conflict in eastern Ukraine. Our assignment and our obligation to do our utmost together and to restore peace on our earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss whether we can make decisions? There's a discussion. Yes, please sign up for the discussion. The Black People's Deputies, the Strike faction, give the floor to the People's Deputy Heratchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, the President's peace plan is a priority of his work in his office, and of course Parliament must make every effort to support this President. But first, we suggest that we make changes to this reference. First, the President of Ukraine made a decision yesterday at the Security and Defence Council meeting regarding the immediate cessation of military cooperation with the Russian Federation. And maybe we don't have to duplicate it here, but this is a question of Parliament's debate. The other one. In fact, the decision to establish a resettlement centre at the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is equally made. And that's very important, because it's the Ministry of Internal Affairs, not the President of Ukraine today, who is taking care of this work. And we suggest that this item should be amended as follows: "In the Ministry of Internal Affairs, create a relocation centre from the ATO area that will coordinate all necessary work with relevant ministries and departments." Next, the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to hear not only a report from the head of the U.S.S.S.A., but primarily the Chief of General Staff, as well as the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Nazgwardia, the Minister of Social Affairs, who is today looking after the issues of very serious displaced persons to hear the whole problem, and the Minister of Health, because there are so many complaints that the hospitals in which our heroes are being treated today are not being provided with the necessary drugs. And these are all procedures their purchases are going on for a long, long time. So we suggest from our faction that we make such changes to this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, in order not to return to this issue immediately, the proposal for refugees, their care, is the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers to assign, because there is not only the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there is social policy, and there is regional development. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers. Is such an offer accepted? Roger that. Dear colleagues, do we consider voting as a whole? Please, we signed up for the performance. The word is given by Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u39	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! I want to address all of our colleagues, the members of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, don't you think it's time to think about the image of the Supreme Council and not just our calling with you, but any summoning? Because the propaganda that goes on in front of the Supreme Council is an ideology that is being carried out by people who want no peace in our country. This decision, which was prepared, firstly, by the ideology of the Fatherland faction and I'm surprised that not signed by the impact faction, is the most important thing that we're showing to society and to the President that there is a coalition that is now ready to meet the demands of the community and the Midan. It's the adoption of anti-corruption legislation, it's the adoption of anti-corruption legislation. The illustrations of their laws are the adoption of a new electoral law and those reforms that we have promised to join the European Union. I thank all coalition colleagues, we must work and deserve respect, not personally, but by understanding the return of respect to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u40	Please. Colleagues at the end of the line. National MP Mikhalchisin, please, from Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u41	Dear Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! The "Freedom" faction of the All-Ukrainian Union supports this decision in every way, viewing it as a necessary step to ensure that all the forces of our country are mobilized to resist Russian aggression. At the same time, we would like to make the following suggestions to its text. In the War State Department, we want to highlight the need for its deployment not only in Donetsk and Lugansk regions, but also in the area of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, because this occupied territory is only temporarily to be returned in the course of the liberation operation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the near future after the end of secessionism in the East. The faction also considers it necessary to supplement the border crossing of Ukraine with the Russian Federation, not only through the resources of the Ministry of Defence, but also with the assistance of the Ministry of State, the Ministry of State, and the State Border Service. I also consider it necessary to complete the territorial sign not only of Donetsk and Lugansk regions but also of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And finally, about the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the summer. In sharing the idea of working without any vacations, I think it is necessary to complement the idea of convening plenary meetings, if necessary, not only on the initiative of the President of Ukraine, but also on the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine if necessary. Thank you. Please support the revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the word is given to the People's Deputy Sukhoma, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I ask the bill's author to listen to the proposals of the MP's Economic Development Group. We certainly support the draft decision, but there are two observations. First. The events in the East have shown the shortcomings of the Ukrainian military-industrial complex, so our project must contain the phrase that "with a view to increasing production volumes, the Ukrainian production of the military-industrial complex should recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine immediately resume the work of the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine". The other one. Those who work in the military-industrial complex have to be freed from mobilization because we have an extremely important task: to increase the volume of industrial products that can work in defence in a short time. In the framework of a public defence order. Colleagues, we have to write, "Kabmin to approve the state defense order." He just doesn't exist today, and there's no government program on working with refugees. There must be a government program with specific resource guidelines for such people, for employment, and for training. And one more thing. In the Decision Project, I propose. The term "double-dealing goods" is not correctly defined. To ban military appointments, because dual assignments are goods sent through Russia, for example, to India, to Pakistan, to China. Finally, Roschen confetti can also be dual-purpose goods, if they're used by military personnel, let's say in the Russian army. Such inaccuracies must therefore be taken into account. I'm talking to Sergei Vladislavovich: the State Defense Order, the Military Industrial Complex and the State Refugee Work Program, and exclusively dual-purpose goods, and for military supplies contracts can be broken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u44	Please. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Rudzkowski, the proposal for a text.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u45	Dear National Deputies! Three months ago, I proposed the introduction of a state of emergency in eastern Ukraine. And then today, if we did that, we wouldn't be discussing the introduction of military status on Donbas. That's the first one. The other one. It's in the text. I'm going to propose to the text, if we're going to ask the question and we want to put the order in the east, we need to, we want to do it or we don't want to do it, add the option "Ensure additional mobilization." So the Secretary of Defense doesn't say I don't have any guys, no people to rotate. The second question. In the same text, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will develop a mechanism to compensate citizens of Ukraine who live in the ATO zone and in the area of military operations. And the last. If we are now, your honors, let us make a mistake and write down Crimea here, this is a declaration of war by the Russian Federation. You should have done it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! That's what I had to do when I was coming back from Crimea saying, "Enter a state of emergency, further deploy troops and establish a constitutional system." Then they stood watching us take the Crimea, and now you want to start a war. Peace is needed for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u48	Please, the people's representative of Labunska. It's just about the proposal, your honor, it's not about the proposal for the content of the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u49	Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished colleagues. I ask you to include in the text of the decision to create, whether at the Ministry of Health, or to give an order to the Cabinet of Ministers, we have an unresolved question, we have a person who needs medication that simply threatens life, it's insulin, it's hemophilia, it's phenylcanaturia and a lot of other things. You know that tenders are conducted by local budgets and today the treasury is stopped, no one is doing that, more than that, look at how many people, we still don't have a state health chief. You know how many military, as far as mobilization goes, Ukrvakcin refuses to deliver any medicine to Lugansk, the Donetsk region, is a vaccine. I don't understand why we still haven't considered the Musi release order, he's done all the work in the MoH, I don't know if Bacheva's going to be on the committee tomorrow. But I'm asking you to give the Cabinet of Ministers a mandate to address this issue, to provide medicine to the people of these regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u50	Dear colleagues. I only ask that we rule, I remind you, this is a call to the President and what I have proposed to the people's deputies of Labunsk, we can, in the form of an order to the Cabinet of Ministers now form a protocol commission and give such an order, but it is a determination that we do not break the text and break it. Please, Oleg Easy on the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Valentinov, distinguished colleagues. I propose, we have a speech called, referring the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine in connection with the events in the east of Ukraine, I propose instead of the word "event" to write: "the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine in connection with the military aggression in the east of Ukraine", and the last paragraph of the last sentence, after the words "to end the military conflict in the east of Ukraine" I propose to add: "protecting territorial integrity and the state sovereignty of Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u52	Thank you. Only, Oleg Valeriyovich, the suggestion: "in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation in the east of Ukraine," is there no objection? Please, People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u53	I want us all to pay attention to the incredible cynicism with which we approach this document. What is the special mode of operation of the Supreme Council in the summer?Oh, my God! The milkmaid, the miner, the metallurgy, the ordinary Ukrainian citizens of the summer go to special treatment? I registered a draft decree that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should work as usual. Let's take one day off in the summer and that's it. I demand, our faction requires us to vote on this decision and remove this nonsense from the draft of our address.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u54	Please, the People's Deputy Chechetov. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u55	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday there was a meeting of the LLDC, which clearly identified and approved a list of steps to be taken to localize the eastern military conflict in order to preserve Ukraine's territorial integrity, in order to strengthen our borders. There was no question of the introduction of a military situation in the PNDP! I'm asking you not to take decisions against the PNB! Perhaps people are not dumber and more informed, including the position of the President. So you don't have to jump out here before the election and show us how much we love the country! There are competent people who met for four hours yesterday and probably developed an algorithm that allows for the localization of the conflict using the resources of all peaceful methods. We categorically oppose taking a decision against the decision of the MPB to impose a military situation in the East! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u56	Please, the People’s Deputy of God’s Word, the offer. And I will definitely give Irina Heratchenko. Calm down, colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! The first thing I want to say is that this very decision, which is given by BUT and Freedom, is, I'm sorry, "The Fatherland," "Freedom" and the Kinach group, raises doubts. Because all of this could have been done when Mr. Turkinov was acting as commander - in - charge of Ukraine. So today we are trying to force the President to act emotionally, not professionally. So first of all, I'd like you to introduce where "to see an order for the establishment of a military state" is to change to "to be determined as to the purpose of the establishment of a military state." It's a huge job. And I want to tell you that the experience of all countries that fought terrorism inside countries proves that the introduction of military status leads to an increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u58	Thank you. Please give me half a minute. You can finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u59	Thank you. The unthinkable introduction of the military has always resulted in an extraordinary slaughter, a guerrilla war. And that can make things worse. So we have to let the experts determine that. It's different. A function that is prescribed in accordance with article 106, paragraph 28, of the Constitution to create a committee with the President of Ukraine to coordinate work on migration issues. This committee should be created with the higher executive authority, not with the President. That's why I'm asking you to bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u60	This proposal has already been hit, and we support it. Thank you. Give it another half minute to Inna Hermanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u61	Last offer. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will decide on the resignation of the Minister of Interior and the appointment of a new Minister of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u62	Please, Irina Heratchenko, turn on the microphone. Colleagues, Irina Heratchenko had a conversation with the President, and she wants to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, today the President of Ukraine has issued an Order on the appointment of the President-in-Office of Ukraine for the implementation of his peace plan in the ATO zone. I am appointed by the President of Ukraine as this authorized person. And it's obvious that without the support of the entire session room, I can't handle these important functions, where, first of all, there's obviously a message of the President's position on his peace plan, as well as a compromise on this issue in this session room with the entire session hall. And that's why I'm now addressing all 450 colleagues in support of this issue. Because it's obviously a number one job for the President, for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And given what a serious discussion has now taken place in this session room regarding this determination, how many important and correct proposals have been made as to what needs to be changed here, considering that yesterday was the first meeting of the Security and Defence Council of the newly elected President.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u64	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u65	With all the new members of the Security and Defence Council on the issue of peaceful settlement in the zone today, East and anti-terror operation. I'm going to allow myself to propose in the session room and ask that you support this proposal to consult the leaders of factions with the President of Ukraine about this being a joint decision and that we all support it. Because someone has not heard something, someone has not heard something to make it a decision that will really contribute to the President's peace plan, which has assumed a high responsibility to bring peace to this area. And we realize that this is a very difficult task. Moreover, I propose in the first paragraph that the staff assignments be equally proposed that the President should be determined in the same way as the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Because so far we have only the Attorney General. We see that there are changes to each point. So our proposal, please, we discussed it, we're making changes. The factions' leaders, the President, we have finally the President, set up for dialogue not only for faction leaders, but for the entire session room to meet with the MPs. They're going to meet, bring this document together, and we're going to vote it out this week at the end. Thank you. Please support this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I see many hands yet. Come on, we need to get to the bottom of this. Please, dear fellows. Come on, Alexander Mirny, and let's take the risk we'll determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u67	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. If you want to put a stop to this, start fooling her. That's what we're seeing right now. Let's figure it out eventually. The decision is very clear. And any attempt at this moment to postpone the vote for then, for agreement, to something else. Excuse me, do you think the Supreme Council should agree? She made a joint decision. So let's vote and show our attitude towards the situation in Ukraine right now. And we will not wait for those who will nod, those who will not allow. If the regions do not support this decision, if they are responsible for the continued undeclared war, let them not vote! If the Communists don't want to vote, don't vote! If anyone has doubts as to whether it is necessary or not, let them not vote! And let the people see all those who are really in this Supreme Council! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I am addressing the Supreme Council. Please, let's take a risk under discussion, everyone had the opportunity to discuss this issue, to make their proposals. What I'm asking is that, dear colleagues, that we still have in the coalition, anyway, I'm not talking about opposition, there's unity in the matter. I'm asking the faction leaders. Take it easy. Faction leaders, we have a break at 12 o'clock to work on taking into account the proposals that have been made, your honor's colleagues, so that we don't break each other. And out of voice, when I start putting these proposals into the text. We're going to get a text that won't work and it won't be understood. So I'm asking you, when we need to hold a consultation with the President, we're going to have this opportunity during this break. And after the break, I'd like to bring it in. The reporter goes to the rostrum, tells you what adjustments are included. After consulting the faction leaders, we accept the document as a whole. No objections? There's no objection. I ask the faction leaders to align the text during the break with the proposals that have been announced. Thank you. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, on the basis of which there is no objection, no vote? There's no objection on the ground, so we can work on it during the break? Okay. On the ground, just on the ground. Not in general, but on the ground. Please, Your Honor, here's the deal. Take the project as a basis, and during the break, work on taking into account the proposals that were being made here, so that the Supreme Council could be defined as a whole. Please, Your Honor, vote in favour of Project 4087 as a basis. Please vote. First reading, that's right. [[11:38:05]] For 218. The decision is not taken. By factions, please 65 - Fatherland, 1 - Region, 31 - Impact, Economic Development - 27, 30 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 29. Dear colleagues, I suggest we work on it, and in general, we will work on it. We have now seen that the decision is practically supported, but during the vote let us not break the hall. In general, we're going to take into account all the suggestions that were made here, but in any case, most of them. I'd like to ask the factions to rework the project during the break. Dear colleagues, I am now addressing the session room, all the distinguished national MPs. Once again, during the Conciliation Board, we have a huge number of suggestions for inclusion and immediate consideration of issues. For immediate consideration, there is a need for a committee to be defined, but with regard to inclusion, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal for about 30 legislative acts to be placed in the agenda. I have an offer, my dear colleagues, let's put all these projects together in the agenda and we'll save a huge amount of time for the Supreme Council so that we can make a decision in general. I'm going to remind you that this is a day-to-day inclusion -- it's not the answer to the question of support as a whole or in the first reading. Please, dear fellows, can we set aside time to save time? We can't. Well, I see it won't be supported by the hall. Then we'll lose time, another hour just to name each of these projects. Try it? Fellows, let's give it a try, but I can see in the mood that the hall won't support it. Please, fellow Members, we have a rule to determine: either accept the package or consider each one separately. I'm asking you, your honor, to try, I don't think it's going to get any worse than that. I call draft laws: 4078a, 4084a, 4048a, 4986, 4987, 4987-1, 4930, 4991, 4967, 4033a, 4984, 4906, 4906-1, 2, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a-1, 4067-3, 4, 5, 4914, 4448 (do not diverge, fellows), 4233, 4781, 4082a, 4523, 4046a, 4844, 4743, 4866, 4884, 4998, 4047a, 4026a, 4607, 4566, 4561-1, 4032a and 4032a (4032a) and 4973a. Dear colleagues! I ask that we save time to discuss laws, not to include them in the agenda. When we are determined in general, everyone can deny any law. Now, honourable colleagues, save time and concentrate our efforts precisely in discussing the agenda when it comes to the adoption of laws in the first, on the basis or in general. Please, Your Honor, support the bill's bill announced by the chairman to include it in the agenda of today's session, not today's session, but the sessions. Do you understand the offer? Got it. Please make up your mind, please vote. [[11:42:20]] For-119 The offer is not supported. The factions, please. Parenthood is 68.0 - regions, 1 - Impact, 1 - Economic Development, 1 - Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 - Freedom, the Company is 0.13 - non-fractional. Dear colleagues! Then we will go through, we will spend time, we will work in accordance with the Rules by considering the inclusion of each law. And unfortunately, again in the south, we're going to lose it just to discuss the name of the laws instead of their content. Dear colleagues! The proposal to include the draft Law 4078a in the agenda is a draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2014 (for the protection of the State). I would like to ask the honourable colleagues to sit on their jobs and support this proposal from the government. Let me remind you, these changes are about strengthening the state's defence. Please support, Your Honor, 4078a will be included in the order of the day. Please vote. [[11:43:41]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, the next question of 4084a is the draft Act amending article 10 on the status of war veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Please. Please support the social protection of our military personnel. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:44:18]] For 232 Decision taken. The next question is the draft Decision on the use of measures to strengthen the level of protection of the state border. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important question. Please support this draft decision for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:44:47]] For 229 Decision taken. The next question is the proposal to include a day-to-day project, registration number 4986. This is a draft of the Law on State Control in the Safety and Quality of Food and Feed, Animal Welfare. Agrarian question, dear colleagues, please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda. For the welfare of the animals, please. [[11:45:25]] For 215 The decision is not taken. Animals don't get lucky. Yes. Is that a question? That's the question. Please, National Deputy Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! I point out that within a week, 10 days, the European Commission is coming to Ukraine to verify the compliance of European food safety standards that we are preparing to open the border to export to our industries. Without the adoption of these two government bills, which are prepared for the European Union's demand, to conform to the standards, we will not export our own products with you. I'm asking you to immediately include these bills to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I understand, the offer is to go back to that question and support it. Catherine Vasilovna, please, one minute, so that you don't go out on the rostrum again, I understand, on the same question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I really support Alexander Volodymyr Kugel. But the following law, which she spoke of, was the identification and registration of animals. Governmental. A group of national deputies and experts worked on an alternative bill that takes all the questions into account better and brings them all closer to reality. They will do it. And this law is somewhat off-limits, from real situations. So I'd like you and the government to include the MP (4987-1), together.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Please sit down so that you can support your offer. Dear colleagues, taking into account the information that we have received, that may be an incorrect name for animal welfare, which is the quality of our citizens' nutrition, first and foremost. And this is the quality of the food and the quality of the food, and it affects the final product. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the request to support the inclusion in the agenda of these three projects, as discussed by Catherine Vaschuk and Alexander Kugel, 4986, 4987, and 4987-1. Please, Your Honor, support their inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:48:22]] For 226 At the border, dear colleagues, I ask you to take more responsibility for your duties. Decision taken. I'll remind you, it's 226 people's deputies. The next question, colleagues, is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to clarify tax obligations on the income of enterprises and the value added tax when applying tax compromises. It's a very important question, it's about organizing our businesses. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of Project 4930 in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[11:49:15.]] For 256 Decision taken. The following question, colleagues (4991), is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Single National Demographic Register and documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status. Please, Your Honor, support the government project (4991) is a matter of European integration and visa-free regime. Please support me. [[11:49:53]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, Party of Regions – 28, Impact – 28, 32 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 29, Freedom – 0, Company – 0, non-fractional – 36. On this issue, please, the head of the Valérie Paccan profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u73	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, you and I have completed the first phase of visa-free regime. Now we've moved to phase two, which is a series of laws, regulations, regulations that Ukraine has to implement in order for us to have a simplified visa-free regime. This bill applies specifically to the inclusion in a single demographic register: fingerprints and so on. It is the standards that will be regulated. I'm asking you to put again and make sure that this bill is included in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u74	I'm asking the representative of the Freedom faction, Alexander Mirny, because the faction didn't vote in favour of this project, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u75	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The thing is, we didn't support some of the positions that are in this bill. And we want to emphasize what if. We are now ready to vote in favour of putting it into the agenda, but passing into the private hands of many things that should only be on state control, in our view, will lead to a situation that is today in Britain, where people of seven, eight years later, cannot get foreign passports and are actually tied to the country. And there's already thousands of protests going on there. Therefore, they are willing to support, but they are very careful to consider even the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, taking into account the position declared by the People's MP of Peace, I ask that we come back and support the inclusion of this project, which we will certainly need to work on before the vote in general, taking into account the remarks made by the honourable National MP. And now I'm asking you to put it in the agenda. Let me remind you, this is a bill (registration number 4991) -- a question related to the visa-free regime for our citizens. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[11:52:32]] For 263 Decision taken. I thank the MPs who are moving our Ukraine into visa-free regimes for our citizens. Next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, it's not a comeback. It's a day-to-day inclusion. The inclusion in the agenda does not require a return. Dear colleagues, let's work on the Rules. Next question, dear colleagues. 4967 is a draft Act amending the Employment Act (to optimize the social protection budget). Please, Your Honor, the important question is the fight against unemployment. Is that a question? Turn on the microphone for the People’s Deputy Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! The government is new, and the working methods are old and tight. Under the beautiful and beautiful name of trying to break the law that we adopted in the first reading with you. A young person who is not in the Employment Center but who has completed a university is entitled to the first job. And the employer needs to be compensated as well as anyone who creates jobs. This bill removes this problem and does everything the way it used to: get into the Employment Center, walk away, and then you might get a lead. And it was already directed to a particular factory or a learning plant. He's finished, he's coming to a new job that costs money. So I propose that this bill be rejected and not included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we can decide how to vote. I take the view that the draft law (registration number 4967) is in order. I'd like you to identify your national MPs. Please vote. [[11:54:34]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Next question, dear colleagues. 4033a is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine (to improve the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine). Please, dear fellows. This is an important question, please support. 4033a. Please identify your esteemed colleagues for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Dear colleagues, let us be more active. [[11:55:07]] For 179. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 65, Regions – 0.28 – Impact, Economic Development – 4, "North European Ukraine" – 27, "Freedom" – 34.0 – Company, non-fractional – 21. Next question, dear colleagues. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 19 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine (concerning decisions made by local authorities). Please, Your Honor, please determine whether to include this project in the agenda of the day. 4984. Please vote. [[11:55:53]] For 227, sir. Decision taken. Next question. Dear colleagues. Draft Law on Elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Here are three drafts of the Law as alternatives, number 4906, 4906-1, 4906-2. As well as the following draft of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 4010a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 41a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a, 40a. The proposal to include all these laws in the order of the day session. Please vote. [[11:56:42]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 66 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 1, 31 – Impact, Economic Development – 1, Sovereign European Ukraine – 6, Freedom – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 21. Turn on the microphone for the MP Rudzkowski. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u79	The honourable National Deputies, Bill number one in this chapter, prepared by me and Mr. Klukkowski in accordance with all the rules and recommendations of the Venice Commission, are supported by the European Community, which proposes that the Supreme Council of Deputies be selected for open regional party lists. In order to prevent more party leaders from sending massagers, drivers, secretaries, and forming people in the regions of the Supreme Council. By the way, now people have come to the Supreme Council demanding the adoption of legislation with open regional party lists. The election barrier was reduced to three, limited. One election environment for access to the media has been organized for all. If we re-adopt another system, how.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u80	National deputy Qaeda on this matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u81	Thank you! Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! You know, today, yesterday and the day before, and for many days, probably no one gets tired of speaking out for having to reload parliament, dissolve, choose a new one. Everyone's acting in favor. And actually, this vote on these bills is a litmus paper that goes "for," who goes "against" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for" and who goes "for". Mr. Head! We just voted in a bag, didn't we? Five laws. I now propose to break three election laws separately and two for the Electoral Code separately. So please put it to the vote again. And once again, I call upon all the deputies to support the inclusion in the agenda of our session, in fact, of these bills, which primarily require Ukrainian society to relaunch this Parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u82	Thank you. National deputy Stoyan, distinguished colleagues and let's take the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! When the president of Ukraine was elected, it was said that the first round should be chosen, for order in the state should be made immediately. The only body that can support the president today, his economic programs, his social programs, is the Parliament of the Supreme Council. The Parliament of the Supreme Council has a normal coalition; it votes in favour of the proposals made by the President. What do those who propose changes of laws want? They want the election. If you want to re-election, that means the state won't work for 3-4 months. If you're not supposed to be in Parliament like this, write your statements and don't work, it's the first time. Secondly, dear colleagues, let's now define, if we go to the elections, vote, and then change the laws. Now we're wasting time to adopt important socio-economic laws, play some changes before the elections. Let's vote. Put to the vote, who's in the election? If we go, then we change the laws, and if we don't go, then we work on the laws, because people need decisions to protect their peace in the country, social protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u84	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, we have, I see, so many hands in Parliament raised from this issue. I would suggest that we take a break, let's go through this chapter on inclusion in the agenda, then take a half hour break. No objections? There's no objection. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I want to say about electoral legislation, electoral legislation needs to be improved. These are objective realities. And there's no correlation since the election. This is a separate question from which the Supreme Council should determine. Of course, the main task now is to protect the country. Complete the anti-terror operation and decide on Parliament for its future. This is a question that is certainly being asked by our citizens. And the answer to that question will have to be given. We're not hiding from this, dear colleagues. But with regard to electoral legislation, I wouldn't hold back my consideration of the problem. So, I'll see all hands, dear friends, come on. The proposal was to make separate changes to electoral legislation, the election of the Supreme Council deputies, and the election codes. Yeah? Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on this issue. Please. But from the place, Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't waste your time. Now I have 10 more men holding hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u85	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! What the law needs to be done is clear. But let's do it this way. Each proposal shall be voted on separately. And let the author briefly tell you what the positions are there. Because now there's a desire under this social mood to push the country under the party again. We have 205 political parties registered. If you look at what's going to be on election ballots in some laws, you'll see there's a whole country needs to be treated. Therefore, clear electoral legislation must be adopted. I'm the author of a bill. It offers 450 districts, the right exclusively for parties to put candidates in the MPs. Let's vote, let's make a decision. We get people closer, we get voters closer, we get MPs closer to people. And let's stop these political games.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please. Please calm down, colleagues, we're not discussing this right now. I'll remind you that according to the rules, if there are alternative bills, alternative bills, they are discussed together. We can't put one in, and the other we can't put into the agenda. That's a rule requirement. That's why it's either a draft law that regulates the same issue or it's not adopted. Because every law, in the case of inclusion in the agenda, you, your honourable colleagues, can express your position during their deliberations when discussing the content of these laws. And now we're putting it into the agenda. Once again, I'm putting the vote, my esteemed colleagues, and I'm dividing it into two positions. The first is projects 4906, 4906-1, 4906-2. They refer to the election laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, determine how to get into the agenda. Please vote. [[12:04:15]] For-167 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 68, Regions – 1.34 – Impact, 2 – Economic Development, 3 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 24. Please, dear colleagues, the second block related to the election codes of Ukraine. 4010a, 4010a-1. Draft electoral codes for Ukraine. Please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:04:56]] For 196 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 67, Regions – 1, 34 – Impact, Economic Development – 5, 26 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 35.0 – Company, non-fractional – 28. Dear colleagues, I can reassure many of the national MPs. We're not discussing this, colleagues. We have laws that are already included in the agenda, in particular the law of the National Deputy Knazević, which regulates all these issues, we can consider it without any problems. That's why we don't have a warning on how to look at electoral legislation. Next question, colleagues, 4667, 4667-3, 4667-4, 4667-5. It is a draft of the Law on the Elimination of the Negative Effects and the Non - Persecution and Punishment of Those What Happened During Peace Meetings. These are the projects of the People's Deputy Dobkin, the People's Deputy of Saints, the People's Deputy of Simonnka. I'd like to ask you, your honor, to see if you can get these projects into the agenda. Please vote. [[12:06:14]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Next question, dear colleagues. Project registration number 4914. It's a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Citizens' Participation in Public Order and State Border. Please, Your Honor, support the important issue of the protection of the state border. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please, dear fellows. Vote. [[12:06:50]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 67 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 2, Impact – 33, 30 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional 24. Dear colleagues, let's consult again. Shall we work out the inclusion in the agenda and take a break or take a break? For a break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, once again when we vote, we vote with respectable colleagues, yes, rather than making the appearance that we vote. So I'm asking the MPs to support their proposals for work on a continuous basis on these issues, after this half-hour break. But we have a lot more. All right, colleagues, we don't support the offer that it was. As far as the matter is concerned. Now for about an hour, we will have to consider these questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Break? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, come on. I see that just a lot of MPs aren't holding up, they're going to have lunch because they don't have the strength to push the button. There's a break for half an hour, up to 12 hours 40 minutes. I ask the faction leaders to finalize the draft ruling that we discussed at the beginning of our meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to sit on your desks and make three announcements that the Supreme Council is still working and that all deputies should not be working in the buffet, but in the session room. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u88	It's a hit question, not to me. Dear colleagues, adverts, please listen. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Ilyashenko Vitalia Volodymyrovich into the political party's political faction. Next announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the Proclamation of the parliamentary faction of the political party "ADA" of 7 June 2014, I report the election of the head of the MP faction of the political party "ADA" by Kovalczuk Vitaliy Anatoliyovich, and the election of the deputy head of the political party "AUD" by Pinzenic Viktor Mihajlovich. Welcome to our high-ranking colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I ask the secretariat once again to make an announcement that Parliament has begun its work and that all deputies are invited to the Chamber of Deputies. Colleagues, I just want to warn you right now that we're going to consider the issue and we're not going to go back to their re-examination and re-voting. Because Ukraine needs to be held accountable for its activity and inactivity. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the issues that are proposed by national deputies, MPs and factions to be included in the agenda of the day session. Now I'm asking that we define ourselves from the draft Law amending the City Activities Regulation Act. This is the registration number for Project 4448. Once again, dear colleagues, a bill amending the City Activities Regulation Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please determine whether this bill is to be incorporated into the agenda of Act 4448. Please vote. [[12:45:09]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Next question. The draft decree marking the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Metropolitan of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church of Andrey Sheptick. Dear colleagues, I understand the discipline is not in Parliament, so what are you going to do? I'm calling on the heads of the factions of the MPs and groups to ensure that people's deputies are present to make decisions. Next question. Dear colleagues, they asked for a final review of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts (for the activities of the Ukrainian National Guard) (registration number 4781). Dear colleagues, I ask you to identify the national MPs on this matter as regards the inclusion of him in the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[12:46:38]] For-147 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 43 – Fatherland, Region Party – 0.15 – Impact, 24 – Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine – 18.31 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 16. Next question. The bill on the application of administrative amnesty to persons involved in hostilities in eastern Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, registration number for Project 4082a. Please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:47:23]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 43 – "The Fatherland", 0 – "Freedom" – 17.0 – "Economic development", 10 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 32 – "Freedom", The Company – 0.15 – non-fractional. Next question, draft Decision on the cessation of membership and participation of Ukraine in the Commonwealth of Independent States (Registration No. 4523). Please, colleagues, decide to include this project in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[12:48:10]] For 134 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 46 – "Paternity", 1 – regions, "BRA" – 20, 7 – "Economic development", 13 – "Sovereign Ukraine", "Freedom" – 32 – Company – 0, non-fractional – 15. Next question, colleagues, draft Supreme Council Statement on the oppression and non-compliance of Ukrainians in Russia and urgent measures to satisfy the national cultural and linguistic needs of foreign Ukrainians (registration number 4046a). [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, National Deputy Laszko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm asking you to support the draft decree that I registered on supporting Ukrainians in Russia and taking immediate action to meet their national cultural needs. Maybe someone doesn't know, there are 10 million Ukrainians living in Russia. There is no Ukrainian-speaking school in Russia, there is no Ukrainian-language publication funded by the state budget. For comparison, in Ukraine, where Russian - speaking people seem to be under pressure. We have over 1.5 thousand Russian-speaking schools, we have 80-90 percent Russian-speaking information space. So I'm asking the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the inclusion of a daily project statement in order to support Ukrainians, by the way, not just in Russia, but Ukrainians around the world. And this vote is going to be a test for our support of our brothers in blood, Ukrainians. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u90	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this project in the agenda of the session. Is that a question? Please, Alexander Mirny.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u91	Alexander Valentinovich. Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This is a huge request to you: you are a wise person and you are conducting a very proper meeting, I ask you, let's still separate those issues that cannot be broken down by non-voting in order -- about getting into the agenda. Either once or diagonally, we have to ask these questions. Because it is clear that there are very resonant laws and regulations that can only be voted when all the people are in the room. Because Freedom, it's in place, other parties, for example, aren't in place, but they're not voting for a neighbor. And it's clear that there are no votes. Because coalitions like this, we see it's absolutely situational. We lose this, then we can't go back to voting on these important, most important bills that you've given us that are supported by the coalition, but are arithmetically lacking in votes. I ask you very much: Let us simply out of respect and appeal to your wisdom.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Yavorowski, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u93	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, I think in this discussion that we should either dissolve Parliament or not dissolve Parliament even today's excrement is an impressive argument that such a parliament that we have today does not need Ukraine. It's essentially anti-Ukrainian. Well, you see, so many questions today are in order of the day about protection, about the solution to the fate of the Ukrainian East. And we don't have people in the room. And those who do are simply not voting for it. How can we not vote for a very important question? Millions of Ukrainians, who live in Russia, have already been told, have no schools, have no theatre, have no national newspaper to speak in Ukrainian. Why do we not have the right to defend ourselves? You see, the road makes up situations to sort of protect the Russians, and we have this naked truth: these Ukrainians who are there deprived of any nationals.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u94	Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u95	In fact, the issue of the decision - making process in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has a very simple solution. Now in the Supreme Council Hall, in the towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there's my assistant in the T-shirt, which says, "Kapplin's Law and Strike: Five days of absence during the session -- and we're taking a mandate from the People's Deputies." Come forward and sign this law, because we need 150 signatures to make changes to the Constitution. In case we collect signatures, we're going to accept these changes in a short time, and we're going to have a fully-fledged Hall of Representatives of the Supreme Council that will work. Simple Ukrainian citizens, after spending an hour in work, throw their employer out on the street, and you, assholes, sit here and don't go to work!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u96	Colleagues, please! National MP Viacheslav Kirilenko on this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u97	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Well, first of all, people all over the country, and who are standing, including under Parliament, are expecting two things from us today. First. After all, to approve the President's appeal, where it is clear that Parliament's position on the establishment or non-implementation of the state of war is fixed. Since discussions have arisen, we need to get back to this issue. In general, I believe that the President will have a strong argument, including outside, if Parliament makes a clear statement in favour of the introduction of martial law in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's a plus in the President's daily actions. And the second question, the Elections and Elections Act is Parliament, and it can't leave the agenda today. And in order to vote, call the deputies into the hall, you have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we have in principle spoken out of many questions, and I ask you, let's be determined. We've just discussed with you the issues of the oppression and violation of the rights of Ukrainians in Russia, and the urgent measures to satisfy the national and cultural and linguistic needs of Ukrainians abroad. May we vote, Your Honor? Come on, I'm asking you to support the inclusion of this draft ruling into the agenda. Please, you can put it again, it's an inclusion. Vote please, Your Honor. [[12:55:51]] For-183 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 57 - Fatherland, 0 - Party of Regions, Impact - 26, 21 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 23, 33 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 23. Please, one minute, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u99	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Honorable national MPs, and many of those who didn't vote are not honorable. I want to remind you that Putin occupied and seized our Crimea under the protection of Russian-speaking Ukrainian citizens in Crimea, who seem to be in danger, even though they were not actually in danger. I ask, what is this Ukrainian Parliament that is unable to support Ukrainians who are unable to protect their citizens' rights abroad?Oh, my God! We've got land, Russia's sending terrorists at us, Russia's killing Ukrainian people, and you're not voting for Ukrainians in Russia to get the right to teach their children in their own language, read newspapers in their own language, watch TV in their own language. It's the Ukrainian Parliament!? No, it's a disgrace, not the Ukrainian Parliament! So when you get out of here on the pitchforks, don't ask me what you're carrying. Because you don't understand. Keep your mouth shut, you bastards! Because you're living in a war and you have to protect the country and you're betraying it. I ask you one more question for the vote. And publish a list of traitors who don't vote in favour of Ukrainians around the world. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u100	Please use purely parliamentary language, honorary colleagues, during speeches by national MPs. Can we vote the question again? We can. Please, colleagues, please take your seats, please don't leave the halls, your colleagues, we're working. Let us once again try to support the draft Law on Oppression and Deprivation of the Rights of Ukrainians in Russia (4046a). Your Honor, if you'd like to support the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[12:58:14]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I hope we're still going to touch that question, by factions, please. 60 - Fatherland, region - 1, 32 - Impact, 26 - Economic Development, Sovereign European Ukraine - 30, 34 - Freedom, Company - 0, non-fractional - 24. The next question, my fellow respects, is the draft Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Please have a 4743 registration number. Please turn on Alexandra Kugel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u101	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! Dear colleagues! The bill has already been considered by the committee, the drafters of the bill are all deputies from all factions, members of the Committee of Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. I want to tell you that there have been 20 public hearings. It is practical to note that the second reading is already under the law. It envisions a 10 - point reduction in licenses. This is an updated bill that reduces corruption and bureaucracy when you get and control your license. Please enter into the agenda. He is considered and supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, please, Project 4743. The draft Law on Licensing Certain Economic Activities, taking into account the information that Alexander Kugel, head of the committee, provided. Support this project. Please vote, Your Honor, for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:00:12]] For 243 Decision taken. Do you see the success of Alexander Volodymyrna’s performance? Next question. The factions, please. Parenthood – 59, Regions – 3, 31 – Impact, Economic Development – 29, 31 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 34 – Freedom, 21 – non-fractional 35. The next law. Alexander Volodymyrna also wants to convince her colleagues to support her. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u103	I went to the rostrum to be seen by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. I want to report that after this bill I personally spoke to the Minister of Finance. He said that he had just been misinformed. In that way, he would support him. Note, dear colleagues, the information provided by the Employers’ Council. In that year, 3 billion entrepreneurs were fined. The cost of one check is 16,000 dollars, and the return is 80. What is the point of this bill? Small business can never work without paying a single tax, we don't tax them, they have a lot of debt on the sole social contribution. We can't take that debt away. We ask for fines, pennies, and this debt, which is to give restructuring so that they can work. Who does not now vote, remember that young woman who jumped out of the tax box three weeks ago when she was a lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u104	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u105	One hundred and fifty thousand fines. Please feel sorry for them, let them start working in such a difficult economic state. Think about how you cheated on pennies and fines, and even debt, to great monopolies. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, let me remind you, this is about the inclusion of this project, the registration number of which is 4866, in the agenda. Let me remind you, this is the Law on the Use of Measures to Create a Mutual Understanding between Business and the State, by Writing Off Debt and Paying Pennies, fines, etc. Dear colleagues, please determine how to vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:02:55]] For 219 Dear colleagues, do you have any more suggestions? Let's not all get there, I see colleagues coming in. Let's try to vote again. Please re-vote the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 4866. Please make up your mind. [[13:03:30]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 61, Regions – 23, 4 – Impact, 29 – Economic Development, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, Freedom – 34, 0 – Company, non-fractional – 39. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles of State Control (Control) in the Field of Economic Activity (as regards the limitation of the number of checks), registration number 4884. People's deputies please identify themselves. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[13:04:21]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is very important, it concerns the draft law on the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, internally displaced persons. Honorary colleagues refer to citizens who are forced by terrorist activities in the area of conducting an antiterrorist operation to leave their homes, and they certainly need help. Dear colleagues, please all, regardless of political views, this applies to our citizens with regard to their social protection. Dear colleagues, 4998. Please support the inclusion of this law in the order of the day. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[13:05:22]] For 253 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, for making the decisions, for making the decisions. Just give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, please listen. They're people who don't support, they just don't have the will and the heart and the understanding and why they're doing it. What is a penny and a fine to pay the only social contribution? These are terrible bills that people today cannot pay their current payments. This bill provides for the write-off of the fines of a penny, the restructuring of the payment they owe, provided the current payments are paid. So we open up the thrombo and they can work and fill the budget. I pray to God, spare the youngest! It's a mini and small business, it's a self-employed person. I'm asking you to vote for these people under all the cameras right now! Give them a chance to work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, can we turn to this question? We can go back, I can see and Alexander Mirny supports this idea. Please, Your Honor, let's do Project 4866. Colleagues, 4866 please support the inclusion in the agenda. As for the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[13:07:10]] For 231 Decision taken. The factions. 61 – Fatherland, Party of Regions – 29.6 – Impact, 29 – Economic Development, 30 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 41. Dear colleagues, now, now. In the end, we will return, now, dear colleagues, I beg of you. 4047a. Guys, we don't have much left. There's an offer to go back to some questions, we'll come back. Draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine" (as regards the legislative definition of the legal status of the amount of the temporarily occupied territory and the inclusion of a category of natural resources and objects of architectural, historical and cultural heritage in the territory). The difficult question, your honors, let's define, but perhaps it's relevant. 4047a. Please identify yourself for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[13:08:23]] For 211 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 60 – "The Fatherland", "The Party of Regions" – 2, "The Strike" – 30, 29 – "The Economic Development", 28 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", The Company – 0, non-fractional – 27. The next question, dear colleagues, is we're already finishing this block. Registration No. 4026a is a draft decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the International Federation of Journalists, the European Federation of Journalists, the Association of European Journalists, the international organization Reporters Without Borders, the International Olympic Committee on Information and Psychological Aggression. I'm sorry. The International Olympic Committee on Information and Psychological Aggression by the media of the Russian Federation against Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, remind me of the registration number of this project 4026a. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of our session. Please vote. [[13:09:38]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Now, colleagues, wait. 60 – Fatherland, 0 – Regions, Hit – 33, 27 – Economic Development, 28 – "North European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", 0 – KPU, non-fractional – 29. Please, the People's Deputy of Kyde.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u110	Thank you. Alexy Kaida, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I will ask that question again. And I will ask you to put it on until it is included and voted on. The point of the matter. The media of the Russian Federation, and this has already been proved by our journalists, have repeatedly distorted the facts that are taking place in the territory of Donetskéya, Luhansk district, Crimea. When the facts were revealed from the meeting of the pope of Rome, this was shown as 140 percent of the beaches of Crimea. When missiles were shown to work in Abkhazia, our troops were told that they were firing at the city of Donbassa. At the top of cynicism was when our Olympic champion, Olena Podgrushna, was lit up as if she were fighting.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u112	. He's fighting on Mount Karachoon. And now there are threats to her address. So I want to look into everyone's eyes sitting here, how they vote for what they can blame your women, your children, your parents. And when they are threatened with physical destruction, it is necessary to stop. And that's why we're calling on international, European journalistic institutions to give their assessment and to explain the facts that we're looking at. What's wrong with that? I address your conscience first. And please, Alexander Valentine's Day, once again put to the vote the draft of this order of inclusion in the agenda. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, and I request the attention of all Ukrainians inside and outside the country. Why do we have to immediately go back, look at and support the project, Oleg's draft Decision on the Protection of All Ukrainians and Ukrainians abroad. First. These people are actually in the Kremlin's mouth in Russia and we have to help them, we have to create all the necessary conditions. The other one. I continue to view as the main partner of Parliament, of the new power in the country, of the Ukrainian people in Russia, who have to wake up, to realize that it is under threat of dictatorship, absolute and infinite dictatorship. And with the help of our citizens abroad, especially in Russia, help them see the way to insight and salvation. This is the main mission of this draft Decision. I urge and urge you to vote for him, to protect the sons and daughters of Ukraine outside our country!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u115	Thank you. National MP Rudzkowski, please, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I also join in, and I think we should go back to this question and support our Ukrainians, no matter where they are. And also, Alexander Valentinovich, I'm addressing you, from the millions of people who are now living on the Donbasa, who are now in the ATO. Alexander Valentinovich, every day we communicate with people, there really is a humanitarian disaster: no bread, no electricity, no life at all. People will die more from hunger if we do nothing but do war. But lots of rooms, lots of apartment buildings are bombarded, cars, property. I propose today to include 4073a, a bill on State aid to victims in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation. So that the state can compensate people for their damage.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u117	Please understand the offer, 4073. I would like to remind you, my fellow citizens, that we have now included in the agenda the 4998 project, the "Restoration of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced citizens" project, which refers to this category of citizens. Thus, respected colleagues understood the offer. Please, National Deputy Kirilenko. Colleagues, let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u118	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. I'm going to be talking about this draft decree, asking about the activities of Russian journalists in reporting events in Ukraine. Let us remember this tragic day when a Ukrainian plane was hit by Russian media. They said that this plane was hit by Ukrainian forces, even though the whole world has already proved, including by intelligence and satellite, that Russian terrorists, Russian citizens from Russian weapons, have knocked down a Ukrainian military-transport aircraft. Are there objective journalists in Russia? There may be a small number, especially those who broadcast protests by Russians when they write at the Ukrainian Embassy in Russia: "Ukrainians, forgive us!".. But for the time being, they're a unit of journalists. And we call on international journalistic organizations to encourage Russian journalists to be objective. Please vote on this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the proposals made by the deputies are intended to re-initiate the draft Order on the application of the Supreme Council to the International Federation of Journalists, and so forth. — Registration No. 4026a. Let's sit in the workplace and still vote for this project together so that we don't go back four or five times. Please, Your Honor, 4026a, draft decree to refer the Supreme Council to the International Federation of Journalists, other organizations to implement the media of the Russian Federation against Ukraine of Information and Psychological Aggression. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion of this draft decree, please vote. [[13:17:17]] For 227 Decision taken. Why don't we vote east in general? We're voting in general, our honourable colleagues, this draft decree. Please, 4026a. [[13:17:42]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! I see the hand of Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka, who asks for a minute of attention and to vote in general, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! Which of our colleagues suspected that we, as co-authors of the bill, were paying attention to the meaningful things involved in inadequacies about the situation in Ukraine. What I'm saying is that we actually talked about the principle of why this is very important, because we're not going to do anything to protect our information space unless international organizations are involved. And our idea was that Russia was represented by all international media organizations, it was represented in European international associations, and that our colleagues, both from SND and from Europe, and from the world were actively involved in the work and did everything not only to protect objectivity and truth, but to convince journalists that Putin was coming and going, and their profession and oath to be honest journalists remained. So there is a request to return to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! The national deputy of the Ingredient has just approached 226 votes to support this decision. Please, Your Honor, on the basis and overall of Project 4026a, inspiration I feel in the halls is there. Please vote. [[13:19:28]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, there was a suggestion that we would now also support the draft decree on our Ukrainians who live in the Russian Federation and who are seriously affected by the problems of persecution, with restrictions on their constitutional and social rights (4046a). Please, Your Honor, please support this decision, because Russia is very concerned about Russians who live outside Russia. Let's demonstrate our position, and instead of the bluff that they're spreading about the persecution of Russians outside Russia, there are real problems in the Russian Federation, when there are no Ukrainian schools for millions of our fellow countrymen in Russia that are citizens of Russia, but they are Ukrainians of origin, and many other problems, the closure of Ukrainian language societies, and so on. Therefore, respectable colleagues, the request to support this important project of 4046a. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[13:20:56]] For 231 Decision taken. In general, there is a desire to support? There's a wish. I would like your fellow Members and, in general, your support for this draft decision. I ask you, Your Honor, to vote. [[13:21:24]] For 229 Decision taken. How do you feel about sound guidance, or are you not? Dear colleagues, I'm asking you that we're going to finish this block and we have a few questions to go back to, and we haven't been able to get you into the agenda because there were no people. And I just didn't put them to the vote. Let us now make 4607 – the draft Act amending the current legislation of Ukraine on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption and abuse of power. Dear colleagues, fighting corruption is a very important issue, especially for Ukraine. Please. Please, colleagues, 4607 on amendment to existing legislation on citizens' rights in the fight against corruption. Please, fellow Members, I ask you to vote, I have a good memory, I remember everything. Please, Your Honor, 4607, please support the inclusion in the agenda. Vote! Yes, colleagues, fighting corruption is always a problem. [[13:22:36]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 66, Party of Regions – 0, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 1, Sovereign European Ukraine – 7, Freedom – 35, Company – 0, non-fractional – 21. Dear colleagues, the following question, the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the classification and repayment of debt obligations resulting from incomplete energy bills. Please, Your Honor, these are two alternative laws: 4566, 4566-1. The proposal to include as alternatives to the agenda. Please vote, Your Honor, please support the inclusion in the agenda. [[13:23:28]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. For-- Excuse me! Parenthood – 50, Party of Regions – 35, 17 – Impact, 10 – Economic Development, 24 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 0 – Freedom, KPU – 0, non-fractional – 27. Dear colleagues, calm down, please! I will declare all the laws that must be. The next draft of the law, the honourable colleagues that we commissioned and worked on by our colleagues, is Law 4032a, the Act on Occupied Territories. Remember, we considered this project, not including a block connected with economic activity in the occupied territory. This project is now being developed. Please, National Deputy Terjohin, turn on the microphone, one minute, and we'll make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you that when we passed the Law on Interimly Inoccupied Territories, in the 13th article, where it was about nuances of economic activity, we wrote that it was regulated by a separate law. Let me tell you: more than 12 meetings have been held for a month and a half, starting with the problems of network stores, insurance companies, banks, business evacuations, internal returnees, physical aids moving to other parts of Ukraine, all of this has been done, is supported by the government and all we need to do is to accept it without delay before the end of this session. Business, "uniters" just don't know what to do now, which is that there's a problem with evacuating the business from the temporarily occupied territory of individuals. Sufficient request: back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u123	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, I recall the full name of this project: the draft Tax and Customs Control Act in the Crimea Free Economic Zone and the specialities of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine (project registration number 4032a). The people are waiting for his acceptance. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda. [[13:26:03]] For 197 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 65 – "The Fatherland", "Regions" – 4, 33 – "The Impact", 24 – "The Economic Development", 13 – "The Sovereign European Ukraine", "Freedom" – 35.0 – Company, 23 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, I think that when Parliament is determined, this is an important issue -- we will have to go back to its consideration. The last question we haven't considered. And we also have three questions that were missed during the consideration of this block. This is a draft law amending article 34 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on strengthening guarantees of independent justice. Is there a Yemeni national MP? Yeah, turn him on, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, you have a very important bill for today, because we all understand that in the territories that are now occupied by terrorists and diversniks, the execution of justice is not what's complicated, it's impossible. And today criminal-procedural legislation determines that criminal conduct is being carried out at the scene of a crime, that is, crimes of terrorism, murder, robbery, rape. They can be opened exclusively by courts in this area. And since it is not possible to do so, the discovery of criminal conduct is also impossible. So there's a proposal for a very simple readjustment. In article 34, in the case of jurisdiction, add paragraph 5 that "criminal conduct is referred to another court if there is a threat of ensuring the independent exercise of justice or interference with professional activities of judges". Honorable colleagues, society and the legal system today demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, understood the position of both the profile committee and the authors of the law. In fact, it's a project that needs to be supported. Project number 4973. Colleagues, No.4973 draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on strengthening guarantees of independent justice. Respectful colleagues, an important issue, have to do with protecting the rights of our citizens in an area that, let us say, is now within the framework of an antiterrorist operation where justice is virtually impossible. Please, Vlasenko, a national MP. Turn on the microphone. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u126	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich! But unfortunately, the text of the law, as it was formulated, allows any criminal case to be referred from any court to any other. The judge writes, "There's a threat, because I'm going to be affected."and they're handing it over. I think that maybe in the first reading we should accept it, make the necessary corrections in a reduced mode, and make it clear that it is only about matters that should be dealt with under the usual rules of jurisdiction in areas where either anti-terrorist operations are taking place. But it's absolutely clear and concrete, because unfortunately, once again, this formulation allows for any matter only at the wish of one of the participants in the process to transfer to any other place and to change jurisdiction in this way. We already know, unfortunately, what that leads to. We have historical examples that are not very positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, I'll remind you that we're not talking about acceptance as a whole or in the first reading, we're talking about inclusion in the agenda. So, dear colleagues, let's take a look at this issue of inclusion in the agenda. Let me remind you, the registration number for this project 4973. Please, Your Honor, vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:30:06]] For-161 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Parenthood – 60, Regions – 0, Impact – 0, Economic Development – 30, 14 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues! We missed a few questions with you. I'm asking us to come back a few more minutes and we'll finish this block. Please, Your Honor, look at the draft decree, we didn't put it to the vote. On the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Metropolitan of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church, Andrija Sheptick. Please, Your Honor. It's a great piece of Ukrainian history. I'm asking you, Your Honor, to support this project (4233). Please be supportive. [[13:31:06]] For 214 The decision is not made. The factions, please. 66 – Fatherland, Regions – 1.34 – Impact, Economic Development – 25.23 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 30. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u128	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear colleagues, right, left, members of the coalition, not members of the coalition. It's a test vote. So it seems that we are living, this vote has shown that many are still living in the Ukraine of yesterday. So many Communist mists have been abandoned against Sheptsky. This is a unique figure in Ukrainian history, during the war he hid around a thousand Jewish people, a highly educated person who, several times in those years, traveled to Russia, building a Ukrainian church, a unique man, who would be proud of any European nation. And they're sitting here, and they're all not going to give a vote for us to put into the agenda, and once again, we've put it into the agenda and we've discussed this, once again, a unique figure in our Ukrainian history. Not church, but Ukrainian history, because he was more of a public figure, even than a priest. So much has been done for Ukraine that if each of you had made one-tenth, this Ukraine would have been completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u129	I got the offer. National deputy Herman. Please turn on Mrs. Honey's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u130	Honorable National MPs. I suggest we go back to this vote and support it. The whole world is indeed going to celebrate 155 years from the birthday of the Metropolitan Andria and there are documents in Rome for its biotification and this is a shame for the Ukrainian Parliament not to support this date of celebration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can. Viacheslav Kirilenko says that we can be the head of the profiling committee. Please. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to support this Act with regard to its inclusion in, excuse me, the inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, 4233 registration number, let's support, support this project. Ladies and gentlemen, please. [[13:33:35]] For 234 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u132	All of it? In general, dear fellows, let's do it. Let's support it in general without discussion. Please, Your Honor, I'm voting. [[13:34:04]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have not yet considered a draft law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for reserve and reserve age), which is draft registration number 4844. His author, the man who knows these things, is very deeply responsible, Alexander Kuzmuk. Please support the inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[13:34:51]] For 211 Decision taken. The factions, please. Colleagues, please, let's concentrate. 67 – "The Fatherland", Regions – 0, "The Strike" – 34, 29 – "The Economic Development", "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 22.35 – "Freedom", The Company – 0, non-fractional – 24. Dear colleagues, can we mobilize or not on this issue? Please, colleagues. This is a matter that regulates the activities of our military, the ones that are in reserve that are able to protect our country. Please. Dear colleagues, please support inclusion in agenda 4844. Vote please, Your Honor. [[13:35:53]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 70 – "The Fatherland", The Party of Regions – 0.32 – "The Impact", "The Economic Development" – 31, "The Sovereign European Ukraine" – 21.35 – "Freedom", 0 – KPU, "the Non-Factional" – 27. Next question, dear colleagues. Asks National Deputy Timoshenko to return to draft Act No. 4047a amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine (as regards the legislative definition of the legal status of the amount of the temporarily occupied territory and the inclusion of the category of natural resources and objects of architectural, historical and cultural heritage in this area). Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself for inclusion in the order of day 4047a. Please vote. [[13:36:53]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 68 – "Fatherland", regions – 0.30 – "BRA" – 27 – "Economic development", 25 – "Sovereign European Ukraine", 35 – "Freedom", and the Company – 0, non-fractional – 22. Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak to Oleg Taggedyside. And we're going to put the risk under this block of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u133	Respectable association is such a request. 4074a, I was at the Conciliation Council yesterday on the demand of the pilots to make such a proposal, this is about amending article 26 of the Act on Guaranteeing the Investments of Natural Persons in order to ensure the implementation of the State's targeted socio-economic programme of construction and the acquisition of affordable housing. I'd like to put this in the agenda. And so, Mr. Head, there's a proposal after the break to put the first question of 4048a that we put into the agenda. With regard to the draft Ordinance on the Use of Measures to Strengthen the Protection of the State Border. This is now a very topical topic, especially since the National Security and Defence Council adopted a decision yesterday. So I'd like to ask you right after the break to put this question on the ground and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, let's take a look at the inclusion of Oleg Tuggnibok in the agenda. This is Project 4047. Sorry, 4074a is about the system of guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons to ensure the implementation of the State's targeted socio-economic programme "Builts, Acquisitions of Access to Housing". I'll remind you, it's a day-to-day inclusion. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself from this issue of inclusion. 4074a please vote. [[13:39:03]] For 222 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 65 – Fatherland, 21 – Regions, 31 – Impact, 13 – Economic Development, 25 – Sovereign European Ukraine, 35 – Freedom, 0 – non-fractional 32. Dear colleagues, you and I need to make a decision. Again with this project? This project is requested by the MPs once again. I can't refuse to ask the people's deputies to work off-duty. Please, Your Honor, 4074a is a project on a system of guaranteeing the contributions of individuals. Please, Your Honor, determine how to get into the agenda. Please. [[13:40:05]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor, we're going to go to the section "Decision for Decisions on the Issues under Discussion." He asks for a national MP, the Ingredient Word, and the Deputy Yavorowski. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the agenda of the 4032 bill. We're all saying that Crimea is a Ukrainian territory that has Ukrainian citizens living in Crimea. But we haven't worked with you on how they live there, how they work, how they run economic activities. A bill on tax and customs control in the Crimea free economic zone has been drafted. I would like to emphasize that it's proposed to make Crimea a free economic zone. So that the people who work there will somehow be able to feed themselves and feel part of Ukraine. But about the characteristics of economic activity in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, if we don't accept this question, how do we claim that Crimea is Ukrainian territory? How will the people of Crimea want to live in Ukraine and return to the lands of the Ukrainians? I'd like you to come back and put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u136	Do you understand the offer, Your Honor? Got it. Please, Your Honor, let's redefine the support of the draft Law 4032a with regard to its inclusion in the agenda. In order of the day, colleagues, please support. 4032a. [[13:41:55]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u137	Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina Dear Mr. Head, two months ago this Supreme Council voted in favour of the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission for violations committed by the police against Automidan. We voted. In fact, the commission was legally created, but it lacked a quorum. And I have to say there are two more candidates from other factions. This is Mikola Soroka and Stanislaw Berezkin. Today, we are ready. We just have to put the vote on a purely formal basis and vote in favour of adding these two candidates. Well, you can't take it anymore. We voted and they wonder why this committee doesn't work. I'm asking you, and you know, Alexander Valentine's Day, how much does this document go on? It already seems to have you on the table, let's vote in favour of adding these two candidatures, once again, Soroka and Bereskin, from different factions, and now we have most of the factions that exist, and the groups that are in the Supreme Council, and everything will stand still. Please do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u138	Please remind me of the registration number, Vladimir Aleksandrovich. The registration number remind me of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u139	I'll say I can't remember right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u140	When you say so, I'll be able to put it to a vote. Fellows, please, let's move on to the agenda. We still have time to deal with the issue. We now have very serious questions about the fact that we have discussed the issue of stability with you carefully. Stabilization, yeah, I'm watching. A question related. So I'm done. Found it. By stabilizing the financial system and, above all, the banking sector of Ukraine. We had a question with registration number 4983 discussed, discussed in detail in Parliament. And you and I have agreed that we will make a separate decision on this issue. Let me remind you, this is a draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2014 (for the financial support of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Natural Persons). Colleagues, we need to guarantee our citizens their bank deposits. To do that, we need to accept the changes to the budget this year. And after this case, when we support this project, we also have a project that goes on with this theme, it's 4938. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine on prejudice (minimization) to have a negative impact on the stability of the banking system. Please, Your Honor, 4983. I would like to remind you that the issue concerns financial support for the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals, i.e. changes to the State Budget of Ukraine. The committee's proposal was on the basis and in general. Do you understand the offer? Got it. Please, Your Honor, protect our citizens who have deposits in national banks in the banks of Ukraine. Please, dear fellows, please sit in your seats, please, a very responsible question, come on, dear fellows, and let's support this as a whole 4983. Please vote. [[13:45:47.]] For 261 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. And let's now consider Law 4938, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on prejudice (minimization) to have a negative impact on the stability of the banking system. I would like to ask Mr. Rizhenkov, in the head of the Committee, whether on the basis and in general? In general. Based on what? Not ready for the Supreme Council to vote in general, just as a basis. Therefore, honourable colleagues, 4938, in order to accept it as a basis, or in the first reading, need to return to the consideration of the matter. Please return, Your Honor, to question 4938. Please support the offer. [[13:46:47]] For 215 Dear colleagues, the important question is the stability of Ukraine’s financial system. What's the problem? On the basis of that, we agreed that we would vote on the basis, but in order to accept it, we need to go back to the subject. Please, Your Honor, support Project 4938, that is, return to the subject. I'm talking to everyone. Ruslan Petrovich, please vote as well. Please, Your Honor, support the return to this issue, 4938, please, your colleagues, the stability of the financial system. [[13:47:32]] For 233 Decision taken. The committee's proposal to accept this project on the first reading is to work on it. Please, Your Honor, support the committee's proposal, I remind you, we've been discussing this issue, 4938 - based. Please vote. [[13:48:01]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Is there a need for a reduced voting procedure or not? There's no need, okay. Dear colleagues! The next issue that we discussed and from which we need to take a decision (2203a) is the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on social security for mining, mining and state-owned emergency relief services in the coal industry. Please, Your Honor, 2203a. Committee proposal: based on acceptance, that is, in the first reading. Please identify yourself, fellow believers, (2203a). Please vote on the basis. [[13:49:02]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The next issue is the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of taxation of entities of the software industry and participants in the National Technopolis Project – the creation of infrastructure for innovation and high technology and its components (worked project). The Committee's proposal is based on 2063d. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself with regard to the adoption of this project as a basis. [[13:49:54]] For 202 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! We've discussed with you all the questions related to the block of pre-considered draft legislative acts, now we have not much time left until the break, we can start the second reading. Let's do 0912, your honor, the draft Amendment Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u141	What about the President's appeal?
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u142	We're not ready. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food. Please, the First Deputy Head of the Health Committee, Ilik Romanovitch. Very briefly, it is concise when there are no comments and in general a vote can be taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u143	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! Your consideration is presented in a table of amendments to the draft bill. This is a transitional bill that was tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council in 2012. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, this bill has been introduced to the newly elected Supreme Council. In a very short time, I'm going to remind myself of the essence of the bill. It is a ban on the circulation of food products containing or produced by genetically modified organisms prior to their national registration. And the second. This is to establish, at the legislative level, labelling requirements for food products, according to which manufacturers and sellers should reflect information on GMOs only in cases where the GMO content in these products is and does not exceed 0.9 percent. This approach to branding is applied in the laws of the European Union, the United States, Canada, and other countries around the world. In particular, according to the European Parliament and Council Regulations of 22 September 2003, food products produced from GMOs and containing GMOs are mandatory if the product contains more than 0.9 percent of GMOs separately. In Ukraine today, all food without exception is marked "no GMOs" or "no GMOs".
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u144	Roman Romanovich, I'm sorry, it's not the first reading, it's the second reading. So the committee has a proposal to support it. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u145	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, do you know what GMO is? Yes or no? Therefore, it is necessary to make markings. The committee's proposal to support this project in second reading and in general. No objections? There's no objection. Please, Honorary Fellows, 0912, draft Law amending some of Ukraine's laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food. Please, Your Honor, accept this law as a whole. [[13:53:18]] For-188. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I don't understand. This is not a political issue. It refers to the health of our citizens, and I do not understand how the Communist Party, which says that it cares about the health of our citizens and does not vote in this case. So, your honor, can I put it to the vote again? I can. Shall we vote, Adam Ivanovich? Please turn on the microphone. National MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u147	Thank you. Martinyuk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Indeed, this bill does not apply to the health of citizens. Because right now, Ilik reported correctly what's written today, either "GMO" or "No GMO." There's nothing to write here if there's no level. That is, a certain level of GMO is allowed, and then it's allowed. And if it exceeds, write, and if it does not exceed, do not write. We're talking about pure products, not GMOs. We are for the health of the citizens, and I suggest we not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u148	Please turn on Alexander Mirny's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u149	Alexander Mirny, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. You know, this Supreme Council has probably already broken all the records of the Pharisee and of the lie, and out of desire to show itself as best. I think not voting for this bill is purely mercantile interests, just paid by those companies that are not interested in making markings in some way or other. Why are we writing these bills and accepting them? Because we are trying to harmonize our legislation with European legislation and then with the world market. And if we don't, the best of our purest products will never pave the way for Europe. And we have to understand that because Europe is opening the door to us right now, but it says that we are not ready to accept the wrong food products. Let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I ask once again the hall so that we can make up our minds on this matter. The P.O. is one minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u151	I want to tell you as an expert in authority on this issue that there were already two great scientists, Lysenko and Vaville. And you know, back in the Soviet Union, genetics was said to be a sales girl of imperialism. And so they rejected for 70 years the development of genetic science in the former Soviet Union. Today this bill must be voted on, because we must go to Europe, standards must exist. And up to one percent, you can do it all. Further science says that we need to study these products and their impact on the livestock we feed, and then on humans. And today they don't want just because in Ukraine all the soybeans, all the corn, all the vegetable crops are already genetically modified. Therefore, we must set a minimum limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-06-17-m0.u152	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, let's be clear, I'm the only one I see, we haven't had a lot of deputies in two hours, and it's been lunchtime again for many, even though we haven't closed the session yet, the first part of the morning. Please, Your Honor, return to this question 0912, please, Your Honor, return to the matter. [[13:57:25]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We have enough people now who are willing to support the appointment of the local elections. We have a lot of determinations. Many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, Can we use the package to make a noise? [[B in m in s a l in]] How? [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectful colleagues, experts, and experts in the Rules believe that this is the right thing to do and that it is not the right thing to do. So, colleagues, let's do it. Now we're calling it a break until 4:00. I ask you not to be late for the evening session in order to make responsible and important decisions for our citizens. Including the assignment of out - of - turn local elections.
