ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We'll start our work with you. Please turn on the "Council" system and let's conduct the registration of the national MPs. There were 296 national deputies registered in the hall. The Supreme Council is opening its work. Dear colleagues, I am traditionally informing you that today the National Deputy of Popescu, Ivan Vasilovich, and the National Deputy, Sold Oksana Petrovna, are celebrating their birthday. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, our decision is to hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council today. That's why I'm asking you not to include any dynamics on the street. (Closed part of the meeting)
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, there is an offer to work without interruption. Do the MPs have the strength to last an hour and a half? We'll make it, thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to the secretariat. We continue to work, we can open the entrance to the media. And we, dear fellows, let's bravely endure. Ladies and gentlemen, I see we're on our way out, my friends. We've made our decision without interruption. I work with you all the time. Come on. Dear colleagues, there are several issues related to the security of our nation. One question is, I don't see Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Is there a Pinzenic Victor Mikhailovich? Find him. There is a draft regulation that deals with increasing efficiency in the use of funds by the Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies. It's about money, remember? – there were proposals and problems during the MPs' speeches that many citizens were counting costs and that they needed a simplified procedure for using them. To speed up their efficient use in the needs of the Armed Forces. It's the money that counts our citizens and the Armed Forces and the National Guard. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik and his colleagues Greens and Jonov prepared a draft decree on the regime for the use of financial donations for the material and medical provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. It's handed over to the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, I ask, I address you. Can we support this proposal without discussion? Can we? We can. Everyone studied, the committee also looked at the profile, found no problems. I think we can support it. Dear colleagues! This is the project of Decree 4701 on the regime for the use of financial donations for the material, technical and medical provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and I'm going to write "and the National Guard." I'm asking for a protocol. Because they also collect donations of charity in Nazgwardia. And I'd like you to set up the National Guard as well. Dear colleagues! Please support on the basis of the draft Decree 4701 as a whole. Only, technically. Now we have the "Council" system reloading. Isn't Victor Mikhailovich here yet? I didn't. I'm sorry. The "Work" system ready to work? Reload now. This is necessary in order for the separatists, the terrorists not to get into our "Council" system, the reboot is happening all the time. I'd like to ask our technicians to work more at night so that we can do our job effectively during the day. Irina Heratschenko, right? I'm asking the Secretariat, well, vote like the "Council" system doesn't work? We can vote with our hands. I ask the Secretariat to announce in the towers so that MPs can work.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! We're waiting, so I understand for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u4	It's already been working. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sit down and support the Supreme Council's draft decree on the regime for the use of financial donations for the material and technical and medical provision of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the National Guard for registration number 4701. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Please vote. Turn on the "Race" system. [[12:31:09]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The army and the Nachwardy will thank you. The factions, please. Friends, don't break up, we work with inspiration. 2 – Regions, Fatherland – 78, 33 – Impact, 24 – Economic Development, "North European Ukraine" – 24.34 – Freedom, The Company – 0, non-fractional – 35. Dear colleagues, I ask you, we have another issue related to the security of our country. We have a question about the negotiation process. Remember, we considered inclusion and included in the agenda a draft application. Orders of the Supreme Council on Parliament's application to initiate international negotiations on the deescalation of the situation around Ukraine. You know that the days may begin, I emphasize, negotiations may begin, and actually a negotiating directive has been prepared. And this initiative was signed by the leaders of virtually all the factions of our Supreme Council, the representatives of all factions. Colleagues, is it an offer to discuss or not to discuss? No discussion. I like your mood, dear colleagues. I am asking for draft regulation 4696 – a statement by the Supreme Council on the initiative of international negotiations on the deescalation of the situation around Ukraine. I'd like your support, Your Honor, on the basis of a total of 4696. [[12:32:52]] For 232 Decision taken. This is how the Supreme Council works professionally. Dear colleagues! Now we work within our agenda. No, no, we work all the time. The media should know that the Supreme Council has decided to work continuously, taking into account the situation in Ukraine. We've already accepted two very important questions while you're coming up. Dear colleagues! The first reading examines the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. There is a suggestion that we discuss it in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? None. Please be supportive. [[12:33:48]] For 184 Decision taken. Please, the author of the National Deputy of Wonderland Vitaly Olegovich. Project registration number 4369.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u5	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The bill proposes to increase social security for military personnel and their families during a special period. Unfortunately, the current edition of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families practically does not divide the duration of military service into peace and military time. The bill is designed to ensure the rights and social protection of members of family members of military personnel in carrying out their constitutional duty to protect their homeland and independence in our country, as well as to encourage military personnel to carry out proper military service. It is proposed that the period of service by members of the military service during a special period be considered as part of their insurance, careers, careers as a specialist, and dual - size public service. In addition, the project provides for the payment of some financial support to members of the family of military personnel during a special period of time, which will be at the level of the financial security that the soldier himself receives on the day of mobilization. I believe that the adoption of the law will provide an opportunity to encourage the military at a particularly dangerous time, raise their fighting spirit, and help our fellow countrymen defend Ukraine. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss? Please, Sergey Rafailovich Greenewecki of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u7	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! The commission committee will consider the draft law of the National Deputy of Wonderland. We received suggestions and observations from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior, Ukraine's Mini Infrastructure. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue is not a subject of legislative regulation. In particular, the author’s proposal to add to the double scope of the insurance service, herds, herds in special service, as well as to the State Service of the period of service of the citizens of the military service during a special period should be determined not by the Law on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, but by the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of July 17, 1992 (No. 393). Moreover, the bill's provision of additional benefits and the increase in the financial provision of military personnel and their families, according to the experts, would lead to additional costs from the state budget. The Chief Executive of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council does not support this bill and the results of the first reading suggest that it be rejected. When discussing a bill at the National Security and Defence Committee that took into account the complex military and political situation around Ukraine, we agreed on the need to support the legislative initiative and the majority of the votes to make a decision: recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill as a basis. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u8	There is an offer without discussion, dear colleagues. Clearly, this law is designed to support our military personnel and their families, and it is very important that they now feel the support of national MPs, parliament and countries as a whole. Please. First reading, Victor Mikhailovich, first reading. Yes, in the first reading, the committee proposed this decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. The Secretariat would like to call on all our colleagues who are tired and outside the Parliament. Please return to the session room. And now let's make a decision on support for the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, number 4369. Please support your fellow believers in the first reading of this project. [[12:38:24]] For 228 Decision taken. It's an unkind MP who can run and press the button. I'm asking you not to go running all over the hall again. Dear colleagues, by factions, please. Region Party 23, Fatherland 67, Impact 23, Economic Development 25, Sovereign European Ukraine 23, Freedom 32, Company 0, non-factional 35. Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable colleagues, a very important draft decree on further measures to strengthen Ukraine’s security in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation. I would also like to support the consideration of this issue by means of a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:39:12]] For-189 Decision taken. It's procedural, I think. Please report, National Deputy of Ukraine Orotyuk Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u9	Yuri Orotyuk, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Cherkaščina. I propose a draft Decision on additional measures to strengthen Ukraine’s security in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation. After Russian troops invaded, it became clear to all Ukrainians that our army had been too weakened for decades of looting and sabotage and needed reform. After many years of malnutrition and pillaging, the armed forces are in a state of mourning and can deny it only the representatives of the fifth column who do not want to vote and do not vote in favour of the Ukrainian army. Clearly, a steady development requires money that cannot afford this year’s budget. There is also a need to enact laws and change the concept of the Armed Forces, but there is no time. The threat of Russian aggression is already on the mainland and the state demands immediate action. However, there are a number of measures that do not require legislative grinding, but only political will, above all, need to be restored as quickly as possible in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Despite years of speculation about an exclusively contractual army, fortunately, the absence of an appeal is not enshrined in normative acts. Ex-President Janukovic's decree of 14 October last year determined that there was no appeal for 2014 to the Armed Forces, but that there was a appeal to the ranks of the U.S. Army of Ukraine. By that time the authorities were about to fight with their own people, resulting in tragic consequences. Fortunately, the Supreme Council has not been able to confirm the number of the Armed Forces for 2014, so now on the issue of the President’s responsibilities, a new Order is to be issued which prescribes the restoration of the appeal for the current year. Another option is to recommend that the Ministry of Education and Science study the possibility of retraining in schools, as well as the expansion of military pulpit activities in higher education institutions. To this day, Ukrainian nationalism adheres to the patriotism of ordinary citizens. Numerous men of all ages yearn to become volunteers, and they are charged with military service, even if they are not under military obligation. Conscientious citizens should be involved in military and military training. The most effective part of volunteers should be included in the military reserve, while others.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u10	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u11	They say they'll make up a territorial defense if they need it. The latter will help the Armed Forces to maintain public order during military operations. The Ministry of Defence should consider deploying all military units and military training centres for volunteers willing to join the Ukrainian Armed Forces reserve. In view of the highest national security priority, it is recommended that the Ministry of Finance study the possibility of involving the necessary funds. Please support the decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Razwadowski Viktor Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u13	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The committee at its meeting on March 26 discussed the draft Decree, registration number 4519, and supported the project by a majority of votes. However, in the course of the discussion of his text, it was suggested that some changes in the technical and legal nature with which both members of the committee and the author of the draft should be made. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of its first reading to adopt the draft as a basis and as a whole by issuing a decree in such an editorial. Let me read it completely for the transcript: "The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Recommending the acting president of Ukraine to study the appropriateness of reiterating the appeal to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The other one. Recommend to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine to study the purpose of expanding the study of initial military training in the "Protection of the Motherland" course in secondary general educational institutions, the restoration of military pulpit work in higher education institutions. Third. Recommend that the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine study the deployment of training centres for volunteers who can join the military reserve and the composition of territorial defence troops. Four. Recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine deal with the financial security issues outlined above. Fifth. Control over the implementation of this decree is to place on the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine national security and defence issues. Six. This decision takes effect from the day it was adopted." Please support the committee's proposal, and accept the project as a basis and as a whole, as outlined above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I see your hands up. Please sign up: two for, two against. National Deputy Kaplan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u15	People's Deputy Kaplin, Poltavščina, 144 constituency, Vitalia Klitka faction. Every Ukrainian must realize that the neighbourhood with the Imperial Kremlin must have a significant impact on our vigilance and on the continued willingness of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian army, and the Ukrainian state to defend their integrity in critical moments, I emphasize their economic interests. And it certainly takes meaningful, clear steps. I would like to point out to Ukrainian citizens that Victor Janukovic, along with the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine, had never met to reform the Ukrainian army substantially, professionally. A targeted multi-year campaign to destroy it, discredited the good name of Ukraine's military and industrial complex, reduced all efforts and means of patriotism of the Ukrainian army. Between the Ukrainian people and the army, a wedge of mistrust was killed. There was a clear campaign to capture the Kremlin of Ukraine. That is why the only legitimate government body in Ukraine – the Ukrainian Parliament – is now to be clear on the basis of the construction of a new, high-quality Ukrainian army. Therefore, our political power considers this decision to be perhaps too late but necessary to save Ukraine from war, internal contradictions, and, above all, the Imperial Kremlin. We will vote in favour of this decision. And I think it's just the first, there's going to be the next steps that will ensure the victory of the Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the People's Deputy Bublik, the Freedoms faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u17	I'd like a word with Oleg Tsagnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u18	Please turn on Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u19	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-U.S. Freedom Union. Honorary Society, today against Ukraine, is being waged by military aggression against Russia in order to destroy our territorial integrity and perhaps by destroying the independence of the Ukrainian State. In view of the fact that Ukraine can rely only on its own strength, today it is necessary for Parliament to take all steps at the legislative level so that we can actually strengthen the security of our state. First of all, we need to create opportunities for a whole range of patriots who can volunteer to be involved in appropriate teaching. It concerns those who really want to protect their homeland. And now there are hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian patriots all over the country. That's why we need to vote in favour of this bill. This bill allows for the actual involvement of those military personnel in the military reserve and in territorial defence forces. In addition, it is very important, and today such a signal in a closed session has already been given to the head of the Ministry of Defence. We need to raise the price of those who are now involved in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the National Guard. Because there are a lot of veterans who have been through military action, who have some experience, who now have a desire to protect, to fight for the benefit of our state. In addition, the bill provides an opportunity to expand the attractive military training and civil defence in schools, as well as to restore the work of the military pulpit in higher education institutions. That's why the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is calling for a vote in favour of this bill. This will help us to strengthen our defenses. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u20	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u21	Dear voters, dear colleagues! We are now discussing and will obviously adopt a decision on additional measures to strengthen Ukraine’s security in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation, in which so far and many of the people present here have not believed and are now continuing to believe that this is happening in real time and that we need to maintain the defense of the country’s home country. I would also like to say to the media that before that, immediately after the closed session, we have passed another parliamentary decree on the protection of the constitutional rights of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the military forces involved in an anti-terrorist operation aimed at protecting Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, the peaceful life of Ukrainian citizens. By the way, this decree, which has already been passed by parliament, clearly states: The Supreme Council of Ukraine guarantees the legal and social status of all military and internal affairs personnel involved in the antiterrorist operation and their families as members of the fighting for the protection of the Fatherland. These are two urgent decisions that Parliament has adopted one, which must now take. Why are we now obliged to accept them? And because 22 years earlier, with very small exceptions, the attention of society had never been directed to the army. No one thought they would ever really have to rely on Parliament for skills and skills. And for the past four years, Moscow agents, agents of the Russian Federation, have run both the Ministry of Defense and the Security Service, and the Ucrobronexports. All of this needs to be corrected immediately. And we should also remember one more thing. From now on, all the resources, all the money of the state, all the information policy has to focus on the interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u22	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u23	the interests of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Because if we don't make those conclusions now, until it's too late, we're going to have to show the actions of an army of another occupying country. And we can't let that happen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u24	Thank you. The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy. And I will give Vladimir Mikhailovich's word to the committee's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the predecessor rightly said it was a determination. Because another predecessor said it was a bill. That's not right. If this was a bill, then the wordings that we put in here, we just don't have the right to write. Because studying relevance and everything else is not the law of the bill. That's the first one. One second. As the man who served in the army and in the service, and then in the officers' congregations, and in the so-called congregations, you know what "partisans" called us. Let us ask ourselves the question: Ukraine needs a modern professional army or these guerrillas? I believe that under these conditions we can accept this decision, Alexander Valentinovich. But Razwadowski correctly put it, and more specifically the committee, that these issues should be professionally defined. And that's why it's just a committee formulation. Learn the appropriateness of restoring the appeal, and in fact the elimination of the professional contractual army. Can we go on if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u26	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u27	Can we go on if we take this crisis period today? I hope we, Ukraine, will be honored to get out of it. Then compete if we have volunteers instead of people in whom it is a profession to serve. And then that tank that fell yesterday will never fall, because whoever served knows that at least three tanks have to cover each other up. Then these voluntary forms, obviously if they are, will be professional. It's worth a vote, but in the format proposed by the committee, it's good to learn the meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. And he's asking for a very national MP, Philippeenko. Let's give him a minute, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Valentinovich, dear colleagues! A few details. The committee suggested that the Order should have such a name, and I would like to support "For more measures to strengthen Ukraine's security." And a dot. Because defense needs to be strengthened constantly. And the second. We do not need to re-enact this draft regulation with a proposal to increase the age limit for mobilization. We accepted you, and the Acting President of Ukraine signed the Ukrainian Law on April 1, which extended the term to 55 years. So this problem is solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u30	Thank you. One minute for the Pilipenka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u32	I'm sorry! I ask the Secretariat to invite members to the voting room.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! The MP's Economic Development Group will certainly support this draft decision. At the same time, a proposal by the head of the profile committee regarding the name seems correct. And many speakers, virtually all who spoke from this rostrum, agree that the problem is much deeper. We should not make a single decision about the feelings of patriotism, raising citizens to want to protect their homeland. The point is, in this room, we really need to address the issues of resilience and understand what our defenses are. In this case, it may be necessary to hold special parliamentary hearings at which both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Education and Science and public organizations, especially youth organizations, are invited. And here in this case, after these hearings, you have to go to a consolidated decision on a recommendation from the Cabinet of Ministers that can form a normal program to restore Ukraine's security. As they said before, you're high-tech, pair of bellums. We have to think constantly and in.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u34	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u35	In peacetime, we must also consider the security of our nation. And raising young citizens, young people, in schoolmates, is an obligation to protect their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We can go on making decisions now. The only thing that bothers me is that Parliament has agreed to work without interruption. And a lot of MPs who didn't have a patriotic break did it for themselves and left. And I'm very concerned that we may not be voting on serious issues right now. So let's just say, what I'm asking us to do right now is, let's say, not experimental voting, but verifiable voting? Signal. Signal. That's a good word. The signal vote for us to make, check, do we have enough votes? I would like us not to destroy this decree and then move it to Thursday and then accept it as a whole. No objections? I won't. I'm asking respectable colleagues, honourable colleagues, including from the Party of Regions, I'm asking you to take your seats. And let's make a signal of Parliament's willingness to make important decisions. Please, Peter Alexiyovich, please also support this project. Please vote in favour of Project 4519. Please vote in favour. [[12:57:08]] For 190 Dear friends, only 190 deputies. By factions, please let's take a look at discipline. Regional Party – 0, Fatherland – 58, Impact – 24; 24 – Economic Development, 22 – Sovereign Ukraine, 35 – please take an example; 0 – Company, 27 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues! Once again, please, I will not put this project to the vote now so that we cannot destroy it without accepting it without supporting it. We'll take it to Thursday. At the same time, I ask the national deputies to come into the hall. And if I see that the hall is ready to vote, I may vote today. Now, dear colleagues, we are considering a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of information on the state registration of rights and their burdens from the State Register of Real Estate Rights (Project 4590). I would like to support Parliament's consideration of this project by means of a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'd like to vote for it. [[12:58:29]] For 184 Decision taken. Please give the first deputy minister of justice to Imelian Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, distinguished national MPs, Ukraine! You are presented with a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of information on state registration of rights and their burdens from the State Register of Real Estate Rights. It is designed to expand the list of entities that will be able to provide extracts from the relevant register. Today. If you look at article 9 of the Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights, it is established that information from the State Register is provided exclusively by the State Register. At the same time, we know that the notary is now acting as a state registry when it comes to contracts, when it comes to notarial contracts, it immediately submits information to the state registry. These notaries are now linked to the State Register of Real Estate Rights. And the bill suggests that notaries also become subjects who will have the right to be removed from the State Register of Real Estate Rights. This means that citizens will have an alternative. A citizen may either apply to the State Authority for the registration of real estate rights to a government registry or to a notary for his own discretion. I'm asking you to support this bill. It will, of course, improve the quality of providing administrative services in the area of the State Register of Real Estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for a report from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u39	Xenya Lapina, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 9 April 2014 considered Bill 4590, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and determined that it was aimed at facilitating the procedure for Ukrainian citizens to be removed from the State Register of Real Estate Rights. We've determined that this will really improve the quality of administrative services. Indeed, the bill expands the authorization of notaries in the field of state registration of real estate rights. In fact, this system is now in operation. Registration is already under way, especially for the choice of a citizen through a notary or through a government registry. In fact, notaries are given partial rights by the State registrar and this expands their capabilities. We believe that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the draft result of the first reading can be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u40	I got the offer. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? Is there no need to discuss? There's a need. Let's have the People's Deputy Philippeenko. And who else? Yavorowski, I see your hand. Please, but you can get out of here faster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor to discuss the sole purpose of this bill, namely that it actually makes stylistic and technical changes to legislation. And in principle, the Economic Development Group believes that because it is, first of all, aimed at protecting the rights of citizens who apply to notaries of state registration agencies, it contains only two changes in articles – article 46-1 with a single badge and article 28 of the Law on State Registration of Goods Rights. In fact, this bill can be accepted not only as a basis but also as a whole. I ask, in fact, for now, if there is no objection, let's put this bill to the vote as a whole in order to help the citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the only thing I fear is that we don't have enough votes. So let's do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll call later. Please, national deputy Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u43	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, our constituents! Trinity, Kiev, Fatherland. Of course, our legislative ideology has to move in the same direction – it is to simplify as much as possible all procedures as possible, which are only in the Ukrainian business, in registration and so forth. Georgia did it, it did it in Saakashvili's time, and you know it's been a huge success. Because, on the one hand, it's wonderful that we're simplifying, of course, registration. These are also cuts in bribes, which every stage of a person is forced to pay, and so on. Because of this, of course, this bill needs to be supported. However, in our situation, let’s say that I am personal. I'm afraid I'm thinking that today's authority is just, in fact, a notary, a notary, there and so forth, to go around other institutions. This may also trigger, for example, reinforcements, but notaries alone can also strengthen corruption schemes. This is why this bill needs to be voted in, but the law enforcement agencies, our anti-corruption systems, of course, have to fight against the fact that this is not going to be a major and decisive notary. In general, the bill has to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Golovko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u45	Deputies! Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Bill 4590 is, by the way, very appropriate. We looked at it on the committee and unanimously supported it, since it greatly expands the authorization of notaries. It's a goal. It authorizes notaries to conduct real estate rights in the area of state registration in part of their functions regarding the granting of an extract from the State Register. And this will significantly improve the work of the registration agencies. The main thing is that it will enable the citizens of Ukraine, simplify these functions, and facilitate the process of real estate transformation. Because we see how many people are talking to us and asking us that there are, in fact, difficulties in registering right now. That's why we think it's right to support not only the first reading, but in general, because it's about expanding the function of notaries, and so we're improving the procedure for registering real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u46	Thank you. Please make your last speech. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u47	People's Deputy Kaplin, Faction of Impact, Vitaly Klitschka, Poltavščina, 144 constituency. Vitaly Klitka's political party will always be on the watch for anti-corruption policy today and tomorrow. And we certainly support all that is involved in simplifying business, doing simple, ordinary citizens, and developing law, protecting the legitimate rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. At the same time, I would like to address the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice. During the reign of the Yanukovic regime and the regimes of the country's individual presidents, we had a whole caste of criminals in our country called "black notaries". They're known in every city, they've served all the criminal agreements, they've allowed and provided legal solutions to the actual process of genocide against ordinary people, they've taken away apartments, property, business. We must now, at this post-revolutionary time, end this caste, draw up lists of similar people. And the public organization that I lead, the National Anti-Corruption Army, starts with the strike party of the entire campaign to clear Ukraine of corruption, from this caste of notaries, to raise trust and professionalism, and to provide opportunities without hindrance, in a legal way, to work for other notaries. And don't let these bastards get in the way and embarrass the notary of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We discussed the questions. All the speakers offered to uphold the law. I'm not ready to put it in general, only when we support it in the first reading. I'd like the deputies to take their seats. I see that the number of those present is enough to pass the law, the only way Parliament will vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to adopt a bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the provision of information on the state registration of rights and their burdens from the State Register of Real Estate (the registration number of this project 4590). Please support me as a base. Please vote. [[13:08:34]] For 222 Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, let's make it. Please come into the hall. See, you weren't there, and you didn't pass the law, and your voice just wasn't enough. Please, dear fellows, let's work seriously! Well, the "Rada" channel on-line allows all citizens to see our meeting. And when we can't vote, people are amazed. Let the voting classes be conducted in the morning by Parliament to properly push the buttons at the right time. I request that the Supreme Council return to this law: 4590. Please vote in favour. [[13:09:27]] For 232 We can vote. Honorable colleagues, then, may they put them in general? And in general. Let's just say that we have something better in general, which is the basis, I don't know why. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to support this bill as a whole. Please vote. [[13:09:58]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. 24 – "Regions", 73 – "Paternality", 30 – "FATHER", 28 – "Economic Development", 22. Don't go away, dear fellows. We'll have a direct vote before we leave. 22 – "Sovereign European Ukraine". 32 "Freedom", 3 votes in "Freedom" are still available. The company is 0. 26 – non-fractional. Dear colleagues, can we support the committee's draft ruling? Project 4519. We agreed to make a decision on this matter. Let's try it. This issue is very important in strengthening Ukraine’s security at the editorial level, on which the committee and committee head Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin insisted. Please, Your Honor, let's all support this project together, 4519. I'd like you to support me as a whole. [[13:11:02]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please give the factions. 0 – Party of regions. I don't understand, distinguished representatives of the Party of Regions, well, why don't we want the defense to strengthen our country? I'm surprised! 73 is Fatherland. 30. Hit. 28 — Economic Development. 21 — The Sovereign European Ukraine. 33 - Freedom. 0 is a company. 23 – non-fractional. Colleagues, defense, I think it's about all the people's deputies who here have declared the oath from this rostrum, and we all have to be responsible for it, in due course. Colleagues, you and I had an agreement to go back to making decisions on the issues under discussion, including two draft laws that were not voted on yesterday, 4638 and 3004 – the merger of the mayor of Kiev and the head of the administration. I promised to re-vote today. In order to test the willingness to deal effectively with this issue, I ask you to support the proposal to return to the consideration of these issues. Please vote 4638 and 3004. [[13:12:25]] For-163 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. 18 – Party of regions. 26, Fatherland. 26 – "BACK". 15 — Economic development. 23 — The Sovereign European Ukraine. 32 - Freedom. 0 is a company. 23 – non-fractional. Please, Vitalia Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a request. I was speaking yesterday, very strangely, every single one of us who lives in Kiev, we're all in Kiev right now, and we see the decline of our capital. It's very important that in order to get out of this situation, out of this crisis, it's very important to build a vertical power, so it's very important that the Chinese have a mayor. Today, the situation we are in has been deliberate: for more than two years now, Kiev has no measure, no more than two years of self - government in Kiev. They took away the opportunity to influence the process. I want to go to the House of Fatherland MPs because you don't support this bill, it's very strange. We understand that the mayor is a person who is given the authority of the cyanide, and a person from whom they will ask why certain steps have been or have not been taken. And we are confident that today we must do everything we can to enable the mayor to have authority and to fulfill the promises he makes to the Chinese. It is very strange when the "Fatherskina" party submits the same bill – 1032, 1032-1 – from Pavlovski, Odarchenka, the bill on the capital, the city-hero of Kiev (for the appointment of the head of the Kiev City Administration, exclusively the person elected by the Kiev City Head); 1032-2 – Kirilenko and Liapinina, who have so far supported the unification of posts, but now for some reason do not support the bill. Because the representative of Fatherland today is the head of the government. I'm sure, in order not to destroy self-government, we have to allow the Chinese to choose the measure and we have to give the measure the opportunity to implement those promises, those things that require the cynics. The Chinese demand a comfortable clean city where they can live and work. And this is a visit from Ukraine. And this thing from Kiev is going to start changing all over the country. So all of us together should be able to realize this, these aspirations, but not with political motivations to do everything in order not to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u50	Thank you. And he insists on the word of Nicholas Catherinechuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u51	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Indignantly, we also observe what is happening on Kiev’s issue. Because not so long ago, a bill on two tours was broken, unfortunately, not all of the strike faction supported this legislative initiative. Although we know that Vitaliy himself Klitschko personally supports this proposal. On this issue, it seems to me that the Law of Paul, which is similar, should be considered. And we're ready to support it, as well as support the two-way system of mayoral selection in Kiev. Everyone understands the need for these steps. Everybody promised the voters, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u52	Please, National Deputy Illenko. I can see the hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! Andrew Illenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I now address all representatives of the MP factions, especially the coalition. We know that Kiev has long been a hostage of political agreements. And when Kiev was constantly absent and Kiev was constantly sacrificed. This was at a time when the elections in Kiev had not been scheduled for years. This occurred when changes to the Capital Law were made, and Kiev’s authority was limited. When Kiev was ruled by people whom no one had chosen. We remember all of this very well. It was quite recent. And now, unfortunately, we see that this continues. Because on the one hand, when it comes to the two-round election of a city head, and that's a perfectly normal legal requirement, we see that some coalition deputies don't vote for it. On the other hand, we see another situation. When it comes to making a real mandate for a city head, another part of the coalition doesn't vote for it. So, society, I think we need to consider the issue of the two-tier election system in Kiev and the question of filling the city's authority with real powers, we need to look at it in a comprehensive way and not play political games. Because kyans are stupid people, they see it all very well, and they make their own conclusions. I think that Kyiv, who made this revolution or not in the first place, deserved to be heard, he deserved to have a city head with authority, and he deserved to be chosen by the community in two rounds. I think this position will support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u54	If you'll excuse me, we're not going to do this right now. It's one minute, you're going to show for three minutes. I ask Vyacheslav Kirilenka, I see all hands, ladies. And I will give to the people's deputy the Orobac, and the Jaborite, and the Giurabs. And I can't give Rudzkowski one either. Guys, right now the whole room is gonna be, Kiev is an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u55	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!"Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I want to repeat what I said yesterday from this rostrum. If we're going to adopt these bills, that's when Kiev won't start. Because they will begin when we do not offer archaic systems of local self - government and government. Thus, in most major capitals of Europe and the world, there is a system in which direct elections of the city’s head, government functions, and council functions are foreseen. And the city head and the head of government, and whoever presides at board meetings, are different positions and different figures. So the way to concentration of powers in one hand is the old answer to new challenges. Although this old answer does not provide a question of the vast number of competences that are copied in one hand and do not solve the issue of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u57	Corruption, when all three positions in Kiev meet in one hand. So I propose, and Fatherland also announced this position yesterday, to go back to the bill, which is foreseen in the rehabilitation package of reforms. If I'm not mistaken, 4289. The city’s head, the city’s head, the city’s head, and the city’s head, is a completely different person who is in charge of maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u58	I see. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Robber, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u59	Good health, fellow believers! We trusted the Chinese when we asked them to come and support us when it was most difficult when we stormed Midan, when we had to feed, shelter, hide, and rescue. I think we have someone to rely on, and we can trust the Chinese to run our own city. And the least they'd like to expect is that when they came on May 25th, they chose, not a mayor, but a leader of the Kyiv Council. Kiev is a city looted, pillaged systematically over the last few years. There's no money in the budget, there's no problem. And the way that we're going to have to go for everyone who's more likely to be a mayor is to restore trust in Kiev's self-government and try to unite the Chinese and, together with the Chinese, solve most of the problems that there's not yet any possibility of being alone in the state. But in order to restore trust, at least one thing has to be done: to cleanse Kiev of corruption. Please tell me, a man with the authority of only the Chief of the Kyiv Council can take.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u60	Let me finish. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u61	could he assume the responsibility of cleansing Kiev from corruption? You want to compromise? Let's compromise -- two tours and a unified position. And then the Chinese will choose the full measure that they deserve, not the stage that they were four years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u62	National Deputy Zharavsky. I feel so strongly that the people’s MP Rudzkowski also wanted to propose this. Yes or no? Well, I read your thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, if we take sociological research carried out in the last five years by leading sociological companies, most of these polls show that the cynics are to unite two positions, the mayor and heads of the Kyiv City State Administration. If we are talking about decentralization and the expansion of local self - government, giving it more rights, then these positions should be united. So I voted in person yesterday and today I'm going to vote in favour of the Vitali Calla project it's the right one. The adoption of this bill will allow order in the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u64	Thank you. Let's give it to the Yavorowski People's Deputy and we'll make a decision. I can't do Rudzkowski either.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I think it's perfectly clear to everyone that it's from Kiev that all the fluids go from the capital to Ukraine: both political, and economic, and psychological, whatever. It's absolutely clear that there should be one single host in the city -- strong, independent of any side effects, but dependent on the Ukrainian community. Because the Klicka bill he introduced is real, normal, and we'll put it in the Constitution. But we need to solve this question now, because I would suggest such a soft compromise, I think it would be very normal for us to have a two-track vote and we'll have a beautiful 50+1 votes of the owner of the city that will have in his fist, in his head will have all the existing power. I think this is the only thing that compromises. And Alexander Valentine's Day, I went up to this rostrum for one more reason, the situation in Kiev today is only three heads of the regime approved. You can see for yourself that the election of the city is actually decapitated.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u67	I conclude, because of this, all the submissions that have been made by the mayors of Kiev have been stuck somewhere, and we have a responsibility for these people, full responsibility. Please expedite the appointment of the heads of the district administrations in Kiev, for they are the reason for all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u68	National MP Rudzkowski and I see a compromise decision. Victor, I think you'll be able to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I refer to the coalition to most of the non-fractional, honourable colleagues, we vote in favour of your bills, because we understand that we need to support the government, we need to maintain stability in the state. But I'm addressing you, my honourable colleagues, when it came to the question of whether to vote in two rounds, we voted, some people don't vote. The proposal to unify is now being tabled — the majority is voting again. Dear colleagues, you're arguing right now, you're sharing authority in Kiev at a time when the country is collapsing. Now that we're being killed in the East, when we're losing the country's integrity. The same was true when you formed a government. You formed a government, shared chairs, and lost Crimea because you shared positions. I'm talking to you. Get order between you. Make the only offer for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I only want to comment. To form a government, we must have representatives in all positions. And without that, the government can't work. And without a government, a country can't work. So let us objectively select these for our presentations and statements. I, my dear colleagues, offer, Victor Mikhailovich, I think we will support it. Come on, Victor Mikhailovich, and we'll make a decision. Colleagues. I can't see, honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! How can we make sure that the system does not have a leader, no one answered for anything, and no one interfered with the other? It's to create two bosses. Two institutions of executive power are headed by two individuals in Kiev, unfortunately not only in Kiev. But I want to talk about Kiev. The head of administration and the elected community of city heads to perform executive functions, he was given authority. That's ridiculous. There are two teams that are designed to interfere with each other. And you'll never find the extreme. And frankly, the problem that has been solved is not worth eating an egg. I don't understand what the discussion is about. Unfortunately, we cannot solve this problem properly. Right in Kiev there must be no head of administration. This is a community that should have a elected mayor. But we can't solve this for a simple reason -- because it's a change in the Constitution. Therefore, it is quite obvious that this is the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u72	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u73	In order not to produce a duodenum, head. the elected community of mayors is to be granted the status of the Kiev head of administration. Then we'll change the Constitution and we'll take back the rules for heads of administration. But I suggest to my colleagues that this question needs a solution, and don’t tie other issues to it. I propose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u74	The People's Deputy Paul, and let's take the risk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please don't bully!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u75	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished fellow MPs! The Kiev Head Election Act is certainly a very important law. That's all. The ruling coalition has not spoken of this for the first day, not the first month. But I have a huge request to my fellow MPs: vote honestly on the Law on the Election of the City of Kiev. If you have 300 members of the coalition, then gather them. I can't help but notice that the media are already in the room, so let's do without the buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u76	Thanks for the offer. Dear colleagues, I have an initiative for you. I support the suggestions that have been made here: we need to make a decision on both the question of pooling positions and the question of holding a two - way election. And just so there's no resistance here, I'm going to ask my colleagues at the Parliamentary Secretariat to legally formulate how we're going to be able to vote on these two issues tomorrow. And I'm convinced that we're going to find votes in this option, and we're going to make a decision that is being insisted on by some people and other national MPs. So so that we don't ruin this important question, because I see I can now put five votes again, but I don't see any votes in the room. Tomorrow, I am sure that we will resolve the matter. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. Dear colleagues, the draft Act on Amendments to the Laws on the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children and the Employment of the Population Act (as regards the Status of Refugees). Deputy Minister of Social Policy Ivankevich. While he is going to the parliamentary rostrum, please support the consideration of this issue by means of a reduced procedure. [[13:30:16.]] For-173 Decision taken. "For" is 173 votes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill of the Ukrainian Act amending the laws of Ukraine: "On the Fundamentals of Social Protection of Homeless Persons and Homeless Children" and "On Employment of the Population". The proposed bill is designed to implement a visa liberalisation plan for Ukraine with the European Union and to organise processes related to the integration of foreigners and stateless persons with decisions on the drafting of documents on the recognition of a refugee or a person in need of additional protection. In particular, the bill proposes employment to the Ukrainian employer by cancelling for such a person for obtaining permission to apply the work of foreigners. To date, employers are paying the State Employment Service some 4,000 dollars for each employed foreigner. And to create access to housing for these people in a manner defined as for homeless citizens, in accordance with the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Persons and Homeless Children, if they do not have their own housing or the ability to rent it. In the first place, this refers to the possibility of their registration at work facilities with homeless citizens. The adoption of this bill is another step towards a visa-free regime with the EU. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please. You finished the report, didn't you? Thank you. Thank you. Please, National Deputy Dry of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, this bill, which was tabled on March 26th of this year by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk, is particularly relevant right now. It is designed to take account of the proposal of the regional representative office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine for payment for the granting of work permits for foreigners and stateless persons who have decided to draft a document to resolve the issue of recognition by a refugee or a person in need of additional protection and to provide assistance to homeless persons who have no residence. Today, this is a matter of concern, for we see in Ukraine people whom we have the right and will call refugees. The adoption of this bill will give us an opportunity to strengthen the social protection of refugees who need additional or temporary protection, including the Deputy Minister, foreigners and stateless persons who are not only legally resident but also present in Ukraine, will be able to obtain assistance in homes for homeless persons. Colleagues, I'm showing you this bill. It consists of four sentences. Four sentences. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? None. One minute, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. Please. I ask the secretariat to announce to the deputies that the vote is now, let them come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I really am one minute. In support of this bill, why? Yesterday we talked about what are the three bills that we adopted yesterday in the first reading, which are clearly defined as necessary for the transition from the first legislative to the second implementation phase of the liberalisation format for the visa regime of Ukraine to the European Union. In fact, this is the fourth bill that is necessary for this. And the question is that the additional protection of the people who are in Ukraine and who have come here as refugees who are forming documents as refugees is also a requirement for the transition to the second-implementation phase of the liberalisation regime with the European Union. So this is a very important bill, even though there are only four lines. In general, it is worth voting on today as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I'm in favour of voting it out as a whole right now, but I don't see that possibility right now. I want to ask you when the opposition will support it. Alexander Sergiyovich, are we going to support the homeless or are we not going to vote now? We'll support it. Let's go then, I ask everyone to sit in their jobs, your esteemed colleagues, and let's all press the buttons together. Then we have the opportunity to resolve our homeless issues, especially those of the homeless. Please, Your Honor, sit down and uphold this law as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues! There's a meeting, I beg of you, dear colleagues, please take your seats. I can see if I can vote. Mr. Yavorowski! I'm asking you, colleagues, we don't vote on the law if we don't all mobilize now. Come on, this is important. Homeless children – what could be scarier for the country? We are obliged to resolve their questions. Please, on the basis and in general. Bill 4574. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. [[13:36:34]] For-198 Dear colleagues! Well, that's not a serious question. I know we can't make it, but I only see 198 votes. The factions, please. 19 – "Regions", 69 – "Paternality", 24 – "Abrasion", 24 – "Economic development", 13 – "Sovereign Ukraine", 27 – "Freedom", 0 – Company, non-fractional – 22. Please turn on the microphone for the Tomenka People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u83	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! We are aware that many MPs are thinking about the results of our closed session and are preparing for committee meetings, because as compromises are now proposed to listen in a short procedure to all the bills, and to vote in favour of this bill tomorrow, and for the rest of the bills, so that we don't delay the consideration of the bills, we will go through them, but when the session room is assembled, then tomorrow, by voting, we will determine the fate of these bills. Therefore, I propose that the following be considered in a brief manner and that we vote on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u84	This is absolutely necessary. Offer supported. Dear colleagues, do we agree with the offer of Nikola Volodymyrovich? I'm also supporting it so that very important laws can be taken into account so that we don't destroy them right now with you and the absence of deputies in the hall. I'm asking you, Your Honor, then we'll consider a few more laws under a reduced procedure. The only thing I have to do is make an announcement. I'm sorry I didn't do it in the morning. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary group "Economic Development" of 8 April 2014, we report on the election of the deputy heads of the "Economic Development" group of the national deputies Mironek Mikhail Ivanovich and Filippenka Vladimir Pilipovich. Please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to discuss this with you. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:38:54]] For-151 Decision taken. Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, since we're just talking today, I'm not going to be able to take time. The whole point of this bill is that we're going back to the law that it used to be. Because today the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio can only be retired in one case if the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not accept the National Council of Ukraine Report on Television and Radio. You know what kind of conflict we have right now. The point is that the current acting president may not accept this report, but he cannot, according to the Constitution, appoint members of the Nacrada, for the Constitution applies this rule exclusively to the powers of the President of Ukraine. Instead, our section, the Supreme Council, did not accept the National Council of Ukraine report on television and radio. The bill by my authorship, as well as Mikola Tomenka and Igor Miroshničnka, was passed a year ago. He listened to the committee and was supported by the committee. It is based on the fact that the subject of submission, or Supreme Council, is entitled to resign from the four members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. The bill itself, as I said before, has been heard with the committee. I would just like to fill it in with two parts of my voice that have not been counted before. The first says that the powers assigned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to members of the National Council, which are part of the National Council, are expressed in distrust by the Supreme Council Order of 28.02.2014 on non-trust expressed by the National Council for Television and Broadcasting as a result of the 2013 report, are suspended as soon as it becomes effective by this law. I mean, if we adopt this law, we have the ability to stop the parliamentary mandate of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio, and to start a competition to elect new members on television and radio at least from Parliament. Because the National Council isn't actually working right now. We're in military conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u86	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u87	But the National Council does not always have a quorum. And a second addition. This addition was made by the wish of the Head of the Supreme Council at the Conciliation Council to shorten this competition, resulting from the situation that is, from 21 days as it is now in law, to 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u88	I got the offer. From the committee, please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I think we will decide tomorrow on this bill. Because it's been a long story since 2006. Victor Yushchenk was then advised to have full control of the information space. And it was suggested that a model that had been previously cleared, I think, was an effective model to link responsibility for the National Council's activities solely with the President's decision. So it looks like a wild situation. That we as a parliament have authority, that we form half of the National Television and Radio Council, we control them, we listen to reports. And for example, in case, not at any time, but in case, in the outcome of the report, when we see that these people are not working in the interests of law and information security and defence, we can't do anything until the President accepts, he won't let us resign those we've assigned. So this is contrary to the general doctrine of the mission of parliament, and the constitutional model in which we are in it. We're such a bill, corrected, we've already adopted it. But then he was voted over 300 votes, and then the President didn't sign it. We're going back to him again, because it's very obvious that Parliament should be responsible for its part of the job, the President, for his part of the job, and then there's competition inside this higher regulator. So we're actually going back, we're not coming up with anything, we're going to go back to the information space until 2006, and we're going to be able to announce the competition and finally update the situation, and we're going to make the National Council for Television and Radio talk working. Alexander Valentinovich, please put the vote to the vote tomorrow. And we're going to clarify what Princey said in "Transitional positions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, I see two hands. Come on, national deputy Yavorowski, out of the way. Miroshenko, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Vladimir Yavorowski, Troastina We know very well with you that the National Council has become such a bread and nest for colossal simple corruption, and all of our efforts to enlighten and get there, and to see what's really going on there, actually ended up nothing. For many years there have been discussions about this subject, but generally before the adoption of the legislative act, the legalization of this transparency has not been with you. Finally, the Committee on Freedom of Speech, which is headed by Mikola Tomenko, finally, dared once again to go to the session, to go to the national MPs with this bill that can really, I'm not saying that until the end, but sometimes at least solve this problem when we have representatives both from the President and from the Supreme Council. And there's really going to be a competitive environment. And by the way, there are really ways to solve it. Because I support that idea, we understand perfectly that there are no votes in the Supreme Council right now, they're somewhere else. Some, indeed, are tired of the burden of information, while others are tired of something else. Because of that, Alexander Valentinovich, I am convinced that we need today, who wants to take the floor, to speak, but to vote tomorrow and to do everything possible to make this vote effective. I believe so.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, MPs, national deputy Glazunov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u93	Thank you. I'd like to read the findings of the Science and Technology Administration on this issue, and I'd like you to pay attention, and tomorrow you're going to vote, and you can read again. Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting defines the status of the National Council as constitutional. The National Council has a statutory special status other than the status of other executive bodies, which excludes the possibility of its members being released for indefinite reasons. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 20, and article 106, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine appoint a corresponding half of the composition of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. At the same time, the Constitution does not grant them powers to release or suspend the powers of individual members of the National Council. Given that the powers of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine are determined solely by the Constitution of Ukraine, to which the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly pointed, we believe that the changes proposed in this part are unacceptable. Logically, the position of the bill is not consistent. On the basis of the above, the head office believes that the changes to the Ukrainian Act "On the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting" cannot be supported. So please take into account the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, the Constitution of Ukraine, when tomorrow you will vote and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u95	Igor Miroshnichenko, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion that was drawn by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration a year ago. This was the time when we had a king in Medjugorje with gold bars who had unlimited authority and thought that the National Council on Television and Radio as well as any other government body was his personal property. He managed them manually. Today, as has been rightly pointed out, we have moved to another Constitution where we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. And the Parliament, which has the authority and the right to appoint four members of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting, is perfectly logical, must have the right and the right to release these members. It is absurd and totally unacceptable when the Supreme Council, in which the national constituencies elected by all the people, may appoint members of the Nacrad, but they have no influence on the National Council on Television and Radio. What is the National Council on Television and Radio? This is a regulator that controls one of the most important and crucial issues of national security -- national information space. Today we talk about it all the time. It is occupied and does not belong entirely to Ukraine. It is for the Supreme Council to effectively influence the National Television and Radio Council, which is to carry out its constitutional duties, that we have the right of national deputies to return. So I would certainly urge all the deputies to vote tomorrow. Well, at the end of the day, I want to remind all the MPs who are now absent from parliament that Parliament will work not one day a week and not only in the morning when everyone is meeting to register and then get paid, but it works for five days. That is why we need to go to meetings and vote on an operational basis, not wait for the votes to come together. Because we were chosen by the electorate to work in Parliament instead of sitting around our pants and deciding our own issues. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. I see that the same MPs work in Parliament and the same MPs do some more important things. Let's make the registration no matter how much for the salary, not how much for the registration in the hall, but basically at two o'clock, how many cards and deputies are there. And how many deputies are there at 18 hours. And that's what the real registration is going to be. Not as many cards as are installed, but as many deputies. I'm going to ask the Secretariat to just fix this. No objections? There's no objection. Please, Your Honor. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u97	I'd like to turn around. Unfortunately, there is no opposition here in the session room right now, but if you had been able to profile drafts, the opposition would have realized that, first of all, this bill would be good for you, because it's obvious that under today's conditions, the Kremlin's stand will never win the presidential election, and in any case, the opposition will have an impact on the appointment of the Nacrada. And it's obvious that you should vote first in favour of this bill, which allows the Supreme Council to release its "four" and also appoint its "four". In fact, the bill strengthens the role and functions of the Supreme Council. With regard to the findings of the scientific management. It is quite obvious that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not exempt members of the Nakrad because they do not like the partying of members of the Nakrad because they must be non-partisan and professional. They don't like anything else. We have legislation that defines the only reason for the liberation of the Nakrad is the adoption or the non-admission of the annual report. If the National Council worked properly and the Supreme Council accepted their report, let them keep working. If it worked shamefully, corruptly, unprofilely in this information space, we don't take their report and we can then change these members of the Nacra. It's okay. That's why we call, in fact, for changes in the Constitution of Ukraine, that we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, for the second to take care of the strengthening of the functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the third to take care of the information space, for the fourth to take care of the functions of the opposition. It was you who did not give the opportunity for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament any representative of the opposition to enter the Nakrad. Now the other thing that we're talking about is that we're proposing to strengthen the functions of the Nacrada and to get representatives, not members of the parties, out of the civil space. And now Baranov works there, who was the director of the garbage collection plant. We propose to strengthen the Nakrad professionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u98	I see. Thank you. Please, the Zarubinsky People's Deputy. I see hands, come on, I see two more hands. And Olez Donyy, and Alexander Sergiyovich, you will also perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear Alexander Valentinovich! The question here is not that there should be competition inside Nakrada on radio and television, as suggested. The question is not that another statement suggested that the bill or law be of benefit to some political power. The question is that today there is a fundamental systemic error in the form of appointment and release of people in Nacrad. Look what's going on. We're talking about the parliamentary-presidential, Presidential-Parliamentary Republic. These are forms of government. And that should not depend on the substance of the distribution between branches of power, the distribution of power into branches. What do you mean? Look. If the Supreme Council has the authority to appoint and release its half, if its half of the members of the National Council, then the President cannot, on his own merits, by the system of distribution of authority to different branches give "good" or "not good" to what is the mandate of the Supreme Council. This is a systemic fundamental error that exists today. And to eliminate this systemic error is the task of all deputies, no matter how it was told to whom it was convenient or not. Because we have to work professionally. And one more moment. Alexander Valentinovich, I wanted to see you. And it's easy to do that, because both to the Supreme Council head and to the acting president of Ukraine. Now, Mr. Knieżicki said that today the National Radio and Television Council is not actually working, there is no quorum. What does that mean? They are government officials. They cannot sabotage or sabotage, come or not. They are not chosen by men. They are appointed. They're officials. And so in a situation where they simply don't show up for work on purpose, sabotaged it on purpose or not, I think there should be disciplinary matters in relation to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u100	Thank you. National Deputy Donny. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u101	Good afternoon. Although there are some warnings from experts that making this decision will weaken the status of members of the National Council, but in this situation it is obvious that it is appropriate to accept this, because it is obvious that sabotage, which is not even to some extent from members of the Nacrada, but from the economic structures behind these members of the Nacrada is not acceptable. And I took the word from another point of view, not just excited, but outraged by the fact that Russian television channels in Donetsk, Luhansk region had once again turned on Russian television channels that openly promoted Ukrainian phobia and fascist rhetoric in Ukraine. Regrettably, neither the Broadcasting Board nor the Broadcasting Board are able to eliminate the licenses of these providers. And I would like to point out that these district administrations or city heads that allow really help the invaders of Ukraine, in this regard, I ask that my address be addressed to the prosecutor's office. And Mr. Attorney General, I would like to point out that fascist propaganda is unacceptable on the side of these Russian television channels, and to address their illegal involvement in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. If Nakrad can't put an end to this, please let the Attorney General handle it.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u102	Thank you. The national deputy of Ephraim, please, and we will conclude the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Valentinovich! When I hear our colleagues say, maybe you're moving everyone, you'll put the list right away, you've got 80 people in the Attorney-General's Office on the list that need to be punished, and you'll put all the deputies from the Party of Regions and Residents who live in the East of Ukraine on the list. What about those people who are crying in front of their eyes today, asking for May 9 parades to be broadcast on TV channels, what to do with them? Do they have a memory or do they have a conscience? Or do they have the privilege of taking it away? Now for the next moment. We're being raised here because we're giving the right of opposition today, to do something, what right do you give? In the previous Government, everyone was criticized, both in the tail and in the mane, both the Government and the President, and so on. You've put in such complete control of the media today that they'll be terrified. Now for the next moment. You fired in Luhansk, which you're not defending, if you're so fair, you fired the head of the regional television channel, Miroshnik, who made the best television channel in Ukraine. The best he's done! You only fired him on the principle that he was a member of the Party of Regions, and for that he should be illustrated in his workplace. So be good, if you're saying something, so be honest with yourself: one said yesterday, the other said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2014-04-16-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the national deputy of Opanaschenko will move on? Don't insist. Thank you. No, he insists. Colleagues, come on, I'd like us to be just another law, let's take a look. We're in the middle of something here, my friends. And this is no longer a reduced procedure, this is a complete procedure. Do you understand? I'd like us to go through the daytime anyway. Guys, come on! Dear colleagues, we have a question on the second reading, 0991. 0921, I'm sorry. The Packaan National Deputy will let you know, and tomorrow we'll make a decision. Valerius Vasilovich, very briefly. Dear colleagues, it's not. We'll make a decision from Nakrad too tomorrow, I hope, and in second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, there'll be a vote tomorrow. Let us know so that we don't waste our time. Will we inform tomorrow? Let's get some information tomorrow. Yeah, let's get some information tomorrow. Dear colleagues, we have yet to reconsider the President's proposals. We can't vote now either, because we need the President's proposal first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Please, you want to take the floor, don't you? Please, Sergei. Sergei. You can do it tomorrow. There's no discussion here, there's a re-examination of the President's proposals. You'll inform tomorrow, and then I'll give you a chance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Absolutely. All of it. Dear colleagues, we have discussed practically all the questions. After some of them, we'll make decisions tomorrow. I appeal to all national deputies to be in my workplace and to work in accordance with the Law and the Constitution. Today we will finish our work and continue it on the Committees of the Supreme Council. And the plenary session will continue tomorrow, at 10 a.m. Good-bye!
